

=== You Will Give Presentations Without Reading to People ===


--- Presentation Skills - Advanced Speak Without Reading Notes promo ---

We'll just love to be one of those speakers who can stand up, command the room, walk around the stage
and speak without notes or seemingly without notes for half an hour, 40 minutes, an hour.
That's what spells out real leadership.
Those are the people who get all the great reviews where the reporter says and he or she spoke without
notes for an hour.
Hi, I'm TJ Walker and I'm a presentation coach.
I've been working with leaders, CEOs, political figures for the last 30 years, and I can teach you
the secret of how to speak in front of small groups or large groups without notes, or at least appear
to be speaking without notes.
If you're interested in this, sign up right now.

--- Become the Speaker That Audiences Look at In Awe ---

I could be.
So why would anyone even want to be able to speak without notes?
Why do you want to be able to speak without notes?
I think it's because when we think of the best speakers we've ever seen in our lives, they seem to
be just sharing with us.
They're just talking to us, they're having a conversation with us.
They aren't reading notes like this as if they were reading the phone book.
They're not ignoring us.
They don't seem like robots just going through the motions.
That's the problem with reading a script.
Could be a well written speech.
But if your head is down and you're speaking in the same tone, the same volume, the same speech,
or even if you're using a teleprompter and everything is just right, there's something mechanical about
it.
And public speaking is one of these things where it's an intimate I don't mean your clothes come off,
but it's an intimate act.
It's a personal act.
You're there in the room with someone.
You can see the speaker.
The speaker can see you.
And that's why things like staring at notes or staring at a script or getting behind the lectern and
looking at the notes the whole time.
It just destroys the intimacy of it.
When you see a speaker who seems to be looking right at you, talking to you, saying you get it, asking
you a question, it dramatically changes the whole relationship between the audience member and the
speaker.
It's much more powerful and that's why I believe it's a great idea for you to aspire to be speaking
without notes, or at least to be seen as speaking without notes.
But let's step back for a minute.
Why do people want to use notes or a script when they're giving a speech?
Because I'm scared.
I'm nervous.
I'll forget what to say if I don't have my crutch here, if I don't have my notes to read the whole
time, I'll not know what to say or I better have my PowerPoint slide.
That way I can relax and not to worry about forgetting anything or leaving anything out.
I can just go through all the bullet points.
That's the logic people use and it's fundamentally flawed logic.
It's virtually impossible to develop a reputation of being a great speaker, a commanding speaker.
If you're always reading notes.
Yes, there are exceptions and there are certain presidents who have refined the act of reading a teleprompter
so well.
They still really connect with people.
But for most people in business, in government and academia, we don't have a teleprompter at our disposal
all the time.
It's either we speak to people directly or we have a combination of script and notes and our head is
buried.
That's the choice.
Well, I'm here to tell you there is something in between, and it's a way of speaking to an audience
where you appear not to be using notes, but it's not going to involve a teleprompter.
It's not going to involve an app on your cell phone with a little teleprompter app like that, because
that would be so annoying to people.
And that's the only thing they would talk about.
Now, there are certainly techniques you can use to trigger your memory.
Okay, here's the first concept I have, and it's like a Christmas tree ornament.
I'm walking into my house and here's the Christmas tree.
There's all sorts of word associations to help you memorize it.
If you can do that, great.
You don't need to be in this course.
I've always found those memory techniques to be really difficult.
Extraordinarily disciplined is what that's the approach you need if you're going to do the whole memorization
thing.
I think that's hard.
I'm going to give you an easy, easy solution to how to appear to be speaking without notes.
But before we do that, I want you to think of a topic that you're going to give a speech on.
Think of the topic and start brainstorming on ideas you want to convey on this topic.
And then we're going to hop right in and I'll share with you the magic.


=== Great Presentation Structure Makes for Easy Delivery ===


--- Please Introduce Yourself ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Practice Only Makes Perfect if You Practice the Right Way ===


--- Give Your Memory a Break With This Tip - Focus on 5 Points ---

Before we talk about the solution of how to speak without notes, we got to talk about the problem.
What's causing this problem in the first place of people feeling the need to have everything written
out in a script or PowerPoint.
But you know what?
If you're absolutely just dying to find out what the solution is.
Fast forward or just skip to the next lecture.
I am telling it there.
But before we do that, I want to delve into the problem before we go to the solution.
The problem for most speakers is they feel they need this crutch of the whole written speech or six
pages of outline notes or bullet point after bullet point on a PowerPoint because they have a fundamental
bad idea, fundamentally warped idea of what a speech is.
They think the speech is an opportunity to tell some audience everything they know about the subject,
and they end up giving a massive data dump.
That's not how the brain processes information or remembers information.
So because of that, people spend all this time gathering, gathering, gathering lots of facts, lots
of numbers, lots of data points, cramming it into a PowerPoint slide or a written speech, that is
not at all how human beings speak.
Therefore, the speaker has to like have their head down or turning their back to you and looking at
the PowerPoint slides.
So that's what causes the destruction of eye contact with the audience.
As we've gone into this with a fundamentally misguided notion of what a speech, what a presentation
is, I'll tell you what a presentation is.
It's an opportunity to put a spotlight on a few ideas and get people in an audience to understand the
ideas, remember the ideas to possibly act on them.
And when I say a few ideas, I mean a few.
I've been coaching CEOs, political leaders, executives all over the world for 30 years, large groups,
small groups giving speeches on the subject.
First thing I ask every audience I work with is tell me about the best speaker you've seen in the last
year or the last five years.
Now, tell me every message point you remember from that speaker.
Sometimes people don't remember anything.
Sometimes I'll say, Well, teach, I remember this one point.
The speaker had passion and then he went on to really explain every aspect and then give me the point.
Sometimes it's two, occasionally three.
Every so often somebody will remember four points, and once every six months someone will remember
five key ideas from the best speaker they've seen in the last year, perhaps the last ten years.
And all of the years I've asked that question, I've never had anyone remember more than five ideas.
And yet, what do 99% of the speakers I see professional speakers, people in senior jobs in major corporations.
What do they do when they come up to practice their speech with me?
They have a speech, often a PowerPoint.
The first slide, there's 18 bullet points.
The next slide, there's four columns.
The next slide there is a chart with a graph with eight different color coded squiggly lines.
And I we say the same thing.
Well, Jane, you're telling me the best speaker you've seen in your entire life, you remember three
points and now your presentation has roughly 189 points.
Do you see the disconnect here?
You have a tie.
This audience is different.
And our corporate culture, Jane, I don't mean any disrespect to you or anyone else here, but I don't
care about your corporate culture.
The only culture I care about is the culture of your audience of what actually works.
And that's my challenge to you, to regardless of how you speak, you've got to look at the audience,
what they need and what they want and what actually works for them.
I don't have any evidence whatsoever that getting up and presenting fact after fact after fact, bullet
point after bullet point after bullet point number after number actually works.
And by work I mean the audience hears it, understands it, and remembers it.
Now, you can doubt me, but that's fine.
Test your audience next time.
See what they remember.
If they can't remember your fact, your bullet point, it didn't work.
So before I give you the big, big solution, we've got to come up with a better structure of our speech.
What I have found is the absolute best structure for 99.9% of the speakers out there in the world is
brainstorm on all the things you want to say on this topic.
Narrow it down to five.
Not five big themes and 27 sub points or even three set points, but five big ideas.
And then you need to come up with a story, a case study for each one.
If you can't think of a single story or case study to flesh out your major point, let's not be too
major.
Get rid of the point.
Abstraction is the enemy of your audience.
If you can't flesh out your concept with visuals, with examples, with case studies, with stories
involving conversations with real people, your audience is not going to remember.
So that's why it's crucial for you to end up with a simple outline.
Five message points, a story or two for each message point.
And if there's a number or two, let's put that number on the outline.
I will teach you.
I have to go through every single number.
Are you certain you do?
If you're going through quarterly results and people really want to know what every single store sold
every week for the last quarter and you have 2723 stores in the entire world, Give that as a handout
in advance of the email it to people, have it ready to talk about if someone ask a question.
But you do not have to go through all 2000 plus stores.
So that's the next assignment for you.
Right now, I need you to come up with a streamlined outline so you can either look at us previous speech
that you wrote and condense it or come up with a new one.
But I need you to come up with a speech that has five message points.
And a message point should be ten words or less, ideally like three or four words, something that
just gives you a sense of what the topic is.
And then an example, a story or two or even three stories to flesh out that idea, something that gives
you a roadmap for the speech and then tell you what to do with this.
And it doesn't involve a magical earpiece.
And as much as I love technology and every kind of iPad and iPhone, it's not going to involve an app
or technology or a cell phone.
It's not going to involve a teleprompter.
I'll show you what it involves in just a moment.
But first, I need you to come up with that outline.
Do it now.


=== You Will Never Be Seen Reading a Script or PowerPoint Slide Again ===


--- You Can Use a cheat Sheet, Ethically! ---

So are you ready for the big magic?
A drum roll, please.
Here is the secret to speaking without notes, or at least appearing to be speaking without notes.
It's to have notes, but it's to have.
Hold on before you ask for your money back.
It's to have notes in a very specific way.
This is an hour speech that I recently gave in Mexico City.
It's got five big points and it's got a few words to remind you of stories and examples to remind me
of stories and examples for each one.
Now, this is I mean, here's a normal sheet of paper.
So this is about half the size of the piece of paper.
Here is why I'm able to use this and appear as though I'm not using notes.
It's on a single sheet of paper, so no one ever sees me picking it up and turning the pages.
So that's one way I'm able to trick people.
The second step, I made much larger font and you can see it's large font.
I don't have to put my glasses on.
If it's normal font on a piece of paper, I have to sort of stop and do this.
And we've all seen people do that when they're giving speeches.
But because I took 2 seconds to make the font larger, I don't have to put on my glasses.
So that's a part of it now.
My first message point is, number one problem, boring.
I'm talking I'm giving a speech about public speaking.
So that's only three words, Really?
Well, there's symbols I guess you could claim that's for but very few words.
So I'm not tempted to sort of start the speech with.
Well, the number one problem people have is being bored.
I can simply glance at it.
It reminds me of what I want to say and I can now talk to people.
So that's the key, is you've got to streamline it.
Very few words so that it keeps you on track.
And then I've got stories underneath.
I just put Prime Minister of Slovenia because that reminds me of the story I'm going to tell about the
time I was training the the prime minister of Slovenia.
And he videotaped himself.
We videotaped them together.
I asked him to tell me what he thought after watching his speech, and he said, I'm really boring.
I wouldn't want to watch me.
And I said, You're right, Mr. Prime Minister.
And it went on to be an eye opening moment for him to tear up his speech and start over, the very same
as I'm doing with you.
So I only need a few words there to remind me of stories.
You have stories in you too.
I don't care if you sell boring widgets.
At some point you're going to talk to a widget customer about how the old widget didn't work as well
and the problem you had and how it was solved.
So the beauty of a single sheet of paper is you're not touching it.
You make the large font and you don't have to pick it up.
The other thing that requires practice is you need to get comfortable with this so that you can walk
around and sort of know when you're finishing and then glance at it and look up.
Because if you're finishing one thing and then it's it's too quick, it's too jerky, it's calling attention
to itself.
Now, one technique I like to use is.
Putting the glass down right next to my notes.
But it appears as though I'm just putting my glass down so nobody ever sees quick eye movement.
Now, I'm no magician, folks, but at some level, this is what magicians do.
They are causing misdirection.
Now, I'm not doing anything to say, Look over here while I look at my notes.
It's not like that.
But I'm not trying to call attention to this thing here.
Now, here's the next big tip on how to not look like you're using notes.
Don't stand behind the classic lectern.
If you stand right behind a lectern and you put your notes right there, even if you aren't looking
at them very often, people are going to assume you are because that's what people do when they read
boring speeches and read their notes all the time.
They stand behind the lectern and it's moving and they're looking down.
So that begs the question, Teacher Well, where do you put your notes?
I wouldn't hold them in my hands if I were you.
I would place them on a table quite often.
You'll have a table in a room where you're speaking, and it might be where your glass of water is.
So keep that in mind.
Now, if you have a lectern, there's a place to stand right behind it.
Don't stand behind it.
So if this is the lectern, most people would have their notes like this.
What I do is I turn my notes sideways.
Now I can stand over here, be walking by, my eyes, can scoop up, look at the notes.
But I'm looking at people.
You know what, friends?
I love technology, I love PowerPoint, I love video, I love apps.
This friend has never asked for electricity.
This friend has never complained about malware or a virus.
This friend has never had a bowl burnout and tell me it's not going to work.
That's the beauty of good old fashioned paper and people aren't expecting it.
Maybe you are using PowerPoint, that's fine, but you can just use images.
Now.
You're not going to put your notes for the whole world to see.
Your notes are for right here.
This is just for you.
Don't tell anyone you're using it.
Now, I never speak without notes, but I never tell anyone I'm using notes till the very end.
And the response is always the same from people.
I had no idea you were using notes.
Because I like to remind people my memory is horrible.
I have no idea what is next in a speech or a presentation.
I certainly don't want to stay up late the night before practicing again and again and again.
Rehearsing, memorizing.
That's hard work.
I'd rather relax, have a glass of wine.
So I'm not going to ask you to practice and rehearse memorizing till midnight if I'm not willing to
do it.
You don't need to.
If you have notes now, if you're telling me.
Well, TJ, I tried that.
I couldn't get it to one page.
I had to put it on two pages.
That tells me you've done a very poor job of putting things in priority.
So much of being a great presenter has nothing to do with your voice or your eyes or your hands.
It has to do with being a better editor.
If you can't edit your speech.
To a single sheet of paper with large font.
You have not done a good enough job editing.
Therefore, your speech is probably going to be an awful failure because it's going to be a boring data
dump because you're giving people to much stuff.
So that's your homework assignment Right now.
I need you to come up with a single sheet of paper and it should fit on a half a sheet of paper.
And this is an hour speech.
So if you're giving a ten minute speech, you should have a lot fewer bullet points on there.
I'm going to show you even more advanced techniques of how to use this to trick and fool your audience
to an even greater extent so that they're going to walk out of this room swearing that you were just
talking to them off the top of your head adlibbing because you're so passionate about this subject.
And really you're going to be using notes the entire time, but come up with your outline right now
and I'll give you even more advanced tips.


=== Other Housekeeping Issues ===


--- Instant Answers to Your Advance Speaking Skill Questions ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Planning for Ultimate Public Speaking Success - The Fundamentals ===


--- Walk the Room as If You Own the Room ---

Now I want to share with you a really advanced tip.
I say advance.
Anybody could do it.
A five year old child could do this.
And yet very few speakers ever do.
By now, you should have on a single sheet of paper, ideally a half sheet your notes for your entire
speech, your five main ideas or fewer, a few facts, a number you need for each one and a word or
two to remind you of the story.
The example you want to tell.
Cut it out so that it's not even using a full sheet of paper.
It can now sit down on the table in front of you on the lectern if you want.
Now, here's the advanced technique.
This probably cost you $0.02 for a piece of paper.
Make two or three more copies.
Now I want you to walk around the room where you're going to give the speech before anyone else shows
up and place your script strategically in different places.
So, for example, some classrooms might have a long, narrow table, 30 feet long in front of the teacher
or the speaking place.
Put one on one end, one on another.
You can have some a table in the whole back of the room where there's a TV.
You could put one there, put these strategically around the room.
Guess what that let you do.
You can be looking at the script one minute, telling you what to say.
You're going to go into your story and now you can walk around the room.
You can walk ten feet over the other part of the room, glance down, and now you see your next place.
Well, this is going to blow people away because they are used to seeing, for the most part, only
professional speakers moving around the room, moving around the stage, using the whole of the space
you're in, because, my goodness, everybody else is too nervous.
They've got to stay right there where their script is and stay behind the lectern.
Can't go away.
Someone might hit me.
It's kind of the attitude most speakers have.
That's what makes them seem timid, scared, nervous.
But you're simply walking around and when you're walking, people can see your hands.
You're completely exposed.
Now you're wearing clothes, but you're completely exposed to them.
Therefore you come across as supremely confident and relaxed.
There's a part of the audience thinking, Wow, I could never do that.
Here he is, or here she is in front of hundreds or even 12 people, and he's just walking around.
She's just walking around and talking to us.
What confidence now?
Not everyone is thinking about it at the intellectual level in those terms, but in their gut level,
they're forming impressions of you as someone who's supremely confident, who's just talking to them,
therefore you're more believable.
You're the real expert.
You know this, you're just talking to them.
The reality is you have no idea.
Maybe like I am.
You have no I have no idea what's next in my speech any time.
But I'm completely relaxed because I have my roadmap here, there, there and there.
Now, I've demonstrated this 1000 times to audiences all over the world, and they're always, Oh my
God, we're blown away.
I had no idea you had various scripts, and because they didn't notice the scripts, it's not what they
are expecting.
And that's the beauty of this.
When you walk around more, it gives you time to reflect, pause.
It slows down the speech too, and when you walk a little, you can be glancing down.
And that's a good time to see what's next on the script.
So this is a very, very simple technique.
Anyone can do it.
Now if you are giving a speech at a large convention, for example, and you are on an elevated stage,
a platform, what you can do is write out your notes in large poster board.
I've seen Joan Rivers, the deceased comedian, do that, and when it's elevated, no one can see it.
So it just looks like you're being reflective for a moment, looking down as you walk and your notes
are on the floor.
I've done this before, too.
It's quite effective.
And again, you have all your notes in four or five different sections of the stage.
Nobody will know.
It will be our little secret.
So this technique, when you combine what I did earlier, and if you've got your script, this is profoundly
powerful.
So now we've got to start practicing and I'm going to show you how to do that in just a moment.
But your task right now copy out for copies of your script.
You had one now I want for.


=== If You Are a Complete Beginner, You Can Start Here ===


--- Exciting New Update to this Course ---

I've got some great news, this course has been updated to be better than ever, I've listened to so
many of you tell me that while you like the course, you don't like having to upload your speech or
presentation, your media interview to YouTube or some other video file sharing site and then cutting
and pasting and putting that into you to Q&amp;A section.
So I've made it easier for you.
I've created a Facebook page that's just for my Udemy students.
It's just for you.
There's no sales going on.
There's no promotions.
It's just about your presentations, your homework, your questions.
So click below the link you can join.
And there's there's never any charge you'll automatically be accepted.
And that way, if you want to, you can post videos, your homework right there with one click.
You can just hold your cell phone, speak one click, and it's right there on the Udemy homework page.
Now, if for some reason you don't like Facebook and believe me, I know plenty of you and it's understandable
you don't have to join Facebook.
I'm not coercing anyone.
You can continue to post your videos right here in the Q&amp;A section of this course, and there's absolutely
no problem.
So either way, the choice is yours.
But check out the link below.


=== The Body Language of Public Speaking ===


--- Learn the #1 Secret to Speaking Success - Video Rehearsal ---

You're not going to like this next step, but it is absolutely critical to appearing to speak without
notes and to just be a great speaker.
You've got to do what I'm about to ask, and that is you have to rehearse, but rehearse in a very specific
way.
You have to rehearse on video.
So I need you to put a webcam up in the corner, put an iPad, lean it up against the wall, or have
a friend, family member or colleague hold a cell phone out.
But I need you to practice your speech with the four identical copies of your notes around the room.
Try to simulate the room as close as possible to where you'll be giving your next speech.
And I need you to practice giving the speech out loud.
And I need you to video record it.
People don't like to do this.
People hate it.
I don't like the sound of my voice.
I don't like looking at myself.
Well, grow up.
Every single person in your audience has to listen to your speech.
Every single person in your audience has to see your face.
So you're not hiding anything from anyone by not looking at yourself.
You're going to have to see how you come across.
You also need to see if your outline works, because sometimes things look good on paper, but you get
up, talk, you're finishing one point, you look down.
It's like, What was that again?
You might have to tweak your notes.
It's not too late because you're not giving the speech yet.
You're just practicing giving the speech of all the things that are going to dramatically make you seem
more confident to work out the kinks to make your speech better, to build your speaking skills more,
practicing on videos.
Really the number one thing and if you want to completely convey the sense that you're just talking
to people, you care about them, you're having a conversation with them and you're not somebody up
here reading boring notes the way most speakers are.
You have to practice on video.
Now, it's not that hard and it's not that time consuming.
If you have a 20 minute speech, stand up and speak for 20 minutes and watch it for 20 minutes.
That's 40 minutes.
You may say you don't have time, but the way most people spend their time preparing for presentations,
they'll spend hours writing and rewriting and rearranging bullet points on PowerPoint slides and getting
things approved, for the most part, a massive waste of time.
You need to allocate time rehearsing on video.
If there's no time to rehearse on video, there's really no time to give the speech.
I'd much rather you just not do the speech than to give the speech without practicing on video.
So that's your homework right now.
Practice your speech.
Practice looking at your notes in a way that isn't too quick, isn't jerky, isn't noticeable to people.
That would be nice if you could bring someone in, not just the person holding the camera to watch and
ask them what they thought of how you're giving a speech.
It may be that you fooled them already with this first take, but regardless, even if it's just you
taping on your own webcam, I need you to give your presentation now, working just from your notes
around the room and not from a script and not from reading outward and not from looking at bullet points
on a PowerPoint, but just your own piece of paper.
Do that now.


=== Let's Get Rid of the Verbal Tics, Uh, Um, Err, Ya Know Right Now ===


--- 2nd Video Rehearsal ---

So by now you should have recorded your first speech practice.
If you haven't done that and you're just watching videos.
I got to tell you, you're wasting your time.
You really ought to be looking at cartoons or baseball or football or something, because this course
is not going to do you any good if you don't do the exercise.
So stop now.
Go back to the previous exercise and video record.
Don't give me those excuses.
You have a cell phone record yourself.
You've got to do that.
Now, once you do that, I need you to watch the video very carefully and I need you to critique yourself.
Are you noticing that you appear to be looking up at people and not doing quick eye darts?
Are you having to do that?
Are you abruptly stopping and then having to run over to your notes?
These are all things you want to avoid.
Focus on the strengths and weaknesses.
Come up with a pile for each one of the things you like.
Is it starting to sound interesting?
Do you seem confident?
Are you pausing?
Naturally?
Are you looking up out at where people would be if you had a room full of people?
Yet if your head is jerking too quickly, eyes darting, awkward pauses.
Let's make a note of that.
Now, here's the tricky part.
This is the last thing I'm going to ask you to do that you're not going to like.
I need you to do the whole speech again and video record it and critique it this time.
The stuff you like.
I want you to make that stack bigger.
I want you to do more of it.
The stack that you don't like.
Let's try to make it smaller.
Even if you only reduce one thing you don't like, even if it's just jerking the whole head and body
down too much once.
Let's do less of that this time.
Video Record yourself, watch it and critique it.
Now the tricky part, after doing this one more time, if you like it, congratulations.
You're ready to go and give a speech and appear to be speaking without notes.
If you don't completely love everything about how you're speaking, you're not finished.
You've got to practice again on video.
Watch it again.
Take notes.
You have to keep doing it until you pass.
Not my test, but your test.
You've watched thousands of speeches in your whole life.
You know what's boring, what's awful, and what's interesting and compelling.
I want you to keep practicing your speech until you like it, until it passes your test.
I want you to be able to look at the video of your practice and say, Wow, this person is really compelling,
this person's confident, This person is just speaking to people.
This person is speaking from the heart.
That's the response you have to have before you're ready.
Now, you may be there after one take.
It may take 30 takes.
Guess what?
Your audience doesn't care.
They just want the best that you can give them.
So if you want to be supremely confident, you need to have seen yourself give a speech you like.
If you've seen yourself give a speech you like and you see yourself moving and sounding and talking
the way you want with the messages you want are the stories you want.
Guess what?
It's virtually impossible to be nervous when you're giving a speech.
It's extremely difficult to then feel awkward if you already have a visual role model for yourself and
it's you.
So this is the final touch.
It will give you supreme confidence and you'll just be so familiar with your notes, your roadmap that
everything will just go, not memorize.
I'm not asking you to memorize.
That's hard, That's difficult.
Don't try to memorize, but just have a conversation with your audience following your roadmap.
Do that and you'll be in great shape.
So let's do this exercise right now.
Record again, critique again.
Don't stop until you're happy with it.


=== Public Speaking On Video ===


--- Conclusion ---

Thanks for joining me for this course on how to speak without notes, or at least appear to be speaking
without notes.
I mean, it really all comes down to this.
You've got to have your cheat sheet.
It doesn't work if you make the teeny tiny.
It doesn't work if you make the font really large, but you have three, four or five, 10 sheets of
paper and it really doesn't work very well if you only have one sheet.
So again, to summarize, boil your message down to five key points.
Have an example or story for each one.
Put it on a simple outline with large font, have it fit on a half sheet of paper, make multiple copies
of it, place it around the room, practice your speech in advance on video till you're happy with it.
Then when you're there giving the presentation, you can simply walk around, be looking at people most
of the time, occasionally glancing at notes and no one will ever have any idea.
You were using notes.
Good luck.


=== Eliminate Your Fear of Public Speaking ===


--- Time to Give TJ a Piece of Your Mind ---

What would you do if you were me?
By that, I mean, if you were the person who made this course, what would you do to make it better?
Here's your chance.
I really want to hear from you now.
I hope you love the course as is, but nothing's perfect.
I want to know if you see anything that you think is bad, needs to be changed, needs improvement,
let me know.
But beyond that, beyond just looking for the negatives, I want to know what would it take to make
this an even greater experience?
What would it take to make this course the best course you've ever had here on this platform or any
other platform so sound off?
Believe me, I've got a pretty thick skin.
So you're not going to offend me.
But please give me specific things that I can do to tinker with it, tweak, change, delete some videos,
upload new ones.
I'm open.
I want to hear from you because ultimately this, of course, isn't about me.
It's about you.
What can create the best learning experience for you?
So please put your thinking cap on and let me know.
Post your comments right here in the Q&amp;A section if it's at all possible for me to make the changes.
Believe me, I will.
I want to make this course better and better and better.
Thanks.


=== Public Speaking On Conference Calls (Doesn't seem like public speaking, but is) ===


--- $10,000 Guarantee This Course Will Make You a Better Communicator ---

Here's my guarantee to you.
Yes, of course, there's a money back guarantee to this cause, like with every other course, but
your time is valuable.
If you spent two or three or five hours learning a new skill, getting back a couple of hundred bucks
or ten bucks is a small consolation.
If it doesn't work out, I'm going to give you a much stronger guarantee.
I'm going to give you a ten thousand dollar guarantee that you are going to get the benefits you want
and the improvements you want out of this course.
Here's what I mean.
If you do every single thing I ask of you in this course, specifically practicing your media or your
speech appearance on video multiple times, at least ten times, critiquing yourself, getting others
to critique it and putting it on the discussion board for other students to critique it.
If you've done all that and you still haven't seen dramatic improvement to where you are at a point
where you're happy with yourself, then I will spend a full day coaching.
You either live in person or via Skype video.
Now my clients pay me up to ten thousand dollars a day for my time.
That's why I say this is a ten thousand dollar guarantee.
Folks, I've been doing this for more than 30 years.
I've trained top CEOs, billionaire hedge fund managers, Miss Universe, you name it.
I'm used to dealing with every single skill level and problem when it comes to public speaking.
I'm so confident that the techniques I'm already offering you in this course will solve your problems,
that I'm willing to give you this personal guarantee, but simply do everything I ask documented.
And if you still feel like you haven't gotten the improvement you want, I'll spend a full day with
you to make sure you become great.
I give you my word.
I'm TJ Walker.


=== PowerPoint Presentations Don't Have To Be Awful If You Follow These Techniques ===


--- 7 Steps For Getting the Most Out of this Course ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Storytelling Is the Public Speakers Best Friend ===


--- If You Like to Learn by Reading ---

Different people learn in different ways, I understand that, and sometimes the same person learns
in different ways in this course, in the bonus section, there are as many as five books for you that
I've written, unspoken communication.
You don't have to read all of them.
But I would highly recommend you read at least one or two of the short books that can be read in 20
minutes or less.
It will help reinforce the same principles that are in the videos.
You may even want to read the books first and then go through the videos that will come alive more.
So mix and match the way you want.
Certainly keep them as a resource.
You can download them, have them a part of your permanent library and go back to them from time to
time.
So don't forget about the books at the end, but don't just skip all the videos and just read the number
one thing.
The thing that is most important, whether you're watching the video lectures, whether you're reading
the books, is none of this will help you unless you actually practice your communication, your presentation,
your reading interviews on video and watch it.


=== Drastically Reduce How Much Time You Have to Spend Preparing Your Speeches ===


--- Your Questions Will Be Answered Here, In Video ---

Your communication questions are going to be answered right here, and unlike almost every other class
online, it's not going to be a text answer.
I'm going to take the time to answer you in video.
So if it needs to be demonstrated at some level of spoken communication or speaking to the media, I
can actually demonstrate it for you.
Now, I'm going to take up to 10 questions, the first 10 questions posted every day for all my online
courses.
And I will give you an answer in a video format.
I don't think you're going to get that level of service any place else for this cost.
I will also answer every single question at some level.
Now, here are the parameters.
It's got to be a question that other people can relate to.
It can't be so specific to your nature that no one else will find it relevant.
And this is not the place to get your personal videos critiqued.
But if you have any questions that relate to public speaking, speaking to the media, speaking during
a crisis, if you post it in the discussion here, I will answer you in video.
And that way you can not just get an intellectual understanding, but you can see it practiced in the
real world.
So get your questions ready and post them as soon as they come to your head.


=== Public Speaking While Using a Teleprompter ===


--- Quick Wins! Appear to Speak Without Notes, Practice Techniques, and How to Start ---

Let's hop right in.
Your time is really valuable.
I want to give you some quick wins.
Here's a way to cheat when it comes to public speaking.
And don't worry, it's completely legal and ethical.
I do it all the time.
No one in my audience ever has any idea.
Here's the tip sheet.
Use a cheat sheet mine.
This is a one hour speech.
It's written in bold font, large letters, two, three, four words.
Max, this tells me everything I need to know because it's on a single sheet.
I don't have to pick up papers.
I don't have to stare at a PowerPoint and read people.
I'm not putting on my glasses and looking at it because it's larger font.
This way I can appear to just be talking to people throughout a presentation and I come across more
natural, relaxed, confident.
That's the first tip.
I want to give you three quick ones.
The second tip is I actually print out three copies of my notes and I place it around different parts
of the room.
That way I can have one on top of a lectern or a desk in front of the room.
There can be another table.
And when I'm bending down to pick up a glass of water for a sip, I'm glancing at my notes.
I'll even have one in the back of the room.
I can be back there.
And to everyone else, it appears as though I'm just natural and relaxed and confident walking around
the room like a professional speaker.
And here's the secret.
I have a horrible memory.
Doesn't matter.
I have a roadmap simple one page of notes.
That's the second.
The third tip.
The single biggest thing you can do to train like the CEOs of yesteryear who had million dollar budgets
for every aspect of marketing.
Here's your secret cell phone.
I'm going to teach you how to use this for public speaking.
But the biggest tip of all practice, any speech, any presentation you have, just recording yourself
on video doesn't matter about the lights or shaky hand work.
Just record yourself, watch it, figure out what you like, what you don't like.
Keep practicing till you love it.
That's the single biggest tip that will really help you build confidence and be great.
Now, I'm going to show you how to do this in more detail in the course.
Now, those are three quick tips forthe bonus tip.
This is how you should start off presentations.
Focus on something interesting to your audience, not about yourself.
As you may have noticed, I didn't start this course off by saying, well, let me tell you about your
instructor today.
I'm so great and wonderful and I've written all these blah, blah, blah.
The biggest problem most people have with their speeches and why they're nervous at the beginning is
it's boring.
They're just talking about me, me, me, me.
Talk about your audience.
If you talk to them about something that's of interest to them, they'll want to learn more about you.
Final quick bonus tip, try to exceed expectations.
I told you I'd give you three tips here.
Five already.
And we've just started the course.


=== Become a Professional Speaker And Get Paid to Speak ===


--- Save Your Time and Energy By Using The Course This Way ---

There's a lot here in this course, and I want you to use your time in the most effective way possible,
if you have some really specific concern, I would recommend you simply look through the whole curriculum
right now.
So, for example, if fear of public speaking is your number one concern, you can go right to the course,
the subsection on fear of public speaking.
If you're giving a technical speech, you may want to go there.
For most people who really want to build strong fundamentals, I suggest just going straight through
for the core content.
Then if you have other questions, other concerns, you will find it in this course.
The course is designed to give you the core content.
What's most important right up front.
And you can do that in about 90 minutes or so.
There's all these other specialized courses and concerns within the course.
You can look at those.
There's also frequently asked questions.
There's also a lot of other topics you can search at any way you want when in doubt.
Just send me a message of what your concern is.
I'll tell you where it is in the course or I'll make a new video for you.
Again, this is a live, living, breathing, cause I make new videos every single day, answering your
questions, giving new tips on public speaking.
So don't get lost.
Don't waste time.
Focus on what you want and we'll get you in and out of here as quickly as you need to.


=== Speaking On Skype Video ===


--- You Can Fulfill Your Exact Public Speaking Goals Once You Identify Them ---

What do you really want to get out of this course for the last 30 years, I've worked with, as I mentioned
to you, thousands of people all over the globe from six continents.
Everyone's different.
I worked with 10 year olds.
I've worked with eighty two year olds, presidents of countries and administrative assistants.
Everyone's different, and yet everyone's the same.
When I ask people this question, the first answer is quite often, well, I just want to be more comfortable.
I'm nervous speaking and I point out to them, well, you could be a comfortable speaker and still be
awful.
Still be boring.
No, I remember your messages.
So what good is it to just be comfortable and they kind of look like this?
Know, you're right, T.J., you have a good point.
Maybe that's not enough.
Here's what happens when I really dig deep with my clients online and offline.
It really comes down to four specific skills they really want to build.
And that's what we're going to focus on here in this class.
The first is how do you look?
Comfortable, confident, relaxed to your audience.
And as a part of that, how do you actually feel confident?
Now, in the short term, you might not feel confident, but if you know how to look confident and comfortable
to your audience, that's going to reduce your stress a great deal.
So we're going to spend some time just on the body language.
And what do you do with your hands and all that stuff?
The second skill is making sure people understand you, because if someone has a great voice and good
eye contact and hand gestures, but you don't understand anything, the person saying because if jargon
or speaking too quickly or too softly, no communication will take place.
The third skill, the third goal for most people is speaking so that you actually get the audience to
remember your messages.
That's the hard part.
Oh my gosh, is that hard?
First thing I ask people when I'm working with them face to face, tell me the best speaker you've seen
in your field, in your industry in the last year.
Now, tell me every message you remember from that great speaker.
Can't remember anything last year about the last five years.
How about the last ten years?
We go around the room and quite often people say, uh, D.J., everybody's boring in our industry.
Sometimes someone will say, oh, yeah, there was this one woman.
And I remember this one idea.
Sometimes people remember two ideas, occasionally three every three or four months someone will remember
for ideas.
And every six months someone will remember five ideas from the best speaker they've ever seen in their
life sometimes.
So we're going to come back to that theme a lot in this training, in this course.
How do we get people to remember the messages?
That's the hardest part for most people.
Why do we want them to do that?
So we can do the final goal?
The final accomplishment, any time we speak, influenced the audience to do what we want.
When we're speaking to people, we want them to buy from us, hire us, endorse us, invest in us,
vote for us.
We're typically speaking because we want the audience to do something, whether it's one person, one
hundred or ten thousand, that's ultimately what we're here for.
So that's what we're going to work on.
Here's what I want to know from you.
What else do you want to get out of this course?
I'm going to ask you right now, I'm not going to ask you to video record yourself yet, but just type
into the discussion section of this course.
Tell us one sentence, your name, where you're from and what you want to get out of this course beyond
what I mentioned right there.
So please, it just helps everyone.
Let's go around the room right now and introduce ourselves.
Thanks.


=== Speaking to Large Audiences - A Big Fear For Even Confident Speakers ===


--- Use the Eye Contact Tricks of the Masters ---

I want to give you two advanced tips, although anyone can do them.
Most people don't.
These are specific to the body language that we're talking about here.
I notice that some of you didn't do the exercise.
That's OK.
But I will be asking you again and again throughout this course to practice on video watch, share what
you're experiencing, what you like and don't like.
So let's hop right into an advanced tip on body language that will solve a lot of other problems.
And that is what do you look at if you're a little scared or nervous?
The tendency is to look down at your notes and that way you can't see anyone looking at you.
The problem with that is now you look scared, nervous, unprofessional, and everyone's feeling sorry
for you.
You don't want sympathy from your audience.
You want them focused on the ideas you're giving them that are interesting, useful and helpful.
The bottom one percent of speakers are typically staring at notes or they're reading the bullet points
on a PowerPoint slide or they're looking straight out at.
The mirror or a clock on the wall, or maybe they're just looking at one friendly face on the first
row.
The problem, everyone else feels ignored.
You have a relationship with your audience.
It's like any other relationship can be like going on a date.
You're on a date and the person is staring at their cell phone the whole time.
How do you feel?
Do you like that person?
You have to give some contact, some eye contact and attention to your audience.
So I want to give you some more tips.
So the bottom one percent, you clearly don't want to do the next group of people.
This is probably about ninety eight point nine percent of speakers there doing some version of the windshield
wiper.
They're looking at the audience the whole time, but they're never looking at any one person.
It's imagine a windshield wiper or a water sprinkler, so when you're in the audience, you see the
person up there, but they're just addressing the whole room.
All right, class today we're getting a by blah, blah.
And you feel anonymous when you're in the audience and someone is looking at you like that because they're
just looking at the whole room.
Everyone, it's too quick.
It's not what the top speakers do.
I don't know what the really best speakers do, they'll pick one person in the audience and they'll
look at that person and talk for just a couple sentences, one full thought, and then they'll go to
another person in the audience and look at that person for a final thought.
Only a few seconds.
Here's the difference.
When you're really looking at someone, that person feels it.
They feel you looking at them, they feel you giving them attention, and it makes them pay more attention.
It makes them really listen to you concentrate more.
And you will appear to be supremely confident because now it's obvious you're not lost in thought.
You're not staring.
It notes.
Here's the key.
You're not just staring at one person for five minutes.
It's just a thought, a sentence or two.
So it's three, four, maybe five seconds at the most.
What does that mean if you're giving a presentation to a group in your office, clients, customers,
prospects, and you're talking for fifteen minutes and there are thirty people in the room, it means
you can give every single person individualized eye contact many times because again, we're only talking
about five seconds or so.
This does a lot of things.
It just makes you appear supremely confident.
So if I'm looking over here at this person to the people over here, I at least look composed and confident
because I'm not sort of.
Doing this thing, which makes speakers look nervous and uncomfortable, here's the advance tip you
may not need to use this any time soon, but it's here for you when you need it.
If you're speaking on stage at a large group, let's say a convention for your industry, you may have
bright lights in your face and it's dark in the audio.
You can't even see your audience members.
This trick will still work.
Just focus one spot for that full thought.
A couple of sentences, 20 people in that whole area will feel like, wow, he really spoke to me.
Wow.
She was really talking to us.
And then you just pick different points throughout the room and you hold the gaze.
The fact that you can't see any one doesn't matter.
They will feel like you're looking right at them.
You're connecting with them.
And when you're doing that, it means you're less likely to do all sorts of other things of staring,
looking down, freezing up because you're looking at them.
That is absolutely key.
Here's the other thing about this.
When you're looking at one person, it actually calms you down.
You feel more relaxed and comfortable because now you're just talking to one person.
Well, we've all done that since we are two or three or four years old.
That makes it really easy for you throughout this course.
I'm going to give you more and more tips of things that will make life easy for you so you don't have
to be in the middle of the presentation.
So let me get my glasses on and see where we're going here.
No, you don't want that.
The second sort of advance tip it's easy to do doesn't require any advance skill or training.
When you're starting a presentation, the very first word out of your mouth, just have your hands move,
sort of prime the pump, because if you're scared and nervous and that's normal, the normal thing is
freeze your hands or hold your hands.
So intentionally, just for the first fifteen seconds or so, force your hands to move and gesture.
It may even feel awkward, but you'll look so much more comfortable than all the other speakers out
there who start off holding paper, holding a lectern, holding remote control.
I'm holding a remote control today just to turn the camera on and off.
But most of the time when you're speaking, don't hold pencils, don't hold anything else.
Keep your hands as free as possible.


=== Introducing Yourself -Speaking About Yourself Doesn't Have to Be Awkward ===


--- Learn to Like and Even Love the Sound of Your Own Voice ---

I realize you might not like the sound of your own voice.
Most people don't.
I'm not going to ask you to listen to your voice yet, but I am going to ask you just to practice one
more time talking about anything and record yourself, preferably if you can have a friend, family
member or colleague record it with your own cell phone five, six feet away, even better, and then
watch yourself the single biggest factor.
And you becoming a great speaker and really advancing has nothing to do with the quality of your voice,
the arms, the others, your vocabulary, or how smart you are.
The single biggest determinant in my experience, your willingness to practice on video.
The ultimate test is can you watch yourself giving a presentation and listen to it and really love every
aspect of the style and substance.
I'm not going to ask you to post the video yet, but I am going to ask you just to practice one more
time recording yourself and then just watch without the sound, write your notes.
Anything you like don't like in the discussion section.
If you have a particular problem or concern about what to do with your feet or you feel like your hands
are moving too much, post it there and I'll address it directly.


=== TED and TEDx Talks - You Can Deliver! ===


--- Starting Your Speech At Exactly the Right Spot ---

So you're now feeling more comfortable with how you look when you're presenting, but as I mentioned,
that's just the first step on our journey.
We're trying to communicate here.
What is communication?
It's not just words coming out of your mouth.
Someone else has to receive those words.
They have to hear those words.
They have to understand those words and they have to remember them before there's even a chance of them
acting.
So let's start off with the basics.
What is square one?
You've got to give a presentation at work next week, a talk, a briefing, perhaps a keynote to your
industry, or maybe you're just talking to your boss about what you've done in the last month.
What's the starting point?
For most people, the starting point is sort of running around, gathering facts, gathering data,
getting a wheelbarrow and trying to assimilate as many facts and data points as possible and doing that
working hard, staying up late, typing bullet points on PowerPoint.
Time out.
That is not your starting point when it comes to any presentation, talk briefing you're giving.
And by the way, throughout this course, I'm going to use terms like speech, presentation, talk,
briefing interchangeably.
I really just mean any time you're talking to someone and it's not just about the sports or entertainment
or shooting the breeze, you're trying to convey something important to you and possibly influence it.
So it's not enough to just give out stuff.
You've got to actually have an impact.
That's why it's critically important that your first step is to know what your own goal is.
What is it you want to have happen?
So what I want you to do before any speech, before any presentation you ever give is to ask yourself,
what is it I want my audience to do to be able to sum that up in one sentence?
Do you want them to hire you?
Do you want them to endorse you?
Do you want them to approve a budget?
Do you want their vote for the next election?
That is your starting point.
Sometimes it can be general.
I just don't want to be fired.
I want my boss to think I'm working hard still.
What is the one thing you want your boss to be thinking about as the reason for why you shouldn't be
fired?
So I need you to have that clarity, because once you nail that down, it makes everything else you
do in the speech preparation infinitely easier, more efficient, more streamlined.
Remember, the people you're speaking to do not have to know everything you know about your job or what
you do.
If they did, they'd have your job already.
So very rarely is it your job when you're giving a presentation to tell people everything you know about
everything you've done.
So here's the homework assignment right now.
I get one sentence.
I'm not asking you to write five thousand words for me, and I'm not asking you to put it in a video
yet.
I want you just to write down one sentence, ten words or less.
What is the one thing you want your audience to do after you've given your presentation?
And if you don't have any upcoming presentations, just pick something you can relate to that.
You theoretically, if you are in business and you raise money from investors, think about just one
pitch to an investor.
If you're a school student and you have a summer job teaching people canoeing, think about how you
want people to do that.
One thing, whether it's the jae stroke or not, stand up and fall over.
Think about what is it that you want your audience to do.
So I want you to write that down in the discussion section right now.
And that'll give you real clarity.
It'll help so much if you want to go on vacation.
It's nice to know you want to end up in Paris or in Orlando or in Tokyo.
You don't want to just get in a car and drive with your whole family.
Typically, if you're planning on a nice week vacation, you need a destination.
That's what we have to nail down right now.
Please do that before advancing to the next lecture.


=== Give a Winning Sales Presentation ===


--- Become a Five for Five 100% Speaking Success ---

I want to make your life easy.
I actually want to save you time, not give you our upon our upon our extra due diligence for every
single presentation.
So here's my recommendation.
You've already isolated in one sentence what it is you want your audience to do, whether their customers,
clients, prospects, colleagues, other people in your industry.
Now, I need you to just brainstorm on messages that are important to you and that you think will motivate
your audience to do what you want.
Don't worry about spelling.
Don't worry about complete sentences.
Don't worry about paragraphs.
Don't worry about what's legal.
Don't worry about any other kind of restrictions.
Just brainstorm.
And whether you want to just get a fresh pad, pen or brainstorm on your laptop or it doesn't matter.
I just want you to free up your mind and just start jotting things down.
Here's the catch, though.
I need you to truly isolate one idea at a time.
If you have more than 10 or 12 words, you're probably stringing together a couple of ideas.
If it's a whole paragraph, that's four or five ideas.
I need you to isolate one idea at a time and let's see how many a half.
Don't limit yourself free up your brain.
You may come up with five.
You may come up with 10, 20, 30, 50, 100.
The sky's the limit.
But here's the thing.
At some point you've got to put an end to brainstorming and say no more new messages for this presentation.
For this speech, we're closing the floor for nominations of new ideas.
Now, what you've got to do is go back and look at every one of your ideas.
Don't worry about order contacts.
Don't worry about flow.
Don't worry about stories.
Don't worry about the bullet points on a deck yet.
Just look at the ideas and ask yourself, is this truly one of the most important ideas important to
me?
And is it really going to motivate my audience to take the action I want?
And I need you to put these messages in priority from least important, the most important, and then
anything that doesn't make the top five, throw them away or determine that you're going to give people
a PDF or a book and hand it out to them later.
Kind of like what I'm doing in this course.
I'm not going to spend a lot of time on how to use a teleprompter in the Corps first 90 minutes of this
course.
But for those who want it, there's a chapter in one of the books at the end.
There's also part of the course on teleprompter in this as well.
So it's there, but it's not a part of my core material to you because it's, in my judgment, not the
most important thing for you to know if you're trying to improve your basic public speaking skills.
So put it in priority.
This is hard.
The easy thing is just to give people everything.
So much of being an effective presenter.
A good public speaker, frankly, has nothing to do with the quality of your voice or your eye contact
or your gestures or how funny you are or good looking or any of that.
So much of being an effective presenter.
Is simply about using your judgment.
Before you ever stand up to speak, great speakers use judgment and they simply eliminate the stuff
that isn't critically important to their audience, they eliminate unnecessary messages.
Mark Twain once said a lot of other famous writers have been quoted saying this as well.
I'm sorry, I wrote you a long letter.
I didn't have time to write you a short letter.
It actually requires more time, more intellect, more thought and judgment to narrow things down to
five ideas than it does to just tell people everything you now get.
Why do I say five?
Because I actually test audiences all over the world constantly.
Again, this is all I do is public speaking, training and media training.
I've never found any audience of business people or any other field.
Remember more than a handful of ideas from the best speaker they've ever seen.
So don't be greedy.
I understand you can tell people 10, 20, 30, 50 ideas about what you do, what your passion is,
what your business is, guess what?
Nobody cares about you, this speech isn't about you, it's about the audience, what are they going
to take away?
What are they going to remember?
What's going to be useful to them?
What are they going to be able to act on?
So much of being a good speaker is about simply not being selfish and realizing it's not about me,
it's about my audience.
How can I do everything from the standpoint of helping the audience?
That doesn't mean tell them just what they want to hear.
You may have some unpleasant things to tell people, but you've got to package those messages in a way
that is digestible.
The number one problem every one of my clients has in every industry, in every continent.
It's not the Ms and Oz, it's not the hands shaking.
Number one problem giving way too many messages in every speech.
If you can solve this problem, you're going to be way, way ahead of the crowd and you can say, well,
T.J., five to four, you have got to do seven.
You can do as many as you want.
But here's the thing was we'll talk about later in this course test.
If you can get your audience to remember seven, 10 ideas.
Be my guest.
I've never seen it done, but if you can test it and you have evidence it works, do it.
But until then, I just want to give you the basic principles that I think will help most people most
of the time, and that is narrowing your messages down to just a handful.


=== Public Speaking for Kids ===


--- A Trick 1000 Times More Effective Than Practicing In Front of A Mirror ---

Did you narrow your messages down to your top five?
I hope so, because what I'm going to ask you to do now is to pull out your cell phone and just say
it out loud.
Don't worry about it being perfect.
Don't worry about it having a fascinating, engaging opening or stories.
Let's just talk about our five messages and see how they sound.
Sometimes you'll go to all this effort of brainstorming messages.
You type them up, they look fine on a screen or a piece of paper, but you say them out loud and you
realize one of the messages is completely boring and uninteresting to everyone.
Scratch it off.
So I'm not going to ask you to post the video, the URL here in the discussion yet.
But I do want you to record it and listen to it and watch it.
I understand you might not like your voice yet you get used to your voice that really solves the problem
for most people is just getting used to the sound of their own voice.
So do that.
I would like you to write down in the discussion section of this cause what your top five messages are
and remind me and everyone else, what is the one thing you're trying to get people to do and then write
down what your five messages are?
This really helps people, even if no one else looks at it and I am going to look at it, to write it
down, to have that clarity in your mind as you're preparing your speech, practicing it, giving it,
makes it so much more effective for you and the audience.
I want you to do that now.
Now, if you want even more information on all the things to think about in messaging, I have some
advanced classes here further down.
This is what you really need to know that's most important.
But with anything we cover in this course in the first 90 minutes or so, there is a lot more in depth
later on in the course with some of the advanced courses, the frequently asked questions section.
And don't forget, you could always just type in a message directly to me or the discussion with any
specific question you have.
And if I don't already have a video on it in this course, I'll make a new one for you that will be
posted on the YouTube channel that corresponds to this course.
So don't forget that option.
I am here for you.


=== Becoming a Motivational Speaker ===


--- Every Great Speaker Uses These...Every Awful Speaker Avoids These ---

If you show me a great speaker, I'll show you somebody who's had some awful speeches, awful days,
things were nothing worked, just fell flat or got booed.
Now, I've had some successful speaking days and I've had standing ovations and that's nice and wonderful.
But I've had some lousy days of speaking and presenting to live audiences in the media.
I'll never forget my worst speaking opportunity ever.
About a quarter of a century ago, I was on a talk radio show in South Florida.
In the United States, it was political season.
And I walked into the station in the studio.
I remember sitting a really low seat.
The host was this high seat looking down at me.
We're talking about politics.
And I said, Mr. K, what I really think before I could say anything else, he pulls the microphone
out of my hand, says, Mr. Walker, I have more respect for a Ku Klux Klansman than I do for you.
I was a bit shocked.
I hadn't said anything that provocative.
But at this point, I'm already a public speaking coach and media training coach and I already have
confidence.
So I think I'm really tough.
So I'm not pulling on the microphone.
He's pulled the mic out, I'm pulling it out.
And I said, Yeah, yeah.
But Mr. Cain, what I really think before I could say anything else, he reaches under the table.
The console pulls out a gun.
Now let's talk radio in south Florida.
There's palm trees outside.
No one can see this.
Now, do you see my point, Mr. Walker?
You know, I said at that moment with my silvery tongue, with all my oratorical experience.
Not much of anything, I see your point.
Not my best moment speaking, in fact, this guy was really theatrical.
So he then says to his producer, call the police, get this guy out of here, remove this guy immediately.
I'm pushed out the studio.
Not my greatest speaking event ever, but I had some friends listening to that.
They recorded it and they would replay the audio of that radio show for years.
Any time I came over their house, it was awful.
I did a horrible job.
But you know what?
I went back to that station now I stayed away from that host, I still think he's crazy, but I went
back to that station and I actually co-host at other shows.
I didn't let one bad speaking opportunity, one bad media experience destroyed my self-confidence.
I'll never do that again.
I love speaking.
I love helping other people speak.
And I just learn from it.
And I went back to it and after a while, everybody forgets it because there's so many other speeches,
presentations, media interviews I've probably done to five thousand network TV and radio interviews
since then.
So no one really remembers that.
That's the key.
If you have a bad speaking opportunity, you'll learn from it.
You just do more and more.
Typically, no one will remember the bad ones.
What did I just do there, I told a story.
Why did I do that?
I just wanted to make the point that everybody can make bad speeches.
And the real lesson is you got to learn from them to get better.
I could have said that in five seconds, but if I said it in five seconds, it's much less memorable.
The biggest difference between great speakers in the world and everybody else, bad speakers, average
speakers, the biggest difference is not the quality of the voice or the hand gestures or the eye contact
or how expensive the clothes are.
The single biggest difference between great speakers and everybody else stories great speakers illustrate
every important point with a story.
And you can say, well, T.J., I don't have any stories.
Yes, you do.
All human beings have stories.
It doesn't have to be as dramatic as someone pulling a gun on you.
The most important thing is it's true.
And it relates a conversation you had with someone.
By the way.
My story was true.
That actually did happen.
Is it a good story?
Is it going to win a Pulitzer Prize now?
But does it work?
Yes, my clients remember that sometimes people come up to me 10 years after I've seen them the first
time in a training and they say, hey, T.J., and it had guns pulled on you lately.
They remember it.
That's how I know it works.
And they get the point.
The point, of course, is not that I am subject to guns being pulled on me all the time.
The point is everybody can be awful or bad one day you just have to learn from it.
So what are the elements of a story?
I tried to incorporate them right there is a setting I was in a talk radio station in South Florida,
whether you've ever been one or not, you have an image in your brain.
The second thing there is a character there's me and this talk show host, the third there's a little
bit of dialogue.
What he said to me, what I said back and forth, there is a problem.
There's a gun pulled on me.
There's an emotional component.
How do I feel?
I felt scared.
Sixth, there was some resolution meaning to it.
Well, I got out alive and I actually went back to the station.
So those are the elements of a story.
And you have stories happen to you all the time, people ask me all the time.
Well, T.J., can I just make up a story?
Well, you could, but it's really hard.
Again, I want you to be, in a sense, lazy.
That was a really easy story for me to tell because I'm just reliving an actual experience.
And that's going to be easiest for you most of the time.
It doesn't have to be wildly dramatic.
All it has to do is involve a conversation you had with a real person about a real problem, how you
felt about it.
How it was resolved, that's all it is, and you have to ask yourself if here's one of my important
messages, if I've never had a single conversation with anyone about this issue.
Maybe it's not really an important message.
That's one of the tests I have for you.
You can't think of a single story to flesh out a key point.
It's probably not a very important point.
Remember, your story setting can simply be you're sitting in your office and your cubicle.
You pick up the phone and you talk to the guy or the woman two floors down about a problem with this
customer.
How did you feel?
How was it resolved?
This feels hard.
I understand that this feels difficult.
It's actually the easiest thing in the world.
Human beings are hard wired to communicate by telling stories so much of what makes public speaking
difficult.
We're trying to do something very abnormal, listing lots of facts, bullet points in an abstract way.
I think of it this way.
If you go in Monday morning to the office or Sunday morning, if that's the first day of your work week
and someone says, how was your weekend, you know, typically say, well, I woke up at 6:00 a.m. Saturday
morning at 6:00 out to I went to the kitchen at six thirty.
I started fixing coffee at six 04.
I went and opened the bread.
That would be really hard to list every single thing you've done the whole weekend.
And yet that's how a lot of people give speeches, listing every single fact in some logical order instead.
So I want to ask you, how was your weekend?
You might say something like, oh, it's fantastic.
My family loved watching the Olympics, the ice skater, did you see you hop right into a story involving
a setting, how you felt, who was involved?
We do that instinctively in human conversation.
What great speakers realize is that when you're giving a so-called formal speech or formal presentation
presentations or briefing, you don't want to throw away the stories.
That's the part you want to keep.
You don't want to give people the boring data dump so you can ignore half ninety five percent.
Ninety nine percent of what I say in this whole course.
If you illustrate every key point in your presentation with an interesting, memorable story, you're
going to be the best speaker anyone in your audience has seen that day, that week, that month, maybe
ever.


=== For People Who HATE Public Speaking ===


--- Professional Analysis Of Your Stories Now ---

Quick assignment for you, I want you to pick just one message from the presentation you're working
on for this cause.
Now think of one story that makes this message come a lot more interesting, more memorable resonate.
I want you to practice it on video.
Don't worry about the lighting, the camera angle or shaky camera work.
Just record it so you can see it.
Look at it, figure out what you like, what you don't like.
Is it making sense?
Redo it a few times till you're comfortable.
It's the best you can do.
Then I want you to upload it to either YouTube or Facebook or any video file sharing service and then
post it right here in the discussion.
Let's take a look at I'll look at it.
I'll give you my professional critique.
Cost you nothing.
You already paid for it.
With the admission into this course, most of you are not going to want to do that.
That's OK.
I'll still love you.
But for those of you who really want to get the most out of this course, the best return on your investment,
that's the way to do it.
So please don't just have auto play on and go to the next video.
Please do this practice now, not for my benefit, but for yours.


=== Public Speaking With a Team - Team Presentations ===


--- Give Life to Ideas With Your PowerPoint, Not Death ---

PowerPoint, you hear people trash PowerPoint, attack PowerPoint, talk about death by PowerPoint,
I'm not here to attack PowerPoint, so my best friends are PowerPoint.
I use PowerPoint all the time.
But let's face it, most PowerPoint is awful.
It puts everybody to sleep because this is just a boring data dump.
I want to give you a few tips here.
This is a quick summary of what's most important to PowerPoint.
If you follow these basic precepts, your PowerPoint presentation will be the best anyone in your company
is seen probably ever.
But if you want a lot more details on PowerPoint below, further on in this course, there's a whole
sub course just on PowerPoint.
For starters, realize the PowerPoint slides are for your audience.
They're not for you.
If you just have a bunch of words and bullet points for you to remember what to say, as we talked about
in the very first video in this whole course, just use a good old fashioned piece of paper.
Don't use that slide for your audience.
Be honest.
Now, do you like it if someone reads to you?
I ask audiences all over the world that question and unanimously everybody says, oh, gosh, I hate
that someone starts reading bullet points to me.
I get the perfect solution.
It's called checking Facebook, checking my email.
That's the best solution to that.
So we don't want to give people an option for leaving us.
They might not leave the room, but mentally and emotionally, they have left the room.
So we don't want to do that.
The slides are for your audience, not for you.
Here are the basics.
One idea per slide use images, not text some.
You OK, T.J.?
So I hear you.
What you're really saying is the fewer words, the better.
No more than three bullet points.
Hit rewind a second, because that is not what I said.
People think I say that.
I've never said that.
If you want to use PowerPoint effectively, the most effective way is one idea per slide, one image.
Per slide, don't use any text, let me say that again, because some of you are doing is this guy crazy?
He couldn't have possibly said that.
What I'm saying is, if you want PowerPoint to actually work and be effective when you're standing up
giving a presentation to people alive, it's different if you're just emailing them a deck or some kind
of a webinar.
But if you're standing up and talking to people, my recommendation do not put a single word of text
on a slot.
Well, but to our corporate culture, we have a product.
Frankly, I don't care about your culture, your corporate culture.
But you know who else doesn't the people in your audience listening to you.
So it's not about me and my preference, but it's also not about your corporate structure and best practices.
It's about what actually works on your audience.
So here's the test.
When it comes to PowerPoint, does the slide you have actually help your audience understand the message
more than you just saying it?
And does the slide actually help your audience remember your message more than you just saying?
And if it doesn't do both of those things, it's not helping you.
I understand that's not how most people in your organization use PowerPoint, this course is about how
to be great and to do it the most effective way, not how to just go with the flow and be awful and
mediocre the way others are.
So that's my recommendation.
Now, here's another simple, easy cheat that's going to dramatically help you help your audience boost
your reputation as a speaker.
Just have two power points.
Have one that you're projecting.
That has one image per slide.
Have another one with lots and lots of tax bullet points, complexity.
Email it to people.
Hand it out to people.
I've got four or five books at the end of this course I'm going to give you, but I'm not standing here
reading bullet points of bullet points going across the screen because that would be boring.
But if you want to read the five books, it's all there for you.
If you don't want to, you're not bothered by it.
You don't have to open them up or read them at all.
So that's the easiest way to just have two separate power points.
The traditional one more and more data, the better more make it a thousand pages.
I'm giving you a thousand pages.
But when you're presenting, be highly selective.
Think of some of the most effective presenters in the whole world in in the corporate world, for example,
most people would say Steve Jobs, the founder and former CEO of Apple, when he wanted to unveil a
new, exciting product.
What did he do?
He didn't typically put up slides with lots and lots of bullet points in text when he was unveiling
the the iPhone Waldy do he said, you know what this is?
And he put up a picture of an iPod and he said, you know what, this is?
And he put up a picture of an old fashioned traditional flip phone, why are we here today?
Brought images together into a picture of an iPhone.
Everyone instantly understood what it did, what it was about, what the product was, and it generated
excitement.
That is the most effective way to use PowerPoint.
And it doesn't require money.
You don't have to have the marketing budget of an Apple.
You just have to have a mind set that you're going to create slides for your audience, not for you.
It's very simple to go on Google and type in a word, click images, find something rights free that
you can use in your presentation.
So I understand that isn't how most people create power points in your organization, but if you want
to know the most effective way, that is how to do it again.
There's a lot more information in the PowerPoint course below if you want to go even deeper to PowerPoint.
But if you follow those basics, you're going to be better than pretty much anyone your audience has
seen.
The ultimate test, of course, is test your audience.
After you have a PowerPoint presentation, you're going to give one to, let's say, 30 important clients
Thursday, get a couple of colleagues together Tuesday at lunch, give them your PowerPoint presentation
when you're done.
Ask them what slides they remember, what was on it, what was the point, any slide they remember and
they remember your point, congratulations.
You have evidence it works.
Keep the slide.
You use it on Thursday.
But if your audience can't remember the slide or they can't remember the message, you now have empirical
evidence that slide is completely worthless.
Take that slide.
Tear it up and throw it in the trash can.


=== Public Speaking On Panels ===


--- Use 1 Idea to Make Your Slides #1 ---

The human brain is very visual in nature, that's why it's easier to remember someone's face than how
they spell their name on a business card.
That's part of the appeal of PowerPoint when you use it effectively is you're using images.
But remember, that's only one tool, the PowerPoint slide.
You can use good old fashioned props things in real life.
So, for example, to use the Steve Jobs example, again, when he introduced a new ultrathin laptop,
he didn't just put up a slide and put up the specs, you know, eight millimeters.
Why he didn't put up a slide at all.
He said, how thin is this new laptop?
He walked over to a table, picked up an envelope and pulled the laptop right out of the envelope and
said, it's this thin.
That whole thing cost about 50 cents for the cost of an envelope.
And yet it made such a powerful, powerful impression, made people excited about the product to me
to think, wow, that's going to be so much lighter, thinner, cooler to have than some big clunky
laptop I've been used to.
This is a company that had an unlimited marketing budget.
He could have had his team spend six months and hire every kind of Hollywood director for every kind
of fancy video to show this new product.
It was a 50 cent envelope that demonstrated how thin it was.
And simple prop, it worked even though he was in front of thousands, so always ask yourself, is there
some tool you can use to make your idea come alive and resonate with people?
So, for example, sometimes corporations and governments will call me.
They'll want a proposal about how I can do public speaking training for their leaders, sometimes one
on one, sometimes group.
And my big selling pitch is frankly that I don't just show up for a day and get people on camera.
I have a whole toolkit of intellectual property courses, so sometimes I don't do this all the time.
Sometimes I feel like it might be cheesy, but I'll actually remind them.
I say, look, I have an extensive tool kit to help you for a whole year.
And in this tool kit, I've got online trainings, I've got books, I've got videos, I've got the ability
to rehearse with anyone.
I train after the day of training and live Skype video before their next speech.
If they call me or text me with any questions, I'll answer them in a personalized private video.
I'm here for you.
I've got other tools.
I'll be sending you follow up training videos every single day for the next year.
So I use this tool metaphor and I, I do.
Sometimes someone might think it's cheesy and you have to be willing to take a risk from time to time
of the people who hire me if they've never heard of me before.
And they talk to five other public speaking training firms, they'll often mention that they really
like the fact that I've got this whole extensive toolkit.
And it's not just a one shot day of getting they're putting people on camera.
They like the pre training, the post training, all the follow up.
So this image helps me communicate my message.
Now, in this case, it wasn't a 50 cent envelope, but this only cost me, I think, nine dollars off
Amazon.
So you may have other props, other tools that were and you might not like that.
That's OK.
Don't use a prop if you think it's too gimmicky, if you think it's too cheesy.
But if you think it will help your audience and that's the real test, understand and remember your
message, then by all means do it.


=== Speaking on the Elevator - Deliver a Great Elevator Pitch ===


--- Passing the Ultimate Public Speaking Test With Flying Colors ---

Now we get to the single most important part of this course, if you actually want to become a dramatically
better speaker, I'm going to talk about the one thing that creates the most positive impact on your
speaking skills.
The simplest thing to do.
It's also, frankly, the least popular part of the course.
I know some of you want to be able to just watch videos and learn things intellectually.
That's OK.
I'm the same way in other courses.
Sometimes I'm going to ask you to just skip this whole section because this is where I'm going to ask
you to do things and to record yourself.
You don't want to do it.
Don't beat me up in the ratings.
Just go to the next part.
Believe me, there's going to be more content concepts for the rest of this course.
Then you're going to find in any other 10 courses on you to be on public speaking.
And if you have any other questions about anything else with public speaking, again, you can always
message me.
I'll answer you in a video, make a new video for you and post it if it's not already on this course.
OK, I've gotten that out of the way.
Those of you still with me.
Here's what I need you to do.
I need you to come up with a simple outline.
You've already got the main thing you want people to do.
After having listened to your presentation, you brainstormed on half a dozen and really not that many,
but just five messages, you've got that written down.
You ideally have a story now for each one of your message points.
And if you want to use PowerPoint, you don't have to.
But if you do want to, I need you to come up with an image for every one of your points.
And now I need you to actually give your presentation, pull out your cell phone, laptop, iPad, however
you want to record yourself.
I need you to record it.
Now, here's the tricky part.
You follow this, I guarantee you you're going to be a great speaker and the best speaker, frankly,
in your organization, you don't follow this and this will be an interesting course, pick up a tip
or two.
It's not going to have a dramatic impact on your speaking skills.
So here's what I'm going to ask you to do.
Watch the video and then grade yourself.
I'm giving you a reading sheet below so you can print that out or you can use it right there in the
discussion forum.
I want you to grade yourself and I want you to figure out exactly what you like, exactly what you don't
like on every aspect of style and substance.
And then I want you to record again, do the same thing, figure out what you like, what you don't
like.
Try to do more of what you like.
Do less of what you don't like, keep doing it again and again and again, by the way, this is what
people pay.
I hate to sound like I'm bragging, but this is what people pay me a lot of money for, to come do with
them for a full day.
I typically have people speak a dozen times on video.
We record it, we critique it.
There's very little lecturing from me in a day of private, one on one, our group, public speaking,
training.
It's mostly people speak, record it, figure out what we like, don't like we keep doing it.
The ultimate goal is not when I say you've passed the test, whether it's a live training or virtual
here.
The ultimate test is can you look at your video and say, wow, if I can be half as good as he is,
am I can be half as good as she is.
I'm going to be the star of our industry.
That's how I want to present.
And you're pointing to a video of yourself.
That's when you know you have a new habit.
That's when you know you have a skill.
That's when you know you're ready to give great presentations and legitimately be confident.
It's not some sort of fake phony meditation.
Not that it's anything wrong with meditation, but it's not visualizing a standing ovation.
You've actually seen yourself give a great presentation on video.
Now, you don't have to do an hour long speech and redo it fifty times and spend the next three weeks
on this.
You can pick, if not all five points, just one of your points and one story.
But I want you to practice it on video that might only take 60, 90 seconds, practice it on video,
look at it and be objective.
Most people, if they watch themselves on video, they only want to focus on what they don't like.
I've seen people stand up, give a presentation.
Everyone else in the room thought it was fantastic, interesting, riveting, memorable, great energy.
And I'll ask the one person, what did you think?
And inevitably he'll say, oh, my God, T.J., it was awful, I said to Ohmes, I feel like an idiot,
I feel like a fool.
It's horrible.
Please delete the video.
Everyone else thought it was great.
So the reason I give you the checklist below, it's not that these are the only criteria you should
think of or use.
I want you to put things in perspective.
Most people, if they are objective, looking at themselves, speak on video, they'll notice that they
may be doing twenty five things really well.
And there's only two things they need to focus on.
That puts things in a much better perspective.
If you realize you're already doing twenty five things right and you only have to focus on two psychologically,
it's just much easier.
It's more relaxing.
So that's what I want you to do now is record yourself, try to figure out what works so you can do
more of it.
What is it working.
What do you not like, what can you do less?
Now, here's the real secret.
Here's the trick to this exercise is I need you after you've looked at one, you've seen things you
don't like.
I need you to focus on just one thing.
You didn't like trying to improve that.
So if there are five things you didn't like, you notice your hands were frozen and your face was flat
and you were rocking a little bit.
Don't try to fix all of those things at once.
Just focus on one thing at a time.
Now, when you're rating yourself, I have things on there like hair, clothing.
Obviously, I'm not expecting you to have a perfect head of hair.
It's not about being perfect.
It's about what works for you and your audience, what isn't going to distract the beauty of my hair.
And there's very little beauty in my hair.
It's just because I don't have a lot, I just keep it really short with the hopes of not distracting
you.
So I'm looking at a video of myself.
I can obviously say, well, I don't have a beautiful head hair, but ultimately that doesn't matter
to my audience.
I'm not trying to be a Hollywood movie star.
Romantic interest.
I'm just here to give you information that's going to help you become a better speaker.
So when you're analyzing yourself, your video, I need you to focus on things that you can change.
I can't change my hair like that.
Don't you think you're too heavy?
Don't worry about that.
Your audience doesn't care.
Focus on what you can change to make yourself communicate more effectively at every aspect of style,
substance, your body, your voice, the intellectual content, the messages and the stories.
So keep doing it.
Maybe you get it right after two takes.
Will, if you only spoke for a minute, you watched for a minute, you redid it, watched again.
That's only four minutes of your time that I'm asking for.
Is four minutes really too much if it could make a dramatic impact.
On the other hand, you may want to do a longer speech.
You may want to practice ten times.
Fifteen times.
Well, but, TJ, I'm busy.
I'm busy.
There's always time for anything that's important when I'm working with my private clients and workshops
and seminars all over the world.
This is a part of their homework.
They have to do this before they step foot into the room with me.
I was working recently with a very busy technology CEO.
Big company has ten thousand employees all over the world reporting to him.
Busy.
I know you're busy, but he's a pretty busy guy.
He did his practice video, his speech one hundred and thirty times and watched it one hundred and thirty
times before he felt that he was doing his best.
And he sent it to me for a critique.
So I understand you have a lot of demands on your time.
There's always time for anything that's important.
So if it's important to you to really up your game as a speaker, that's what I need you to do.
Now, keep practicing on video until you think you're at the best.
You can possibly be uploaded to YouTube, Facebook, any video file sharing service.
You can put it on unlisted so the whole world doesn't have to see it.
But then post the are of that video right here in the course.
I'll critique it and the other students are welcome to it.
And don't worry about the other students making fun of you.
Everybody's worried about their own stuff.
Nobody has time to make fun of you.


=== Public Speaking Emergencies! ===


--- Testing Your Speech With Focus Groups For Free ---

Some of you are going to call me a hypocrite when you hear me say this, but I'm going to just be transparent
with you.
I can't stand it when people call public speaking a soft skill.
And I even have courses about soft skills here on Udemy, where we talk about public speaking.
But here's where I hate it.
You call something a soft skill and it sounds like a soft little puppy.
It's warm, it's fuzzy, it's not quantifiable.
It's just something you're supposed to like in a frilly little thing.
No, there's nothing about public speaking that isn't just as quantifiable, that is hard, data driven,
quantifiable as any aspect of mathematics, physics, accounting or chemistry.
Here's what I mean by that.
All those things you can test.
You can add up your numbers, does it add up, you're building a new bridge, does it fall down when
a car drives up, you can actually test these hard sciences?
Well, it's exactly the same with public speaking and presentation skills.
If you have a presentation to give to 30 clients or prospects or customers on Thursday, test your speech
to two or three colleagues Tuesday at lunch.
Ask them what do they remember?
Do they remember your key messages?
If they don't remember your messages, you now have one hundred percent empirical evidence that your
speech is completely worthless.
I want you to take that speech you prepared.
Tear it up and throw it in the trash can.
It does not work.
If you tested a bridge to go from two cities over a major river, you put it up and the design instantly
crumbled and five cars plunged to their death.
The people inside, you wouldn't then say, OK, well, let's now build this bridge in real life in
front of two larger cities in a larger river.
The fact that it doesn't work well, let's just do it anyway.
No one would ever do that.
Why in the world do we think it's acceptable to give a presentation when we have no evidence it works?
Here's how you do it.
You've practiced your speech on video and you have two ways of doing this.
Send the video of your very best presentation to a couple of colleagues, maybe in a different city,
maybe in a different continent.
Don't tell them what you're going to do in advance.
Just ask them to look at it and to email you when they've looked at it.
Then call them up, call them through Skype, phone, anything else.
Don't ask them what they think of your presentation.
They'll tell you, Oh, it's great.
You're confident.
You're comfortable, completely worthless advice.
Ask your colleagues, what do they remember from your presentation?
And they might start off by saying, well, you were very smooth and comfortable and polished politely,
politely, as not what I asked.
I want to know what messages do you actually remember from this presentation?
Because I asked people that all the time and they said if they say something like, well, T.J., you
were great, you were professional, you were smooth, confident, then I know my speech was a complete,
utter failure.
If people can't tell me exactly what my messages were, exactly what the stories were, exactly what
slides there were.
It means I didn't communicate.
So one technique, take that best video that you did in the previous exercise, which I'm confident
you did, just email the video to other people and ask them to take a look at it.
The other thing that's an even better way of doing this is your presentation is on Thursday.
Get a couple of colleagues together Tuesday.
Maybe you're in a shared workspace, you can find someone who doesn't work for your company, but his
mind set whose knowledge base is similar to that prospect or customer.
You'll be speaking with say, hey, can my before lunch, I'll give you a sandwich for free on me,
then give them your presentation.
Don't tell them advance.
You're going to be testing them.
Don't let them take notes, because chances are your real life customers and prospects you're speaking
to aren't taking notes of what you said.
Just give them your presentation.
Then, as I mentioned, ask ask what they remember.
Ask every message that sticks.
Now, the good news is if they tell you messages they remember and it's the messages you cared about
one of your initial five.
Fantastic.
Let's celebrate.
You now have empirical evidence, hard factual data that the way you are presenting that information
works.
Keep it keep it in the speech.
And when you're giving it, have the confidence, knowing it's not about luck today.
It's not about whether you're on today.
You already have tested you know, you're giving your audience material that works, test your slides
the same way the slides that work, the messages that work, the stories that work, meaning they're
actually remembered.
Keep them, use them.
Anything that doesn't work, throw it in the trash can.
Let's keep retooling it until we have something we know that works.
People don't like to do this.
Most people don't do this.
Your colleagues are not doing this.
Your competitors are not doing this.
But guess what?
It costs nothing but a little time, and this is, frankly, time that most people spend typing and
typing more and more bullet points on a PowerPoint slide that no one's ever going to look at.
So use your time effectively.
It will pay off for you.


=== Speaking to Raise Money - Fundraising Presentations ===


--- More Evidence That Your Speech Is Working ---

Another very important place to test your speaking abilities and your speech immediately after you've
given your speech, your presentation or talk, any time you're talking to more than 10 people, someone's
likely to come up to you afterwards.
Oh, good job today.
Good presentation.
Most of us in that situation say, well, thanks.
Appreciate it.
I was good today, wasn't I?
You may think that.
Don't stop there.
This is valuable, valuable marketing research that you could get, but you got to dig a little deeper.
Major corporations all over the world spend billions of dollars of market research.
But when you're a speaker and you're trying to improve your speaking, you can get all this market research
for free.
All you have to do is ask.
So when someone comes up to me after a presentation, oh, good job today, a good speech, I always
say thanks.
But hey, do you mind me asking what do you remember what stands out?
How would you describe this to your colleague who wasn't here today and really listen.
That's extraordinarily valuable focus group research, and it's free if they're telling you the messages
that were important to, you know, at work, if they're remembering your examples, your stories,
your slides, you know, it worked.
But if it's just, hey, good job, very professional, very interesting, then if that's what they
tell me, I know I failed completely.
If that's what they tell you, it means you failed because someone can have all sorts of reasons to
tell you you are great.
They may want a promotion.
They may want you to hire their kid for a summer internship.
There's all sorts of reasons.
Someone may just tell you that it was fine or great.
People can lie about that, but they can't lie about what messages they remember.
If you present it in a way that wasn't memorable and they don't remember it.
So I always ask.
Say thanks first, but then ask the what do you remember what stands out?
Because that is public speaking gold.


=== Public Speaking to Investors - Investor Pitches ===


--- More Is Sometimes More When It Comes To Public Speaking ---

The best ice skaters in the world, ice skate every single day, the best soccer players, the best
football players play every day or at least half the year, they're playing every single day for hours
if you want to be a great speaker.
One technique is to just speak more often the best speakers in history.
We quite often remember for one speech, but we forget the fact that they were speaking constantly.
Martin Luther King Jr. here in the United States was credited as having given the best speech of the
20th century.
His famous I Have a Dream speech.
What everybody forgets is he gave more than 300 speeches that year alone.
I don't care who your favorite politician is in your country.
Chances are that person gives a speech every single day.
Now, you might not want to be president of a country or a major civil rights leader.
That doesn't mean you can't speak regularly.
The easiest way these days is just say something on social media, in a video format.
Talk about some area of expertise you have on a YouTube channel, on a Facebook page.
Let's take it up a notch.
You could be speaking in your own Udemy course.
If you speak often enough, regularly enough and you're watching yourself, you get more and more confident.
Doesn't mean you're perfect.
Doesn't mean everybody will love you some.
You don't like me.
So here you guys got beady eyes.
I don't like his hairline.
There's nothing I can do about that.
But what I can tell you is I'm as relaxed now speaking to you as if I were talking to one friend.
And in this entire course, I've done everything live to tape, because when you're giving a speech
you don't get to do over, you're in front of people.
They see it.
So I've made some little mistakes here and there.
I kept on going because I wanted to demonstrate to you how to real people actually speak in the real
world.
The problem is not our mistakes.
It's quite often our reaction to our mistakes.
There may have been one or two things where the phone rang and I stopped, but pretty much I've done
this whole course just live all the way through.
So the amount of time it takes you to watch this, that's how much time it's taken me to make this course,
because I'm just talking to, you know, talent on my part.
No unique skill, nothing innate.
It's not like knowing how to dunk a basketball or balance on a high beam.
It's just talking.
But if you don't do it a lot, it feels strange and weird and uncomfortable and you'll come up with
all sorts of excuses as to why you should do it.
So my advice to you is just say yes to every speaking opportunity you have.
And if you can't travel somewhere, you can always just give a speech through live Skype video without
leaving your home.
The more you speak, the more comfortable you get, the better you'll get.
And it creates this positive cycle of virtue and you just get better and better and better.


=== Public Speaking to Foreign Audiences ===


--- Conclusion to the Core Section of This Public Speaking Course ---

I want to thank you for signing up for this cause, taking it, getting this far.
This is the conclusion of the core central part of this course.
Now, as you can see, there's still hundreds of other videos and lessons if you want more specialized
knowledge.
But if you've gone through this far in a straightforward way and actually done the exercises, you're
in great shape.
You should be seeing dramatic improvement in your speaking skills and your confidence.
I do want to offer to you one last time in this course action the option of putting a video right here
in the discussion section.
I will critique it.
Don't charge any extra for it.
You might as well take advantage.
This is the best way to really leverage what you've invested in this course.
The best way to improve, best way to get out of it.
So I would one last time politely ask you to record yourself on video, make sure you think it's the
best you can do at your current skill level.
Upload it and I'll give you a full critique.
I want to thank you again for joining me for this course.
Now a moment about me, because as you may have noticed, I didn't spend any time talking to you, giving
you my full bio at the beginning.
That's by design.
I think most people start off their speeches, their courses, their presentations in a boring way.
Let me tell you about me so I can feel important.
And so I won't be insecure by thinking you think I'm not qualified to be here.
It's defensive and it's frankly boring.
So what I do in every speech in real life, what I try to do in this course is instantly give you value,
instantly give you information, tips that would help your life, your speaking, your presentation
skills.
Ideally, I hope to and helped you enough that you got to the point where you even cared about me.
So I as I mentioned to you, I did give you a few tips, have been teaching people how to speak effectively
ever since I was in college way back in nineteen eighty four.
And I conducted public speaking workshops, media training seminars, one on one, small groups, large
groups and keynote speeches on that subject all over the world.
As of the time of me recording this, I've trained in thirty countries and I've worked with people from
every continent and that's where I got this expertise.
Now, how did I get this?
I wasn't born a natural speaker.
I was very shy as a kid.
I said basically nothing.
And then one day I was in sixth grade about to graduate.
My teacher comes out to me and says, T.J., I'll make a deal with you.
I'm in charge of the graduation ceremonies for our elementary school.
I got to find some kid to give the welcoming speech right now.
You got really good grades and everything, but you have a very average a C grade, just plain vanilla
for handwriting.
I'll give you an A. I'll give you the top grade for handwriting if you just give the welcoming speech
to parents, teachers and students can.
I was a shy kid.
I never said anything to anyone, but I thought, hmm, that doesn't seem that hard.
It'd be nice to have an A..
I like getting good grades.
I said sure.
So I stood up half read the speech.
It wasn't anything good at all, but I got through it, got through the day.
And you know what?
I got that again handwriting.
And I learned at a very early age at age 12, if you're just willing to stand up and speak, good things
will happen to you.
And I've been speaking ever since now.
Since then, I've written a number of books that are attached here for you.
One of the secret to foolproof proof presentations was the number one USA Today bestseller, a Wall
Street Journal of BusinessWeek bestseller.
I've done more than one hundred courses on public speaking and media training here for you to be, and
most of them have their best elements already in this course for you, so you don't have to buy all
the others.
Shouldn't say that my accountant doesn't like it when I say that I like to speak and I like to speak
often.
So I have thousands and thousands and thousands of videos on a handful of YouTube channels.
This point, more than ten thousand videos.
I do a new one every day, so I have more content on public speaking than any one in the world.
And more quantity doesn't always matter.
But when it's with quality, till you put the two together, it can be very comprehensive.
I've created more online media training and public speaking training courses than anyone in the world.
I actually got into the Guinness Book of Records for speaking on more talk show than anyone else in
the world in a twenty four hour period.
More than a hundred talk show appearances in twenty four hours, so.
I'm not somebody with any innate skills here, but I am someone who's focused and devoted my life to
helping people speak more effectively.
And I really want to thank you for the opportunity to work with you.
And I hope I've helped you.
Thanks so much.
Hope you enjoy the rest of the course.


=== Public Speaking for Engineers ===


--- Road Map to the Rest of the Course ---

Thanks for finishing the caucus, if you decided to take that first.
You may be coming here right away to get a sense of the landscape of this course.
This is a big cause and it's going to be easy to get lost.
So I would urge you to spend some time reading the heads of the sections, the titles, read some of
the titles of the individual lectures.
You may want to sample a couple.
As I mentioned to you before, there will be some duplication.
You will hear some themes repeated.
So please don't criticize me for that or take that off in the ratings because I've designed this so
that you can come in and take just one section if you want to.
If, for example, you just want to know how to give a financial presentation, you can take just the
section on that and skip the beginning stuff if you wanted to.
So that's why there is duplication.
I'm aware of that.
It's not meant to take the whole course in a linear way.
But look around.
If you don't see a whole section with a course on the topic you're looking for, you certainly might
find the issues addressed that you want in the advanced section.
You might see it in the frequently asked questions section.
If all else fails, just send me a message and ask me and I'll steer you the right direction.
Or I will make a new video addressing your concerns directly.
This is a growing, evolving course, so we've already maxed out here, as you can see, there's the
five hundred and fifty lectures, which is the maximum Udemy allows.
I put new ones on every single day as an addition to this course in the YouTube channel.
That is the supplement to this course.
So I'm here for you.
If I can help you, let me know.
Thanks.


=== Public Speaking in Workplace Meetings ===


--- These Simple Secrets Will Make You Look Like a Public Speaking Veteran ---

Want to give you some quick wins here for quick tips that are going to make public speaking dramatically
easier for you in the future.
Big tip number one cheat.
That's right.
You heard it.
I'm not suggesting anything illegal, but use a cheat sheet.
I do a lot of the best speakers in the world do, because the reality is, as a beginner, you're going
to get nervous.
It's harder to remember what to say.
Don't put pressure on your brain.
Use a cheat sheet.
If I want to give an hour speech, here's an outline of everything I'm going to say for an hour.
Now, here's the key.
Here's the secret magic only use one sheet of paper, big, bold letters and don't put whole sentences.
Your I can't look up at people and look down, find sentences and paragraphs.
Just have one, two, three words, bullet points, large font no one will ever know you're using,
even if it's right in front of you.
So that's one quick tip.
You want another quick tip?
People will think you're a magician.
If you ever have to give a PowerPoint presentation, you can have a slide.
Can be someone's boring slide.
All you have to do is hit the letter B.
Hit the letter B blocks out the screen, any clue whatsoever brings it back this way you appear to be
in complete control, even if someone is giving you a really boring presentation to get the next big
tip.
If you want to get rid of the arms and others in your voice, type up the word arm or or and cut it
out, put it on your cell phone, your watch if you wear a watch, a laptop, any computer screen,
and then draw a red circle around it and a line through it, you know, like no left hand turn, no
parking.
After a week, your brain will be reconditioned and you won't say our arm anymore.
You can simply pause this way.
Even if you are still nervous, you'll seem completely composed.
But no one really big tip, easy tip practice, anything you have to say on a cell phone and look at
it.
This is what the pros do.
This is what no one did because the technology was too expensive until not that long ago.
But you can do it today as a beginner.
Just practice anything you have to say, whether it's a book report, whether it's an analysis of what
your team has done in the last quarter.
Just practice right in your cell phone.
Look at it, figure out what you like and don't like.
Four quick tips now.
Let's move on.


=== Speaking One On One In Business ===


--- You Will Never Have to Be Scared, Even Though Everybody Else Is ---

Let me let you in on a little secret, if you are a beginner public speaker, as I assume you are,
because you've signed up for this course, you're going to be nervous.
You're going to be uncomfortable.
That's OK.
Everybody is nervous when it comes to public speaking.
For more than 30 years, I've trained presidents of countries, prime ministers, Nobel Peace Prize
winners, U.S. senators, members of parliament, you name it.
Everybody gets nervous before they speak.
So don't worry about it.
This course is going to help you get to the point where maybe you're not completely relaxed, but you'll
know how to fool the audience into thinking you're completely comfortable.
So much of what makes us worried when we speak is we're thinking, oh, they're laughing at me.
They think I'm a beginner in public speaking and they're right.
And they can tell how scared I am.
Perfectly rational thought.
But if you know in advance how to look comfortable, confident, come across relaxed and you know,
you're fooling your audience, it actually becomes extremely difficult to be nervous when you're speaking.
So that's what this course is going to do, give you more and more tips on how to come across comfortable,
confident and relaxed.


=== Common Public Speaking Questions/Topics - And Answers (Short Clips) ===


--- This Is How You Get Your Audience to Do What You Want ---

Part of what makes public speaking scary is where do we start?
Oh, my gosh, let me go to Wikipedia.
Let me go to Google.
Let me talk to everyone in my office who's ever spoken on that.
Let me gather more and more and more data.
Let me start taking a slide.
It seems overwhelming.
Well, let me simplify it for you.
Before you do any of that, I need you to sit back, relax and ask yourself, what is it I want this
audience to do, the people you're speaking to?
Do you want them to approve a budget?
Do you want them to think you're smart and not fire you?
Do you want them to invest in you?
Do you want them to vote for you?
Do you want them to approve plans for some new engineering project?
What is it you want them to do?
That's really the starting point.
That's the first thing I want you to do in the discussion group right here, right down in one sentence,
really one sentence.
What you want your audience to do?
Pick a scenario if you don't speak at all yet.
Think of one where you could in the near future and write that down in one sentence.
What is it you want your audience to do?
That is the starting point of every presentation, every speech you're ever going to give.


=== Public Speaking for Political Candidates ===


--- Unlock the Keys to Motivating Your Audience ---

OK, so you've isolated in one sentence what it is you want your audience to do.
Now comes the next step.
You've got to ask yourself what is going to motivate your audience to actually do what you want them
to do?
So you got to ask yourself out of every fact, every message, every no what's going to motivate them
the most?
And I would suggest you write it all down or type it up in bullet points, messages, one after another
after another.
You might have 20, 30, 40, 50, you may have 100.
But here's the catch.
I need you to put them in priority.
And I need you to come up with just the top five, all the others, throw them in the trash can or keep
them as a separate document, a PowerPoint slide, backup material, a Web page.
You can always give that to anyone you're presenting to in an email as a handout, as a PDF.
But don't stand up and deliver some big data dump.
It's simply not effective.
So much of being a good speaker is not about, oh, what do I do with my hands?
Or I didn't say it's not about looking and sounding professional, whatever that means.
It's about using judgment and asking yourself, what does my audience really need to know?
What do they want to know and need to know?
They don't have to know everything, you know, or they'd have your job.
So you've got to really use judgment here.
And that's what distinguishes good speakers from bad speakers, even if they're not beginners.
There are a lot of speakers who have been speaking their whole life.
Think of themselves as comfortable, confident, professional, but they're boring as all get out.
No one remembers anything they're talking about.
So the easiest way to get over that initial hump of rank beginner and distinguish yourself and frankly,
be a lot better than most people.
Narrow your messages down to your top five.
Why do I say that?
Well, for 30 years, I've trained executives, politicians, scientists all over the world.
And I always ask them in the in-person trainings, think of the best speaker you've seen in the last
year or five years, maybe ever.
And what do you remember?
So I'll ask Jim and Jim.
Everybody in my industries, Borat, remember anything?
I'll ask Sally.
Sally, who do you remember?
Well, T.J., there was this one woman two years ago, and I remember this one message.
And we'll go around the room and typically it's one two point, sometimes zero, occasionally three
every three months or so, four points once every six months.
I'll have somebody to remember five ideas from the best speaker they've ever seen in their entire life.
In all the years I've asked that question, I've never yet heard anyone remember more than five ideas.
So if you want to be not just a beginner speaker, but a really good speaker, narrow your messages
down to your top five.
Now, this is going to be hard because you're going to feel this temptation of, well, I'm a beginner
and I don't want anyone to think I'm stupid, so I don't want to leave anything out.
So let me talk quickly and cover everything and I'll cover my.
You know what?
That's the temptation.
And I'm begging you, don't go there.
Instead, narrow the focus down to your top five ideas.
I'd like you to post those right.
Those in the discussion section right now.


=== Public Speaking to Persuade ===


--- Getting Feedback the Right Way to Make You Stronger ---

When you went to first grade and tried to learn how to write, you had feedback, you had a teacher
tell you, well, you left out a period here, you didn't capitalize there, you didn't have a comma.
You needed feedback in order to get beyond the basic beginner level of someone trying to form the alphabet
and to write.
Well, it's the same thing when it comes to speaking.
But here's the thing.
It doesn't matter if you're a beginner in intermediate or advanced, the secret to becoming better as
a speaker is constant feedback.
And let me practice what I preach, because in a moment, Udemy is going to ask you to give a rating
on this course.
I know it's early, but already you've formed impressions.
You've either thought, wow, this guy is wasting a lot of time talking about how great he is or he's
giving me good practical tips right away.
So I do want you to rate the course.
But if you find anything that isn't great, I want you to write to me right away.
Message me, because as many thousands of speeches I've given, I'm still learning, I'm still getting
better.
And I'm trying to improve this course, too.
So if you see something you don't like or if there's an element you're not happy with, send me a message
and I'll try my best to improve this course right away.
Now, here's the thing.
You're not going to hear from most people.
Here's where most speakers, whether they're beginners or advanced, fail.
And it's also something you're not going to find in the Udemy section when they're asking to review
you.
But it's what I'm going to ask you.
It's a way for you to jump start over the competition.
The thing to ask when you practice in front of someone or you're giving a real speech, don't ask them
what they think.
Don't ask them.
Am I five star worthy people aren't going to want to hurt your feelings.
The real question, the significant question is what do you remember from my presentation?
Ultimately, you want your audience to, of course, have a good feeling about you, feel like you're
comfortable and confident, understand you, but you want them to remember your messages.
That's really what's most important.
How else are they going to take the actions you want?
So that's what I'm going to do for you right now.
In addition to asking you to rate the course, if it's meeting all of your expectations and to send
me feedback on anything you don't like.
Beyond that, I want you to post in the discussion group right now exactly what you remember so far
from this presentation.
What sticks out is most valuable, is most interesting, is most helpful, because if I write down in
the discussion, oh, T.J. is very professional.
He's smoothies, engaging.
He's comfortable.
He's confident.
If that's what you write down, it means I failed completely.


=== Speaking to Investors/IPO ===


--- Mastering the Easiest Public Speaking Technique of All ---

As I mentioned to everybody's nervous when it comes to public speaking, everybody is ill at ease,
some more so than others.
Now, in my day job, I do daylong public speaking training workshops with beginners, intermediate
and advanced people all over the world.
And I often have people get nervous.
Their palms can get wet.
I've had the carpet in my training room before get moist because people's hands were so soaking wet
with sweat.
I even had people cry, believe it or not.
And I usually say the same thing.
Relax, nobody's perfect.
Nobody's twenty one anymore.
My hair is falling out.
I'm getting jowls, getting wrinkles.
My hair's turning relaxed.
Well, one day I had a client was a one on one training in my studio in New York City.
We had just done the first exercise.
She'd given her first presentation.
We're watching it and I notice she's starting to cry.
Jennifer, what's wrong, T.J., I hate the way I look, I hate the sound of my voice.
I was about to say what I normally do.
Relax, nobody's 21.
But then I realized I couldn't say that.
Because she actually was twenty one years old.
In fact, she was Miss Universe and did not have a problem of what any one would normally think of as
a bad voice or bad appearance.
And yet she still wasn't comfortable looking at herself because she just never looked at herself on
video before.
And after a lot of practice, she got more comfortable and better and better.
And to this day, she's very comfortable on camera doing TV commercials, everything imaginable.
But initially it was very awkward.
So you're in good company if you're not completely comfortable doing a presentation.
So what did I just do there?
I told a story.
It's a true story, but it was to make a point that, hey, everybody gets nervous.
Does it matter what you look like?
Everybody's going to get nervous.
So you're in a boat with everyone else.
Why did I do that?
By telling a story.
It makes it more memorable.
The biggest difference between awful speakers, whether they're beginners or intermediate or advanced,
is that awful speakers never tell stories.
Great speakers, even if it's the first speech they ever gave in sixth grade, give stories human beings
are hard wired to understand.
Listen more carefully to a story.
A story is just a conversation you had with one person about a problem, where you were the setting,
how it was resolved, how you felt and what was learned from it.
That's all the story is.
Doesn't have to be funny, doesn't have to be dramatic.
You don't have to bring tears to people's eyes or your own eyes.
The best source of stories is just recounting an actual conversation you had about a problem with a
colleague, a co-worker, a client, a customer, a boss.
It's the ultimate example.
You've isolated the five key messages you have in your presentation.
Now you need a story involving a real conversation with a real person for each one of your messages.
Now, if you don't have a story from a message point, what that really means is you've never talked
to another human being about this message.
If that's the case, you've got to ask yourself, is this really an important.
Message, if there are no stories, typically that means it's not a very important message.
So that's your job right now.
Think of an interesting story that isn't just fun to be fun or to be funny, but that's relevant.
And that makes the message points.
You have come alive.
So take a moment, write those down.
Just a couple of words.
You don't have to write out the whole story.
You can just say, you know, the time I almost drowned or the conversation with our biggest customer
who was unhappy about a late delivery.
Just one sentence to remind you of the story.
Go ahead, write that down.
Post it in the discussion group now.


=== Public Speaking for Women ===


--- Your Picture Will Be Worth More The a 1000 Words ---

This is a beginning public speaking course, so you don't have to use PowerPoint, in fact, you don't
ever have to use PowerPoint, the greatest speakers in the world typically don't.
Now, I'm not a..
PowerPoint.
I use PowerPoint.
So my best friends are PowerPoint, but I don't want to spend a lot of time on it here.
Here's the rule of thumb for PowerPoint.
If you're going to use PowerPoint, it's not about maximum of three bullet points or ten words.
Those are not the rules you need to worry about.
The rule of thumb is, can someone in your audience look at your slide instantly?
Understand?
What it is, what the message is, and do they remember your message?
That's the only thing you have to worry about.
What that means is you need to narrow it down to one idea per slide and to use images, not text.
Now, I realize in your organization, your business, you probably see people do it differently.
You probably see a whole bunch of bullet points and lots of complexity and complex graphs.
How's that working for you?
How much of that do you really remember?
So rather than taking beginning steps of how to make really bad, boring PowerPoint in the way everyone
else does, I want to make your life simpler, easier.
Number one, you shouldn't have to use PowerPoint, but if you do one image per slide, one idea personally,
I do that and no one's going to think you're a beginner at public speaking.
They're going to think you're great.


=== Delivering Financial Presentations ===


--- Only Perfect Practice Makes Perfect ---

You figured out what you actually want your audience to do, you've narrowed it down to your top five
messages, you've come up with an interesting story or examples for each message.
And if you want to, I'm not requiring it.
But if you're going to use PowerPoint, you've come up with an image for each one.
Now it's time to give the speech to all your co-workers tomorrow, right?
No, not yet.
There's still time to work out the kinks.
If you have a really, really important document or report for a boss or colleague, do you just type
it up once and send it out without spell checking it, editing it or reviewing it?
Probably not.
You want to actually look at it and spell check it and make sure it looks good before you hit send.
Really no difference.
When it comes to public speaking, you need to see that your speech is actually good.
Now, here's the hard part.
You're probably thinking of the speech of your text or your PowerPoint deck.
That's not your speech.
The speech is.
You literally speaking.
Well, how are you going to test that?
If we were doing this cause 100 years ago, 50 years ago, even 30 years ago, the answer might be,
well, practice in a mirror or something like that.
By the way, don't waste your time practicing in front of a mirror, a complete waste of time.
Pull out your cell phone or an iPad or a webcam, your laptop and just practice your speech.
Record it, look at it.
Figure out what you like.
Figure out what you don't like, do it again, do more of what you like, do less of what you don't
like.
Now, I know some of you are saying, how can I fast forward?
I don't like hearing this.
I don't like what T.J. say.
How can I fast forward to the next thing so I can sit back and just read this really is the biggest
part of the course and it's the biggest differentiator between are you going to sort of sit back and
still tell yourself, oh, I'm a beginner, I'm no good at this, I'm an awful public speaker.
Are you going to get over the hump?
If you want to get over the hump, you're going to have to pull out the cell phone and actually speak.
Watch yourself.
Don't do it once and watch yourself and say, oh, I'm awful.
The lesson here is I should never watch myself on video.
That's the lesson some people take.
That's not the lesson.
The lesson is look at it, figure out what you like.
Keep doing it again and again and again.
Keep practicing until you think you're coming across a perfect.
But the way you want to come across and you're coming across the best you can.


=== Delivering an Informational Talk ===


--- You can pass the Ultimate test ---

We talked about testing earlier.
I want to give you another tip, you could argue this is an advanced tip, but you seem like a pretty
smart crowd here.
I want to give you some advance tips, even though this is the beginner course, because it's not particularly
difficult.
It costs nothing and it can help you get some much more comfortable and confident when you are giving
that presentation.
So here's the concept.
You're giving a presentation to six important colleagues on Thursday or two very important clients on
Tuesday.
Find one or two colleagues or a friend Tuesday at lunch.
Give them your presentation when you're done.
Don't ask them what they think they're your friends are going to say.
Oh, good job.
You'll be fine.
Worthless advice.
Instead, ask them what do they remember.
If they remember your key messages, that means you're doing something right.
Keep it up.
If they remember your images, that means your images, your slides, work, keep them.
But if they can't tell you exactly what your messages are, why they think you're speaking to them,
that means it's not too late to go back to the drawing board, retool it, keep practicing until your
test audience gets it.
I know this seems advance, but it's a lot easier than staying up till midnight, rewriting bullet points
and changing font sizes on PowerPoint slides, which is how a lot of beginners and advanced people spend
their time preparing for a presentation.


=== Public Speaking on YouTube ===


--- Extra - Tips on How to Get Over Nervousness and Being Scared ---

I know some of you have gone through the whole course now and you're thinking, well, it's making some
sense, there's some good points and yeah, I can try that.
But still, I'm nervous.
I'm uncomfortable.
I'm scared.
My hands are shaking.
I feel for you.
I want to give you some more tips, but I do want to give them to you in order of priority, because
I find people come up with so many techniques, they want to do a shot of booze or beta blockers.
I'll talk about those in a moment of meditation, hypnosis.
I'm not saying all of those solutions are always bad, but I want to give you my sense of the clear
hierarchy, the number one way to get over nervousness when it comes to speaking is to have actually
watched yourself give the presentation on video.
And you're looking at it and you're saying, wow, if I could be half as good as he is, if I can be
half as good as she is, I'm going to be the star by department or my company or my organization or
my industry.
Now, you don't have to visualize a good speech.
You've actually seen it with your own eyes.
You saw it in advance because you took the time to practice on your cell phone, iPad or computer far
and away.
That is the number one way to get over nerves when it comes to public speaking and presentation skills
and communication skills.
It's also the least popular way of doing it.
So I understand that I spent a lot of my time preaching at people on this.
And when I'm working with them one on one or small groups in person, they don't have a choice.
But when I'm talking to people and trying to help them through an online environment, let's face it,
you can just sit back, click next, click skip.
You don't have to do any of this.
But if you're still nervous or uncomfortable, what good is the course done?
You so that is far and away the number one way to get over nervous, to get over being uncomfortable.
Other tips in order of hierarchy practice in the room where you're actually going to give the speech.
Sometimes you're traveling to a different conference room, a different boardroom, a convention center,
a hotel, get into the space and actually practice next, try to practice in front of people to get
feedback on what they like, what they remember.
Very crucial to build your confidence.
Now, other methods that are out there, I find much, much less effective than those.
But one method is visualization.
You can visualize yourself having a standing ovation.
But what good is a standing ovation if people don't really remember your message and act on it?
Our goal, unless you want to become a professional keynote speaker, is not to get standing ovations,
especially as a beginner.
Your goal was to actually communicate, making sure people understand you and actually remember your
messages.
Another common tactic for getting over fear and preparation is practicing in front of a mirror.
Here's the problem with practicing in front of a mirror.
We all have certain things we don't completely love about our face or eyes or our hairline or nose is
crooked or something.
So when you're practicing in front of a mirror, it's only human nature to look at the things you don't
like in your own face.
Well, how does that help us get more confidence for the speech?
So I do not recommend ever practicing in front of a mirror.
All it does is distract you.
And you're not focusing on what you're actually saying.
You're focusing on looking at yourself.
So I don't recommend that people ask me all the time.
Well, T.J., can I.
Smoked a little marijuana, which is increasingly legal all over the world, or do a shot of liquor
or wine or vodka.
Here's the problem with that approach is it may make you more relaxed, but sometimes that can slightly
impede your ability to have recall.
If you're already nervous speaking, the last thing you want is something that's going to slow your
recall down, because when we're nervous, we don't remember things as well.
If we've had a little alcohol, sometimes even one glass or any other kind of drug, then it can slow
down your ability to remember what you're going to say next.
And if you're already nervous about forgetting what to say and you lose a second, then you end up or
makes you more nervous.
For some people, even a little alcohol can make their face read or make them blush.
That can be distracting.
Also, if you have a drink or two, but I'll assume just one people come up to you afterwards and say,
good presentation, good job, good talk.
They smell alcohol on your breath and this is the first time they've ever met you.
That may be the lasting impression people have.
So I don't recommend that sometimes people try to get fancier.
They want to use beta blockers.
Now, this is a controversial topic.
And I can tell you when I've spoken on this on YouTube and other places, I get massive hate mail telling
me I'm an idiot and a fool and stupid.
But I want to be completely transparent with you and honest based on what I think is actually going
to help you accomplish your goal of giving a presentation and looking comfortable and confident in the
process.
There are drugs, beta blockers that will, in fact reduce your ability to get nervous, you just don't
get as keyed up, you don't get as tensed up.
So it does help your body.
The problem is it doesn't actually solve the underlying problem.
The problem is that if you're not giving a great presentation, if you're not giving an interesting,
memorable presentation, you're likely to be nervous.
If you're no longer nervous about it, but you're still giving a boring or awful presentation.
Hasn't helped matters.
I've had clients who didn't listen to me on this issue, took a beta blocker before going on CNBC,
and they were less nervous.
Unfortunately, the hundreds of thousands of people watching them on TV saw this.
Yes, I'm happy to be here today.
And they sounded zoned out and zombie like and low key and low energy, and they didn't come across
as comfortable and confident, so.
Remember, it's not about you just not shaking.
You need to come across as comfortable, confident, relaxed and interesting, the number one, I've
been saving this for the last.
The number one way.
To not be nervous when you're speaking is to simply focus all of your energies on really helping.
The audience member, what are you doing to make them?
Better.
What are you doing to help their business, their organization, their life?
If you're truly focused on helping them, you don't even have time to think about poor little me.
All of you have seen news reports, I'm sure, of.
You know, a child getting pinned under a truck and then people, sometimes one person, are strong
enough to lift it up, the adrenaline surge, they're focused on saving one child's life.
Because they're not thinking about themselves, they're not thinking about, oh, how does my pant line
look out of my shoes?
Look, they're just running, diving, trying to help when you're speaking.
That's what you need to focus on.
Now, you're not running and diving on an audience member, but if you're so focused on helping your
audience member understand something better, you're not going to be focused.
Oh, how am I doing away?
Scared out of my home.
I'm going to get through this.
And by the way, when the one final bonus bonus you've heard the expression visualize people in their
underwear, visualize your audience naked, horrible advice.
Depending on your audience, it's either too disgusting or too exciting.
Don't focus on your audience in their underwear.
Focus on one individual at a time, helping them, making your ideas come alive to them.
Focus on that.
You won't have time to be nervous.


=== Speaking in Job Interviews ===


--- Never Let These Two Classic Body Language Blunders Slow You Down ---

There are a couple of big picture body language issues I do need to point out now you're going to hear
this and think, well, that's not very profound.
I paid for this.
It may be too obvious to some, but I do want to repeat it.
For a lot of people, the body language that gets them in trouble in the workplace is before they ever
say anything.
It's when they walk into a room to big problems.
Many people encounter no one if they're uncomfortable at all.
They tighten their body and they hunched over.
Does this look like someone you really want to work with?
Go talk to, ask how their day is, collaborate so you don't have to be in the military and have perfect
posture is if a book could balance on your head.
But beware the sort of rounded shoulder hunched over.
It looks like you want to be in your own little world.
I would recommend that you practice your posture and make sure you're upright and just ask people,
ask a family member, ask a friend, I have this problem.
Sometimes I can get round shouldered.
So I've actually used an app before, a little device that pins on right here and it vibrates.
If I don't stand up straight, I'm not necessarily advocating that.
I'm certainly not selling anything within this cause.
But the main thing is you need to do whatever it takes to make sure your posture is good.
The second big thing, what's on your face?
Too many people, if they're uncomfortable in a workplace, it's a new workplace, different colleagues.
Complete blank look on their face and it looks like a frown, that's just a turnoff.
Now there are different cultural beliefs.
Those of you watching in France will say, well, you silly Americans, you smile all the time.
You are going to have to filter this in through the lens of what works in your particular culture.
I realize there are students from more than one hundred and eighty countries, including me and in my
own students as well throughout my courses.
So you're going to have to look at some of this through the lens of your own country.
But in many, many cultures, just having a blank look or a frown, it's going to look like you're not
happy to be there.
So am I recommending you walk around with a big smiley face?
Hi, everybody.
I'm in a cult.
No, but a little bit of a smile can't hurt.
Certainly when you see someone and you walk past them in the hall, a little bit of a smile.
If a smile is pasted on the whole time, then it looks fake, it looks phony, it looks contrived.
But when you're looking at someone and then you do smile a little, it makes you seem human.
It makes you seem likeable.
So this isn't what you paid for in this course.
I know this is so obvious, but it does bear repeating the two big factors that get a lot of people
in trouble with their body language, bad posture and just a blank look or a frown on the face.


=== Speaking on Sales Videos ===


--- Your Nerves Will Never Show Again in the Workplace ---

Let's look at the number one problem when it comes to body language for most people in the workplace,
the good news, it's not just because people are stupid, it's not because they're sexist pigs.
It's not because they're rude people.
The number one source of bad body language in the workplace is just being nervous, being uncomfortable.
And what happens when people are nervous is we become like little bunny rabbits.
We kind of freeze, we stiffen up.
So when we're giving a talk, a presentation meeting with someone talking one on one with a client prospect,
delivering a PowerPoint, doing any form of communication with colleagues, customers, clients, prospects,
when we're nervous, we stop doing the things we do, when we're comfortable, when we're talking,
our hands freeze, our body freezes, our face goes blank and we just tense up.
This gives other people an uncomfortable feeling in their gut about us, if they're feeling uncomfortable
about us, that's working against us, that makes them less likely to want to hire us, to buy from
us, to work with us, to collaborate with us.
So the good news is for so many of you, it's not about learning some huge, huge new skill sets and
memorizing a thousand or one dos and don'ts.
It really comes down to doing a few things to put you back into a state of being comfortable so that
you can project comfort with the people who are around you.
If you do that, it solves the vast majority of problems, not every problem.
I mean, you could be too comfortable in your office and you're putting your feet up on your boss's
desk and your boss is wildly insulted.
Are you doing that at a conference room?
So I don't want to suggest that that's the only problem.
But for most people, most of the time.
It's being nervous, being uncomfortable and tensing the body up, so we are going to spend a fair amount
of time because we saw this problem, we solve almost all the other problems.


=== Giving An Acceptance Speech ===


--- You'll Never Fall for These Body Language Myths Again ---

I'm a big believer in teaching by positive example, focusing on what you should do, not what you shouldn't
do, but I do want to address what I consider to be the three big myths when it comes to body language
in the workplace and body language in general.
The number one myth out there, and I hear this every single week when I'm conducting public speaking
media training workshops with clients, individuals, groups all over the world, someone will bring
this up and the issue is hands.
What do you do with your hands when you're speaking, presenting in a briefing, talking on Skype video
or zoom?
The big myth out there is that somehow it's distracting to move your hands and it's more professional
to hold your hands down.
Nothing could be further from the truth.
Now I monitor audiences all over the world.
I test audiences.
And what I have found, regardless of the culture, regardless of the industry, is that people respond
much more favorably to an individual in a business situation, speaking, presenting, talking.
When that person moves his or her hands, the second you freeze your hands, you freeze your arms,
body your vocal cords and you are going to sound more nervous, stiff, monotone, and you're going
to look stiff.
So huge, huge myth out there.
Now, in theory, is it possible to be wildly gesticulating and distracting?
It's possible.
All I can tell you is that for 30 years I've trained 10000 people all over the globe from six continents.
I've never yet had anyone wildly moving their hands too much.
But every week, sometimes every day in a week, I have people stand up to give a presentation and they
do this or this or grab a lectern.
Their hands are frozen.
They looks stiff, uncomfortable, nervous.
So I want you to get rid of this notion that somehow you're not supposed to move your hands.
Have I ever seen someone move hands too much?
Yeah.
Will Ferrell in a movie where he's being interviewed after winning a race car.
He's like, I don't know what to do with my if it's funny if you're a comedian, but it's not a problem
that affects people in real life.
The second big myth out there that there are certain poses you can take to make yourself more comfortable,
confident, commanding, the most pernicious of all is this one floating around on the Internet.
I won't talk about the proponent by name, but she says if you just stand with your arms and your hands
on your hips like Wonder Woman, you'll be filled with so much confidence it'll help you in any presentation.
This is complete nonsense in my professional view, because if you don't have anything interesting to
say and then when you get in front of people for that speech or talk or presentation or job interview,
you then tense your body up again.
Standing like this for a minute, is it going to do anything?
So get rid of that notion and the solution we'll talk about later in this course, you have to practice
speaking, presenting, talking, asking questions on video.
It's not as popular as standing like Wonder Woman, but it really does solve the problem.
Now, the number one myth out there when it comes to body language, drum roll, I guess the number
one myth is that somehow ninety three percent of all communication is your body language, your voice,
what you do with your body, only seven percent, your words, your content.
This is a myth that's been going around for decades.
It has been widely debunked.
It all stems from a study at UCLA by a professor at Merabet, and he was studying something very different.
His results have been -- by the body's so-called body language experts, public speaking experts
ever since.
It purports to show that how you move your body, what you do with your voice, is infinitely more important
than what you say and that your actual content, your actual words are only seven percent widely debunked.
If you hear any so-called public speaking expert talk about this, you know they are a complete fool.
I'm going to put the citation below.
And you can also Google this and you can see what I'm talking about.
Here's the ultimate test.
If you doubt me, if really everything is body language and your voice and content is only seven percent,
that means you could give a sales presentation to someone who doesn't speak your language.
They would still understand ninety three percent of what you're talking about.
That's obviously patently absurd.
They wouldn't understand anything you're talking about if you're speaking to them in a language they
don't understand.
Now, I obviously think body language is important.
I wouldn't be teaching this course, but I want you to really keep things in perspective.
It's not more important than your actual ideas and your substance.
You have to have both in any form of communication.
It's never just about style.
It's never just about substance.
It's always both.
For example, let's say you're desperate to hire some new employee in your organization.
And I write you a beautiful cover letter, everything you want to see, everything you like, everything
beautiful paper, great punctuation.
But you look at my résumé and I have no relevant work experience in your industry, and I've never held
a job for more than two weeks.
Are you likely to hire me?
Probably not.
In that case, I'll have great style, but no substance.
On the flip side, if I have a beautiful resume, everything you're looking for in your industry.
But I send you a cover letter filled with misspellings, typos, poor grammar, no space between the
words.
What are you going to do?
Chances are you're going to take my resume and my cover letter and throw it in the trash, in this case,
my style will overwhelm my substance.
So I believe in all forms of communication, writing, speaking, talking.
It's never this false dichotomy of style versus substance.
You have to have both.
This course is going to help you with the body language side of things, but realize you've got to have
great substance if you really want to communicate.
And ultimately, that's what is going to have a huge impact on your career.
Body language can help, but without the substance, without good messages, none of this will matter.


=== How to Speak at a Funeral - The Eulogy ===


--- Here Is Exactly What to Do With Your Hands ---

I talked a little bit about hands in an earlier lecture.
I want to go more in depth here because it really is such a huge, huge, in some cases dominant part
of your body language.
And there's a lot of information out there about hands.
There's a lot of complexity, a lot of misinformation.
I want to cut through that and make life easy for you.
Here's a little secret I'll share with you when I'm doing in-person workshops, public speaking workshops
and seminars.
Typically, I tape someone right in the beginning of the morning.
Several times I'll ask them tough questions, ask them to stand up and speak.
Typically, they get nervous, they tense up, they hold their hands awkwardly, they freeze their hands
or they're at least much lower than usual.
And then.
Without turning the camera off, I'll turn the light off, I'll sit back, I'll drop the microphone
on the floor and I'll say, tell me how that feel.
And they'll say, oh, T.J., it felt awful.
I didn't like that.
I'm no good on camera.
So we'll then watch the video, the formal part, and I'll ask them what they think they'll typically
say.
Well, T.J., I look a little scared, nervous, uncomfortable.
And then I just ask them, how would you like to see somebody better than you?
More comfortable than more confident?
They think.
I'm going to show them video of some world class leader, Winston Churchill.
Ronald Reagan.
No.
Instead, I just show them video of themselves where their hands are moving in.
Their hands are expressive.
Here's the dirty little secret.
Most body language experts won't tell you.
You don't need to learn how to do new things with your hands.
What you need to do is to simply move your hands the way you do when you're relaxed and comfortable
in talking to one friend about your favorite sporting event or music event or something you like doing,
because most people move their hands naturally when they're in a work situation, especially if it's
a talk or a briefing, a presentation, a PowerPoint, a Skype video.
We tense up.
And once you stop moving your hands, you stop moving your arms, you tense your arms, you tense your
shoulders, you tense your vocal cords.
Next thing you know, you get this sort of tone of voice.
See how my voice is more monotone now.
My head's not moving.
My face isn't moving.
My body isn't moving.
It sets off a negative chain reaction.
So my recommendation is you want to move your hands again.
You heard me say it before.
Sorry if this seems repetitive, of course, it's theoretically possible someone could be doing this
and being distracting in real life.
I find it doesn't really happen.
So try to move your hands because the second you move your hands, if you are in a work situation and
you're a little bit out of your comfort zone, you'll at least look more comfortable to your audience
because you'll be doing the things that comfortable, confident people do when they speak.
And this is also a problem when you're standing.
Sometimes people hold their hands in front of them fig leaf position or they put their hands behind
them like they've been arrested and handcuffed.
When you're speaking, you can't go wrong with moving your hands.
Now, there's a lot of bad information out there.
People who say, well, never, ever let someone see you point.
So you have to do this.
Well, this looks really weird.
Angela Merkel, the chancellor of Germany, does this weird thing where she's holding her hands like
this, which looks ridiculous.
Nobody in real life is comfortable and relaxed, ever held their hands like this.
You don't go up to a friend at the workplace cafeteria the day after the Olympics and say, wow, did
you see that great downhill racing last night?
No, that's not how people move their hands.
So you don't need to worry about doing this, doing this.
I think it's baloney, this idea that your fingers can never point in a direction.
Yeah.
You probably don't want to be going like this.
Maybe someone could see that is threatening.
But again, in my experience, that's not what most people do.
There are other body language experts will tell you, well, you've got to narrow it and it has to be
in this box.
I find that's overcomplicated for most people.
In most situations, what you're after is natural movement.
If you do that, people will feel more relaxed and comfortable.
You'll feel more relaxed and comfortable.
Your voice will be richer, more conversational, have greater range, everything will be in sync,
and you won't look like you're acting and being phony and trying to have powerful body language.
Just, by the way, if you're going to be good at body language, you shouldn't ever look like you're
trying to do something to have good body language.
It should come across much more natural, non noticeable.
But please keep in mind the hands, the hands really are key.
And you're not to learn anything new.
Just do what you normally do with your hands.


=== Speaking at a Wedding! ===


--- The Composed, Confident Video Star ---

One big change in the workplace these days is that more and more of us are being asked to present talk
work on video 20, 30, 40 years ago, that wasn't the case.
Only the CEOs were asked to go on 60 Minutes or go on some big primetime TV show or be a part of the
official welcoming training video these days.
Pretty much anybody who could be the first day on your job and asked to speak on video even before you
get the job, your interview could take place on Skype video.
So I want to give you some tips here on how you can communicate on video.
Doesn't matter if it's a job interview on Skype video, a meeting on Zoome creating a Facebook live
or YouTube for most people.
When they see a camera in front of them, the natural instinct is to.
Tense up, so I want to give you the basics of how you can look comfortable, confident, relaxed and
use your body effectively.
Now, you've already heard me talk about hands.
You want to move your hands when you speak.
Most people, when they're staring at a video for Skype or for Zoom are doing Google Hangouts.
Their whole body just freezes.
So get your hands moving.
But let's step back.
Even before that, when the video cameras on you, the natural reaction is to have kind of a frozen
blank look, big, big problem.
You want to move your head, you want to move your face.
It's going to seem awkward staring at a little piece of machinery to move your head and move your face.
But if you don't do that, you're going to look like you are part of a hostage video and someone has
a gun to you.
So you really want to make sure you're moving your head and moving your face.
Next, you want to move your body.
I'm not doing a big dance here, but I'm moving my body.
When I'm saying certain words, I lean forward, I lean back.
And that's going to make you come across more comfortable, confident and relaxed.
And as we talked about, you're going to get tired of me saying this.
Move your hands.
When you move your hands, your body moves.
You're more likely to move your face.
So these are some of the basics of how you can look comfortable on camera.
Now, something that's very noticeable are your eyes.
If you're doing any kind of on camera communication, there's going to be a tendency to want to look
up.
I'm glad you asked me that.
When you look up on camera, it looks like you're just making up stuff.
You're just basing it's not a good look.
So I recommend that you don't look up if you had to look away, look down for a second.
The other problem that people have is they're looking to the side.
Hi.
Yes.
I'm really honest and trustworthy.
I like to tell you about my offshore hedge fund where you should send all your kids college money and
your retirement funds.
See that?
I'm literally shifty.
I don't do that.
Just look at the camera.
If you occasionally want to look down, that's fine.
But most of the time you should look at the camera.
You'll come across more believable, more likable.
Now, here's the part a lot of you really want to hear.
You see yourself on camera and you think, oh, I don't look like that.
I look a lot worse.
I look heavier.
I look fatter.
Hey, we all have some level of vanity.
So let me give you some basics.
Any time you're on a video camera, if you sit back, relax.
How do I look, you see about three channels now, you might not have as much extra weight as I do and
you might not have double chins, but if you sit back relaxed in a chair, you will look heavier and
fatter and the camera is going to latch on to whatever it's closer to your body.
In some cases, your stomach.
So sitting back relaxed is the least flattering.
Look, any time you're on a video camera, the next worst thing is someone with so-called perfect posture.
You see people like this on major news networks, financial networks.
Hi, my name is TJ Walker.
Media training worldwide.
I help people look comfortable, relaxed and confident on TV.
How does that come across?
Horrible, right, I look stiff, nervous and uncomfortable, so you can't have perfect posture, need
to hold yourself up high, lean forward about 15 degrees into the camera.
Now you see a stronger jawline.
Now you see less of my body.
My body's not as prominent.
If the camera were further back, you wouldn't notice my stomach as much either.
So holding yourself high, leaning forward any time you're speaking on camera, whether it's network
TV, we'll talk about TV in the next lecture or just a simple webcam, an iPad and iPhone.
Anytime there's a camera, this is the angle you want.
Also, as we talked about earlier, you want the camera a couple of inches above your eyes.
So many Skype, video interviews, meetings, Zun, they look awful in part because it's just too low.
And the solution is very simple.
We get a stack of books and you put your camera, your iPad, even your cell phone on that stack of
books so that it's a couple of inches above your eye.
Now, speaking of the posture again from the side, this doesn't look particularly natural.
You can see it just looks a little weird, but.
For the person who's watching you, it doesn't look weird at all, you'll simply look more comfortable,
confident and relaxed.
Now, if you're doing any kind of Facebook live Google Hangouts and you're standing and it's showing
more of your body, what I'd recommend, again, move your hands.
A lot of people will move their hands when they're seated.
They stand up.
They suddenly feel naked.
They do the whole fig leaf thing in front of them.
And it looks like they have to go to the bathroom or they hold their hands behind them as if they've
been handcuffed and are off to prison.
You want to have your hands down by your side as soon as you start talking, move your hands.
The other problem a lot of people have for anything that is standing as they may have their feet shoulder
width apart.
And before you know it, they're doing this.
Hi.
I'd like to tell you about all the good things we do at media training worldwide with our in-person
workshops.
Unfortunately, you're now getting seasick.
It's distracting.
So don't stand with your feet shoulder width apart.
Easy solution.
Have one foot forward, one foot back.
That's what I'm doing now and I really can't rock sideways.
I'd fall over if I'm a little nervous and I'm rocking, I'll rock front and back.
It's much less noticeable on camera because of the lack of depth perception.
So these are basics of how you will look, your best sound, your best come across comfortable, confident,
relaxed any time you're in front of a camera.
Now, this is not an audio video production course, but we are concerned about how you sound and the
video.
One of the big problems with Skype video other conferencing is the audio is so bad.
If you're going to be doing conference calls, Skype, video Zoome meetings for about fifteen dollars,
you can buy a microphone.
This is what's called a lot of lavalier microphone.
It clips on my shirt, can flip on your jacket, a dress, a tie.
You plug it into your computer, you could plug it into your iPhone or any other cell phone.
It makes the audio quality so much better.
People can hear you better and see you better.
Then you're really going to come across much more effective, whether you're conducting a meeting with
sales reps around the world or clients or prospects from two different continents if they're seeing
you.
But the audio sounds fuzzy.
It's a little odd now in some cases, just using the earbuds that come with a lot of cell phones, the
microphone can be better if you want to really take it up a notch.
Something I use for Skype video interview is very simple and I just keep it right next to me at all
times.
That way I can just pick it up even if it falls on the floor.
And it's an ear piece, just like you say, professional broadcasters.
I put it in my ear, I clip it to the back of my shirt or back in my jacket if I'm wearing a suit this
way, you don't see all the the the wires and you're not seeing a big headset.
So it creates a cleaner look and a cleaner appearance.
If you're just listening to the person you're speaking to on a speaker, you can create a feedback loop,
create echoes and be distorting.
This only cost twenty dollars on Amazon.
I'm not here selling anything and there's no links or affiliates or anything like that.
But you can search on Amazon any electronic store of your choice.
But it's a little thing like that that can make your audio come across much, much better.
So those are the basics of how you'll come across with better body language.
You'll sound better and look better any time you're in the workplace having to communicate in front
of a video camera.


=== How to Deliver a Ceremonial Speech ===


--- Never Spotlight Your Blunders and Mistakes Again ---

The biggest moment for a lot of people when it comes to their body language in the workplace is when
they screw up.
Now we're all human beings.
We all make mistakes, and it's natural to be embarrassed.
The problem is, if you're giving any sort of speech, presentation, talk, a briefing and the people
don't really know you that much and you're going through serious business matters, it's that look of
that awkwardness, that embarrassment.
It becomes the most emotional moment of the whole talk, the whole presentation, the whole time when
they're experiencing it, it becomes the most memorable part.
That's a problem.
Now, it may generate sympathy, but that's not the main emotion we want to be getting out of our coworkers,
colleagues and clients.
We want them focused on how we can help them work with them, be an asset to them.
So I want to give you some tips.
For example, in the last video, I messed up.
I screwed up.
You may remember or you may not.
I went to grab my earpiece.
To make a point, I couldn't find it, I looked around, it was on the floor, I bent down and I picked
it up, so I made a mistake, hey, I'm human.
But here's what I didn't do.
I didn't go, oh, my God, where it is it?
Oh, I'm so sorry.
I didn't stop and spotlight it.
In my experience, it's never the mistakes people make in business presentations, meetings, talks,
briefings.
It's their reaction to their mistakes.
That's what gets people into trouble and unfortunately can even destroy careers.
Those of you who follow United States politics may remember there was a time a couple of political seasons
ago when the governor of Texas was running for president and he at that time was the front runner.
He was asked a question, what government agencies would he cut?
And he said, I will cut the following four agencies.
I will cut the Department of Energy, the Department of Commerce, the Environmental Protection Agency,
and that, uh uh.
Oh, uh.
Oops, that completely solidified everyone's impression of him, it destroyed his political campaign.
He went from number one to dead last.
And I would submit to you it wasn't because he forgot something.
It was his body language.
It was his voice.
It was the sense of, oh, I feel so awful, so embarrassed you caught me.
I feel like it was such a powerful moment that it became the most memorable thing anyone could remember
about him.
And that was the big problem.
Now, contrast, four years later, there was another politician from Texas running a senator.
He said, if I am elected president, I will eliminate the following four government agencies.
And he listed three of them and he repeated one.
But he didn't act embarrassed, he didn't act bothered.
He just kept on going and he said it like he said the best answer ever.
No one even noticed.
He only mentioned three instead of four until a day or two later.
By that time, no one had formed any negative impressions based on that answer.
It did not hurt his campaign at all.
And he ended up coming in first place, but he did get second place so that campaign performance didn't
hurt him at all.
So the real lesson here is not that we have to be on all the time and be perfect.
It's certainly not that you can never make a mistake.
The body language lesson, though, is if you're giving a speech, a presentation, a talk, and it's
not people you work with every single day and you're really close with in the workplace.
If you make a mistake, if you forget something, don't beat yourself up in front of the public.
Don't act embarrassed.
Don't start apologizing.
Just do what I did.
You need a couple of seconds.
Pick up what you need.
Keep going.
Most of the time, no one will remember.
If they do remember, it's not the dominant memory.
So remember, it's not your mistakes that get you into trouble.
It's typically your body language, your vocal change, reactions to your mistakes, showing embarrassment,
learn to control that and your mistakes really won't cut against you.


=== How to Give a Retirement Speech ===


--- You are Now Ready for Prime Time TV ---

For most people in the workplace, the most stressful situation for your body language is when you're
asked to speak on television.
Now, we talked earlier about video, whether it's just on your cell phone, Skype video, and that
can be stressful.
But if you're in a big TV studio, bright lights, camera operators coming around, perhaps a prominent
host grilling you with questions.
For most people, that's the most nerve racking.
And these days, it's not just the CEO.
There are so many cable niche networks, networks that are focused on subsections of subsections of
industries.
You could be a twenty four year old product manager at a company or a junior product manager at a trade
convention and be asked to speak on behalf of your whole company on some niche TV network.
Could be an online TV network.
So you need to be prepared for this.
You know, say, oh, no, I'm not a An on camera person.
If you want to be successful in the workplace today, you've got to think of yourself as someone who
can communicate at any time, anywhere about what you do and what your organization does.
So all the same rules from before video apply.
You want to hold yourself high, lean forward about 15 degrees.
You want to make sure you move your hands, your body, your face.
You don't want to be frozen at all.
You don't want your eyes to go back and forth.
You don't want a blank look on your face.
You need a little bit of a smile.
But there are additional challenges when you're on TV.
So, for example, if a reporter or talk show host is interviewing you, where do you look?
Hi, Jane, I'm really glad you asked me that question.
Yes, I'm very trustworthy and honest.
See how bad that looks when my eyes shift back and forth.
Here's the rule of thumb.
If there is a human being talking to you and you see the person, the reporter, the host, just look
at the person, ignore the camera.
You cannot go wrong ignoring the camera.
If there's a person there, occasionally you may be asked to do an interview through satellite interview
or through Skype and you have an earpiece and you can't see the person asking you questions in that
case.
Then just look at the camera.
But you're likely to be more nervous than just doing a little Skype meeting in your office.
So you're even more tempted to freeze, have your eyes bug out.
Don't forget to blink.
Don't forget to move head, face, body, and you'll be OK.
Other things a little different about TV.
You can get away with no makeup if it's a little hand-held Skype video or face time with a colleague
or two.
But when you're on TV, people could be looking at you on a giant screen.
So even if your skin is normally flawless and mine isn't, imperfections will show up, be magnified,
your face will look oily, greasy, even if it's not.
So my recommendation, even if the TV station or network doesn't provide it, put some powder on yourself.
All you really need is a mosaic powder that doesn't change the color of your skin.
You don't want to make yourself look like you're getting a tan and you don't want to whiten yourself
either.
You want it to not change the color of your skin.
I have powder all over my face now because I want to reduce the shine.
In case any of you are looking at this on bigger screens, if you're watching on a cell phone, it probably
doesn't matter.
So that's one big difference.
When you're in a studio, sometimes it's more intimidating.
There are a lot of people around.
People can be talking.
You've got to.
Zone out, ignore all that and just focus on the person asking you the questions.
Look at that person.
Look at the camera, you might be put in a chair that swivels.
Don't swivel, you want to move, but just from the waist up, not from the waist down will be highly
distracting and you'll look nervous and uncomfortable.
So those are the basics of how your body language will come across your best any time you're on television.


=== Delivering a New Business Pitch ===


--- The Number 1 Tip for Curing Body Language Problems Is... ---

I want to give you my number one tip, my number one solution to solving all of your body language problems
and actually making you agree, this is absolutely the number one tip for really helping people be at
their most effective when it comes to their body language.
This is also the tip that is the absolute least popular tip with all of my students.
So I'm warning you right now is absolutely works.
It's extraordinarily effective and people hate doing it.
Is it hard to do, like getting up at 4:00 in the morning and jogging 10 miles to get in shape for the
Olympics?
No.
Is it physically tough, like learning how to make a hole in one on the golf course or dunk a basketball?
No.
Is it physically painful?
No, it's just people don't like to do it.
Here's the number one tip.
If you really want to see how your body language is and how it could or could not be working and how
to improve it and really know that you're coming across your best, there's one thing you need to do.
You need to pull your cell phone out, pull up the option for recording video, and you need to practice
your speech, your presentation, your talk, your job interview points, even raising your hand to
ask a question at an annual meeting where you're a little nervous because there's two hundred employees
from around the world.
You need to practice on video, look at it, figure out what do you like.
What do you not like and then here's the part you're going to dislike even more.
You have to redo it.
Again and again and again, until you're convinced it's the best you can do and you actually like your
body language, you think you look relaxed, comfortable, confident, you like how your voice sounds.
You don't see anything distracting.
It might take you two takes and each one is a minute.
You do it, review it, do another one, review it.
That's four minutes.
So don't tell me you don't have time to do this.
There's always time for anything that's important.
This is, frankly, the biggest difference between the final results for any of my students who work
with me in person for a day versus online when I'm working with someone in person or a group, whether
it's a CEO, a president, a prime minister or a Nobel Peace Prize winner or someone just like you,
they don't have a choice.
I get them on camera a dozen times.
And we review it throughout the day so they don't leave until they love how their body language is coming
across and it can be done in a day, even someone starting off at the base level also working on every
aspect of a complicated speech or media interview.
You can do it at home, in a cab office, in an Uber, just practice looking at it like people don't
like to do it.
I understand.
But there's simply no other way you're going to know how your body language is coming across, people
spend so much time writing and rewriting, rearranging the bullet points on a PowerPoint, and then
they get up to give a speech and they're stiff and frozen and boring, blah, blah, blah, blah.
And they look scared.
And the only thing anyone remembers is scared.
That person didn't practice on video because this video camera and it could be an iPad, a webcam,
any kind of camera camcorder, the video is the only thing that's really going to tell you how your
body comes across.
Now, you shouldn't practice in a mirror, because if you're practicing what you want to say in a mirror,
you're thinking, oh, my hairline getting worse, am I getting more jowls?
Everyone has certain weaknesses.
I don't recommend you practice in a mirror.
I recommend you practice, have it recorded.
Then look at it.
And I know some of your like quickly trying to push the next lesson.
Next lesson.
How do I get away from this?
I don't want to hear this at some level.
This is kind of like, you know, one of the diet health gurus saying, look, if you're obese, we
can talk about pills and we can talk about this and all sorts of things.
But at some level, you're going to have to reduce calorie consumption in a day if you really want to
get to a normal weight at some level, if you really want to come across your best and to know exactly
how you look, how you sound, you need to video record yourself, ideally before every kind of presentation,
talk, briefing, job interview, Skype interview, media interview you do in the workplace.


=== Extra Videos ===


--- The Real Way to Improve Your Body Language Confidence ---

I've been pretty easy on you so far, I haven't asked you to do a lot of homework, I haven't asked
you to take a lot of tests.
That's by design because I'm building up for something right now.
I am going to ask you to do something.
Unfortunately, I already know most of you won't do it because this is something I ask in all of my
communication classes, less than one percent of my students do it.
It's not hard.
It's not physically demanding, it's not time consuming, and it costs nothing.
When I'm going to ask you to do is to practice saying something that you have to talk about in your
workplace recorded on videos we talked about before.
Keep doing it, keep refining it, keep looking at it, figure out what you like, what you don't like.
Then once you've come up with one that you think represents you at your best, the best you can do,
put it on YouTube, Facebook, somewhere you can put on a private or unlisted setting and then post
the link in the discussion section right here.
I promise you, I'll look at it.
I'll give you feedback on your body language.
I can tell you right now, if you are reading a script, it's going to be obvious to everyone and that
puts people to sleep and makes you seem robotic and can't.
But I'm going to look at your video.
I'm going to give you my honest feedback now in order to help you the most and to save time for everyone.
Don't just do it once and put it up there.
You have a lifetime of experience of looking at bad, awkward, nervous people in school and business
in the work world, you already know what you don't like, what gives you sort of an unhappy feeling,
uncomfortable feeling in the pit of your stomach.
So if you see that, change it, keep doing it.
And these can be sure these could be 20 seconds long if you want, but then post it.
And I'll take a look, critique it, your fellow students, we'll take a look and critique it.
We're all in this together.
No one's interested in making fun of you because everyone's worried about their own stuff, their own
issues.
OK, so don't use that as an excuse.
I really appreciate it if you do.
If you don't, I'll still love you.
But I won't feel is satisfied that I really helped you if you don't post your video.


=== Your Public Speaking Library Has Just Expanded ===


--- Great Body Language for Your Presentations ---

So how do you get better control over your body language when you're giving a speech or presentation
and I'll define this as you're talking to more than a couple of people, it's something on an agenda.
It's not somebody just asking you a question.
And you talk you're giving a speech or presentation.
Not necessarily.
PowerPoint will cover that in the next lecture.
But you're giving a speech.
You have some set of core content.
What are the body language tips you need to follow, the biggest one, as I've talked about in the last
couple of videos, is you've never ready to give a presentation to anyone in the workplace unless you've
actually practiced it on video and looked at it and gotten it to the point where you like how you're
coming across.
If you do that, it solves virtually all problems.
But let me give you even more specifics.
The biggest problem for so many people in the workplace, especially if they're not really seasoned,
experienced presenters, is they think of a presentation or a speech as an opportunity to dump a tremendous
amount of data.
So what happens is they're now reading all sorts of papers.
Their head is down, they're reading quickly, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Monotone sets in, no eye contact, no movement.
And it creates this negative chain reaction.
Everything shuts down with your body language.
You're not looking at people.
You're not pausing.
You're not gesturing.
You're not moving.
Nothing's happening except words coming out of your mouth in an unnatural speech pattern unnaturally
quickly, way too fast, too monotone.
And it just puts people to sleep.
Or these days, everyone has a great plan B if you're at a business meeting and you're giving a boring
presentation, it's called let me check my email and see where am I going to go to dinner tonight.
One of my pals up to my spouse wants me to pick em.
Don't give people an opportunity to do that.
If you're ignoring them, they're going to ignore you.
Most people now, and this is clearly not a body language class for dating and singles people, but
you've probably heard you're on a date.
You don't ignore your date and start playing with your cell phone.
If you expect your date to think very highly of you, you can't ignore your date across a dinner table
and expect them to give you attention.
Well, it's no different when you're giving a speech or a presentation.
I know it feels different, but if you ignore your audience, they're going to ignore you.
So you need to be looking at your audience most of the time.
Well, T.J., how do I remember what to say?
Quick tip, the easiest way to remember what to say is not to stay up late memorizing.
That's hard.
That's difficult.
In most cases, it's not going to be practical to bring a teleprompter everywhere.
And if you read bullet points off of a PowerPoint, that is the kiss of death.
The easiest way to be comfortable when you're presenting is to condense everything to a single sheet,
a single cheat sheet, very large font.
Now, my vision isn't particularly good, but I've made the font large enough that I want to put my
glasses on.
It's just two or three words for each line.
Therefore, I don't have to read and find the right paragraph and figure out where to start.
Then I just go right to the beginning.
So this is actually an outline for a presentation I give that's an hour long because it's a single sheet
of paper.
I don't have to turn pages because it's a single sheet of paper.
In large part, I don't have to stop each time.
Hold on then down.
Put my glasses on.
All of those distracting things I can just glance down occasionally.
This also gives me the ability.
And then here's the real secret sauce when it comes to body language when you present because it's all
on a single sheet.
And I know what's coming.
I can actually walk around the room.
Do you have to walk around the room when you're giving a presentation?
No, but all great professional speakers do that.
If you do it, it's going to make you look so much more relaxed, comfortable and confident because
nervous speakers never do that.
They grab the lectern for dear life who let me stand behind this case.
Someone wants to throw rotten fruit at me because I'm horrible.
Don't stand behind a lectern.
The person behind you might the person who speaks after you might.
You don't have to speak behind a lectern.
Now, you don't have to be running all around the room and putting on a big show, but just even walking
a couple of feet to your left and a couple of feet to your right will make you look so much more relaxed,
comfortable and confident.
Here's an advance tip.
Now, it's three times the technology budget, but wildly effective.
What I do with my own notes, I have three identical sheets of paper with my notes.
So instead of two cents for a sheet of paper, it's six cents for three sheets of paper.
And I'll have these scattered throughout the room, one on the lectern, one on a table, twenty feet
to one even in the back of the room.
So if I'm speaking for an hour, I can be walking around the whole time.
And it's as if I'm just having a conversation with the audience this way.
It takes all the pressure off of my memory because I know I've got a roadmap when I'm freed up from
worrying about how to remember, I don't have to scrunch up my face.
I think, oh, what's next?
What's next?
Let me worry about I can just be in the moment.
And I can look at people in the audience, eye contact is a very powerful thing when you're presenting,
there's basically three types of eye contact when you're giving a speech or a presentation.
And it is a little different than if it's just one on one or you're in a meeting with two people, the
bottom one percent of speakers, they're staring at the floor or they're just reading they're bullet
points or they're looking at their computer screen or they're just staring at a script they're completely
ignoring.
You colleague of yours could stand up on the table, light his or her hair on fire, and you'd never
notice because you're just staring at your text.
That's what the bottom one percent of speakers do.
Then there's the next sort of ninety eight point nine percent of speakers.
They're doing some version of the windshield wiper, especially if they're talking to more than 10 people.
They're looking at the whole crowd the whole time.
So when you're in the audience, you never feel like that speaker, that colleague, that presenter
is really talking to you.
And because of that, you feel anonymous.
It's almost like you're in a dark room.
Well, what do you like to do when you're in a dark room and something isn't that exciting?
You check, email, text, Facebook, you don't want that to happen.
You don't want people to think you're ignoring them, therefore it's OK for them to ignore you.
So the real secret with body language when it comes to your eyes when you're presenting is you want
to lock eyes with one person for a full thought, just a couple of sentences, then go to another person
in the room, lock eyes with that person for a full thought.
Then give it to another person, it needs to be random, it can't be bump, bump, bump, bump, that
makes you seem like a robot.
So let me clarify, because people mhere this, they say, oh, so T.J., you're just saying look at
one friendly face the whole time in the front row.
Now, that would be weird.
If I'm staring at one person for five minutes, that's going to weird that person out.
Plus everyone else will feel ignored.
What I'm suggesting is it's proportional.
Normally, if your eyes are scanning, you're only looking at someone for, you know, a tenth of a
second or a fifth of a second because your eyes are moving the whole time.
So if you actually stop and say a sentence or two to one person, that's only four or five seconds.
But proportionally, it's so much bigger than the eye scan, that person's going to feel like, wow,
she really spoke to me.
He spoke to me.
It forces them to pay attention.
It feels like you care about them and it's going to make them want to care more about you.
That's what we're trying to do in any form of business communication.
We're trying to get people to pay attention, have the sense that we care about them and make them want
to work with us.
Now, the beauty of this method is in so many business situations, you're asked to speak for five,
ten minutes and there's fewer than 20 people in the room.
You can give every single person in the room individualized eye contact.
Because it's only five seconds per person, so that's an awful lot of people you can connect with every
single minute.
Now, this technique even works if you're asked to speak at a large business conference, let's say
it's an annual convention or an international convention.
You're on a stage at a big convention center.
Bright lights on you and it's dark out there.
You can't even see people.
Believe it or not, this technique still works.
You just pick one spot 20 feet out and you hold that for a full thought.
Then you go to another part of the audience and you look out there and the 20 people in that area will
all feel like, wow, she really spoke to me.
These people.
Wow, he really spoke to me.
So it still works.
And to everyone else, you'll look more confident because so many speakers, even if their hand gestures
are good, even if their voice is good when they're in front of a lot of people, they have this kind
of lost look.
They're looking at this massive sea of humanity and so many elements of their body language may be just
right.
Their hands, their body, their movement, their voice.
But if their eyes just look like they're in total amazement and lost and nervous, that's going to undercut
their message.
So those are the basics of how you can really improve your body language when it comes to giving presentations
and speeches.
I'll give you more tips on the specifics of PowerPoint and other speaking situations and following lectures.


=== Student Questions - Presentation Skills - Advanced Speak Without Reading Notes ===


--- PowerPoint Will Never Turn You Into a Robotic Bore Again ---

A lot of people are really comfortable, good communicators, one on one, small groups giving speeches
and presentations.
But the second you have them give a PowerPoint presentation, all their body language shuts down and
they now are is nervous, uncomfortable, stiff, boring as anyone.
And it's just awful.
So I'm going to give you a few tips on PowerPoint.
For starters, never look at your PowerPoint.
PowerPoint is for your audience.
It's not for you.
If you need notes, as we talked about in a previous lecture, here's a sheet of paper.
If you are going to read bullet points off of PowerPoint, let me ask you this.
How do you like it when people read to you?
This is a question I ask people all over the world when I'm conducting in-person public speaking workshops.
And universally, everybody says the same thing I hate.
Boring.
I checked my email because here's the thing, if you are reading PowerPoint, the one thing we know
is you've now completely destroyed your ability to connect with your audience, with your eyes, because
you can't look at them.
So you can't use this as the poor man's the poor woman's teleprompter if you're using PowerPoint and
hey, I'm not a. PowerPoint.
I love PowerPoint, I have courses on PowerPoint, I use PowerPoint.
So my best friends are PowerPoint.
But don't let it destroy your body language.
You aren't giving a PowerPoint presentation.
You're giving your presentation.
When you stand up or sit down and you're using PowerPoint, realize you're not giving a PowerPoint presentation
any more than I'm giving an electricity presentation today or a light presentation.
I'm using electricity, I'm using lights.
But those are just tools to help me with my main goal of communicating important messages to help you
with your business career.
So when you're using PowerPoint, realize it's your presentation, you have to make the ideas come alive.
You have to look at people.
You have to gesture.
You have to walk around, you have to ask people questions and then listen to them, and if you want
to use PowerPoint slides, fine, but realize that is one small piece of the puzzle.
And just because you have PowerPoint slides doesn't mean you're now wedded to standing behind the lectern.
Lock down like a prisoner.
For the next hour.
You can get some kind of a clicker.
You can walk over occasionally and manually do it.
You don't want to let that constrain you.
You can give a great PowerPoint presentation and let people have a good impression of your body language
if you do the right things.
Of course, the number one tip get, you're not going to like it.
Practice your PowerPoint presentation on video.
Look at it, keep redoing it until you love what you see, most of my clients, when they see a video
of themselves delivering a PowerPoint presentation the first time, their first reaction is always,
oh, my God, that's boring as all get out.
I wouldn't want to watch it.
What do you think?
And my response to them is, well, you seem like a smart person.
If you think it's a really boring guess what it is, keep practicing on video until you love your style
and substance with your PowerPoint presentation.


=== Conclusion - Presentation Skills - Advanced Speak Without Reading Notes ===


--- Confident Briefing to Colleagues and Others ---

The next scenario, you're giving a briefing to someone in the office or your organization and you're
seated now, this can seem easier.
You're not standing in front of a whole bunch of people.
You're not as self-conscious about your body and your hands.
But there's still things you need to watch out for.
For starters, don't get too comfortable.
There's the tendency to think, well, it's just seated and you're leaning, you're slumped over, maybe
looking at your screen.
My recommendation, I want you to be comfortable, but I would still hold myself high, lean forward
and not have my hands touching the table when talking.
If you're listening to someone, by all means, have your hands on the table.
But when you're talking gesture, you'll come across more comfortable, more confident and relaxed.
Too many people put their hands down.
Once you put your hands down, you slope.
Everything's all wrinkled, crumpled, looking.
Nobody looks is good that way.
Plus there's less energy in your voice because you're not moving your hands and your body.
The other thing to realize is it's still your briefing, your presentation.
You may want someone to look at a computer screen or maybe you're projecting it, or maybe it's a handout.
But you should be looking at the person or persons you're briefing all the other material.
That's for them.
It's not for you.
And it may seem like a lower threshold.
Less scarier thing.
You should still practice on video before doing it.


=== Foundations of Note-Free Presentations ===


--- Keynote Speeches Will Showcase Your Calm and Confidence ---

Keynote speech is in front of large audiences.
That's the scariest thing for most people in the workplace.
It may never happen to you.
It may happen once every five years, maybe once a year.
And a big annual convention for everyone in your industry.
But you're up on a stage.
You may have one hundred five hundred a thousand five thousand people looking at you.
And for most people, it is scary.
So you get the nerves coming even if you're normally a confident speaker.
The problem, of course, with your nerves is you're tempted to change yourself, to calm your nerves.
So you're tempted to do things like read a speech, read bullet points, use a teleprompter.
For the most part, all of those ideas are horrible ideas.
You need to still practice the fundamentals, have a basic cheat sheet with your notes that you can
glance down and look at.
Here's the thing.
People don't believe me when I tell them this.
It's actually easier to speak in front of a really large audience than a small audience and form a good
impression on the audience because at some level they're looking at you up on stage and they're impressed
already that you're willing to get up there because most people's biggest fear is speaking and speaking
in front of a large audience.
So the fact that you're up there, they give you credit, they give you points.
Here's the other thing.
So we talked about earlier.
If you simply walk around the stage when you speak.
People will be wow, did you see that she was so confident, he was so covid, he just walked around
and I could never do that.
Well, here's the thing.
Any three year old child can walk and talk.
I don't know of any other professional activity where you just doing something that a three year old
can do.
People are impressed by it.
If you're just eating food or laughing, no one's going to give you credit for that.
But walking and talking in front of a large group seems really hard.
It seems scary.
So people perceive it as a much harder task and they give you a lot more credit for it.
So practice walking.
I won't belabor the point, but even more so in a keynote speech.
You need to practice on video until you're comfortable with it.
Something else that can help practicing in the actual room where you're giving this speech, because
if you practice in your own small office, for example, or home and you're really comfortable, and
now you get to the convention center and it's this gigantic cavernous place and you can't even see the
back of the room, it's going to feel scary if you're up there in front of people the whole time.
Something else that will make you more relaxed, get there early, walk around the whole edge of the
room, get comfortable, actually touch the chairs as you walk around.
I know it sounds silly and kind of new agey, but it does actually work.
It makes you more comfortable and because you're more comfortable, you'll be able to move again and
sound natural.
And that's what's key here.
So even if you never, ever take my advice on practicing on video, make an exception for the big keynote
speeches because nothing can cement your career.
In a more powerful, positive way than a great keynote speech.
Think of what Steve Jobs presentations did for his career, his business, because they were so powerful.
On the other hand, if you make a really awful presentation, people remember that, too.
The stakes are higher, but the rewards are much higher to.


=== Developing Your Cognitive Frameworks ===


--- Use a TelePrompTer Like a Network News Anchor ---

If it hasn't happened to you already, it's going to happen soon, I'm seeing it everywhere in the workplace
and that is the rise of the use of teleprompters, their teleprompter apps you can have on your cell
phone, on your iPad.
And there may be times when this is effective for those who don't know what it is, you type in your
script and then it scrolls across and you can look at it.
You can have a through the lens teleprompter.
You can have one that's right next to the camera.
When you're seeing a State of the Union address in most countries, the president or the prime minister
is using what newscasters use them.
So it allows someone to read while looking up at people or the camera.
So sounds great.
Why wouldn't you use this all the time?
Sounds wonderful.
You don't have to remember what to say.
You don't have to look at.
Now, why wouldn't everyone use a teleprompter?
Saves a lot of time, right?
It's not that simple, folks.
My recommendation is you should not use a teleprompter most of the time.
In most situations, if you are a president of a country or a prime minister or a finance minister and
any single word out of your mouth is analyzed, sliced, diced, people are looking at it.
It could cause scandal, economic turmoil.
There is a good reason to use a teleprompter.
But let's face it, for most of us and most businesses, even CEOs of big companies, the biggest danger
in life is not that we have one word taken out of context and something gets the biggest problem is
nobody remembers anything we say.
So let's focus on the real challenge.
So my recommendation from a pure body language standpoint, don't use a teleprompter because it's a
lot harder to do.
You're trying to do something you don't normally do when you're reading your whole life.
You're used to reading like this.
You've got a cell phone, an iPad here, a newspaper, a book you're not used to reading with a whole
lot of people staring at you reading text.
It's five or ten or twenty feet away.
It's a very unnatural thing.
What happens when people feel unnatural all of a sudden they feel like this.
And I am now reading my teleprompter and wow, this is great because I do not have to memorize it.
How awful that is.
OK, so I've done my due diligence, my proper procedure there, my boilerplate.
Now let me tell you what you need to know if you're going to actually use the teleprompter from a body
language standpoint, it all comes down to five tips.
Tip number one, you need to vary your speed, sometimes faster, sometimes slower.
When you're speaking, most people, they get on the teleprompter and they speak at the same speed and
it sounds like a robot.
So you have to vary the speed sometimes faster, sometimes slower.
Next big tip, sometimes louder, sometimes softer, because that's how people talk in real life when
they are engaged and having an interesting conversation.
Most people, when they are reading a teleprompter, everything comes out the same volume, and that's
why they sound robotic and the audience feels empowered to ignore them and start checking their email.
So that's the second big thing.
You've got to change the volume.
There's got to be variation there.
Next thing you've got to do is you got to move your body.
Even though you're using the teleprompter, your hands have to move.
Your body has to move, especially your head, because most people get that headlock.
And when nothing's moving but your eyes, they become very, very noticeable.
And everyone's like, oh, look at them using the teleprompter.
If you're moving your head and your hands and your body.
The eye movement is a part of many, many movements and it's not detectable most of the time.
So that's the third big tip is you need to move your body.
The fourth big tip.
You've got to pause from time to time, real human beings in real conversation when they're finishing
a thought, they'll stop and they're finishing one idea to transition to another.
They'll stop, maybe walk.
You don't need five minute pauses or even five second pauses, but a couple of seconds here and there.
That will make you sound real.
Conversational and not candid, not like you're eating again, for most people who are not professional
news anchors, they never stop.
They go from the next sentence to the next sentence.
Why is that?
Because they're following the speed of the teleprompter.
You're not there to follow the teleprompter.
The teleprompter is there to follow you.
So that's the problem with all these nice, cheap, inexpensive and free apps.
You pick one speed and it forces you to go the same speed.
That's yet another reason not to do not use a teleprompter.
If you can't vary the speed, either someone else doing it for you or you adjusting it with your hand
or a phone or they're even footpads fit foot pedals.
The fifth thing you really need to do if you want to use a teleprompter effectively is it takes even
more rehearsal time than a regular speech with notes because it is harder.
You're going to trip up.
It's very easy to trip on a word.
Then you think, oh, darn, I tripped on a word and you don't want to go back and you can't do it.
So it's even more important than ever to rehearse and to rehearse on video and to not give the teleprompter
speech in real life until you've seen a version of yourself doing it on video that you like.
And that's how you use good body language for a teleprompter.
OK, by the way, did you see about 30 seconds ago, I really stumbled on a word.
I'm trying to practice what I preach here with you, and that is if you make a mistake.
Don't act in horror, don't act appalled.
Don't get all flushed and blush and all just correct yourself and keep going.
By the way, I'm doing this course live to tape.
I'm not doing 10 20 takes, because when you're in the real world and you're speaking in a meeting,
you don't get to do 20 takes.
So I want to show you this.
Warts and all, I am creating this course for you.
It's not live in the sense that people are watching me this second, but I'm doing it once, recording
it.
My editing consists of turning on and turning off with a remote control.
And I need you to get to the point where you're just as comfortable with that thought process when you're
speaking, because that's part of what makes people scared about speaking in the workplace.
Talking to people is you can't sit there and type and edit and refine and put fancy graphics on top
and fancy music on top to redo something.
You got to just put it out there and get it the best you can the first time.


=== Strategies for Reducing Slide Dependency ===


--- Once Last Chance for a Body Language Personal Critique.... ---

So we're about to finish up here.
As you may have noticed, I've been light on the homework and the assignments and all the little quizzes
and tests, because when it comes to body language, I don't find that really helps people that much.
What does help the most is recording yourself on video.
So I'm not going to belabor it any more.
This will be the last time.
But I want to give you one last opportunity.
And you know what?
You can come back to this course two years later and I'll still honor it.
But I want to give you one last opportunity to practice some kind of a speech, talk, presentation,
briefing, job interview, whatever it is where you're speaking in a workplace environment, record
it, redo it until you think it's the best you can and then post the you are all from YouTube, Facebook,
any place else right here in the discussion box.
I will watch it.
I will give you my feedback, my honest opinion of what you're doing.
Well, but also if there are things you need to improve.
So that's my promise to you.
Most of you are not going to take me up on it.
That's OK.
But those of you who really want to get to the higher level, take me up on this.
You've already paid for the cause.
Why not?
And if you don't do it today, you can come back six months from now.


=== Masting Verbal Delivery ===


--- Making Sure Your Clothes Are Communicating Your Positive Story ---

A part of your body language in the workplace is what you're wearing, how your hair is styled now,
there's no one perfect what it varies from industry to industry.
If you are a modern artist, you don't want to dress in a conservative boring suit and tie and conservative
clothing.
If you are working in a very conservative traditional mutual fund where everyone else wears a suit and
tie, you probably don't want to show up in a lion shirt and shorts.
A lot of this is just common sense and yet people often violated.
The main thing you're looking for when it comes to your dress is are you dressed in a way that is consistent
with how people expect someone in your shoes and your position, your job to be?
Or are they confused?
If you're confusing them, that's generally a bad thing.
Again, I'm not telling you to dress like me or anyone else, but I want you to have a real thought
to it.
There should be a purpose to how you're dressing so that it advances your career and advances what you're
all about.
Why am I wearing this example?
I used to wear a suit and tie in all my videos because I typically wear a suit and tie when conducting
media training workshops with executives at major corporations and major political leaders.
But what I found is this is a more intimate environment online.
People are watching from home on a bus somewhere.
They're casually dressed and there are industries like high tech, for example, where it's the kiss
of death to be seen in a suit and tie.
So that's why I have this.
This is what I call sort of my not too shirt.
It's not too formal.
Obviously, it's not too distracting.
There's no patterns jumping around.
It's not too black because there's actually a lot of white in here.
So you can see some nuance.
You can see where the arms and the torso are different.
It's not too light, obviously, and no one's bothered by it.
I have worn ties before where people right now would you wear that ugly tie for a clashes or pixilate.
So when you are thinking of how to dress, if you're doing anything on video, simpler is better.
Salads are better.
Avoiding white clothing avoid solid black.
And I realized some of you this looks solid black, but it isn't of white stripes.
They jump around.
That's if you're going to be on TV.
But if it's for the typical day in the office, you want to be dressed by the standards of your workplace
in your organization.
Now, I've been to high tech companies where people are fabulously wealthy and it's seen as really odd
to have an expensively tailored suit.
It would cut against your credibility in other places.
If you don't have an expensively tailored suit, it doesn't look good for you.
There's certain white shoe law firms here in New York City where friends of mine who are attorneys say,
I never, ever see a client in person.
I don't go to court, but I still wear the tailored suit with the French cuffs and the thousand dollar
handmade shoes because that's the expectation.
If you want to play in the game, you got it.
You got to dress.
The uniform is their expression.
So every industry is a little different.
Give some thought to it because you might not care about clothes.
A lot of people do.
You might not care about shoes.
A lot of people do not going to spend a lot of time talking about hair, but just realize every industry
has certain standards and some industries, me being clean shaven would look really weird and strange.
Other industries having a beard, even though beards are almost the default position of so many men
in the world, in the work world these days, some professions, it's still considered a little out
there.
So you've got to figure that out.
Have something that isn't distracting either accentuates what you're about or at least doesn't get in
the way.
That's why I don't have a lot up here.
I just try to keep it as short as possible.
And that way nobody thinks I'm trying to fool them with a long comb overs or all sorts of complication.
There's less not a lot there, but there's not much to distract you.
That's why I keep it short.
Am I telling you to cut your hair?
No.
You got to figure out what works for you, because all of this is sending a message to your clients,
customers, prospects of who you are and how you want to be perceived.


=== Enhancing Non-Verbal Communication ===


--- Your Body Language Partner - The Friendly Spotter ---

You need a spotter, you've seen this in the gym, someone is struggling to bench press 400 pounds,
they have someone standing over them in case it falls down on them and they're choking.
You need the same thing when it comes to your body language in your workplace.
Create a strategic alliance with someone.
Could be someone hired the same day as you or someone you just are friendly with, could be a boss or
an underling, but someone you trust to tell you like it is.
You don't want to stand up and give a presentation in front of a bunch of important new clients.
And you have spinach in your teeth.
You want someone to tell you if you're standing up to give a presentation, a speech or talk, you want
someone to tell you, hey, your shirt fell out.
It's not tucked in or part of your jacket is sticking up.
I know there have been times when I've given a keynote and I had the wireless microphone on and the
microphone was causing the flap of my jacket to stand up like I had a tail.
Thankfully, I had a colleague there who said, it looks like you have a tail, do something and.
You want someone giving you kind of a once over before you're giving any kind of important presentation,
talk speech or even just showing up an important networking event, it could be an important black tie
event in your industry at a conference.
And you don't realize, you know, one of your buttons is off missing.
You want someone to tell you that so that people are not looking at it the whole time.
So my advice, find a body if you don't have one.
Inside your place of work, make sure you have a family member who can really scrutinize you before
you leave home.


=== Managing Nerves and Staying Present ===


--- Master the Quickest, Easiest Way to Eliminate Verbal Tics ---

I want to go ahead and give you a quick win, because your time is valuable and I want to save you time
so we can solve this problem.
Here's a technique I used to get rid of us years on my clients all over the world, presidents of countries,
billionaire fund managers, even Nobel Peace Prize winners have this problem of the verbal tics.
Here's what I want you to do.
Go to your computer and type up whatever word it is you use.
Ah, ah.
You know, like you see whatever it is, that word, that sound, that phrase.
Type it up in small and medium size font and then print this out on a piece of paper.
Next, I want you to get a red magic marker.
I know this sounds silly.
You're scratching your head.
Why don't I get this is really does work.
You put a red circle around the word and a slash through it.
The international red.
No sign, just like no left hand turn, no parking.
Now it's.
No, no, no.
Ah.
So then what you do is you cut it out and then you just tape it to your cell phone, to your watch.
If you wear a watch to your computer screen, to your iPad, anything you look at daily.
Now, don't put it on your hand or your forehead.
That's not going to help something you look at.
Here's what happens after a day when you say that verbal tic that, ah, that you're still aware of
it.
But you have this sort of the Homer Simpson moment.
You're aware of it because if you're like most people, you're looking at your watch are your cell phone
dozens, if not hundreds of times a day.
So you start to get this image of the no sign around that phrase after two or three days when you start
to say the ah, the the image comes up, you almost catch it, but it still comes out of your mouth.
But here's the thing.
After about a week.
When your brain is thinking about filling that sound, that empty space with the the the ah, you know,
the image pops up and you can simply hold it in and pause this way, you'll sound more comfortable,
confident and relaxed.
Try the technique.
It really does work.


=== Technical engagement audience ===


--- Now You Know Where the Tics Come From ---

So why do people say or, you know, a lot of times in my experience, people only do it when they're
feeling uncomfortable, when they're giving a speech, a presentation, doing a media interview, leaving
a voicemail, something that takes them out of their normal conversational mode.
And what's happening is they're self-conscious and they're thinking, oh, everybody's looking at me,
how do I fill up this empty space?
I don't want it to be an awkward silence.
That's when people do it.
It's important to realize you don't have to fill up the sound.
You can simply pause.
This course is going to give you even more techniques of how it sounds easy when I say it, but I want
to give you a lot more practical tips to solve this problem.


=== Effective Use of Stories and Anecdotes ===


--- You Are Not Alone ---

The first thing to realize about occasional verbal tics is that everybody and I mean everybody occasionally
says or, you know, saying it once in a while isn't really a problem.
It's only when you say so many that it stands out.
It's kind of like if you send someone to cover letter and there's an extra comma after every word in
the first sentence, it's unnecessary and it will stand out as clutter.
But I do want you to put things in perspective quite often in my day job, which is doing public speaking
workshops and media training workshops with leaders all over the world, I'll record someone will play
it back.
Everyone in the room thinks they did a fantastic job in their presentation, but the person who was
speaking is like, Oh, gee, that's awful.
I'm so embarrassed.
It's pathetic.
I said, I'm constantly we look around.
Did anyone even notice?
No one noticed.
We played it back again.
The person said to ums in a period of 20 minutes.
So it's not really a problem.
Now, you may have a problem.
I'm not trying to minimize it, but don't be too harsh on yourself.
I know some people who never, ever say are.
The problem is they're so boring with their presentations, nobody remembers anything they said.
I also know some of the most famous media celebrities in the world.
Former broadcasters like David Letterman here in the United States.
Martha Stewart, the home goddess guru.
What are those two have in common?
They say
constantly every 20 second segment, and yet they both made tens, if not hundreds of millions of dollars
a year talking.
So let's keep this in perspective.
It's far more important, has something interesting to say than to never, ever say, let's not fetishize
it.
Yeah, I'm going to give you more tips on how to reduce your arms.
But our goal here is not perfection and never, ever saying on our goal is actually good communication
and having the people who are speaking to have good feelings about it.
By the way, speaking of someone who's very successful, speaking, saying lots of hours and hours,
I'm not going to mention any names, but there is a wildly successful public speaking coach right here
on you.
Me, he's a public speaking coach.
His courses have a lot more sales than mine and every other sentence.
Right, right, right.
Guess what?
Nobody cares.
His students love him.


=== Advanced Mental Mapping for Complex Presentations ===


--- Hit the Pin, Not the Sand Trap ---

If you really want to reduce the arms as URS and other verbal tics, you're going to have to do something
that seems contradictory.
I need you to stop focusing on not saying as at arms.
I need you to focus on actually communicating ideas of interest to the person or people you're speaking
to.
Think of it this way.
And I'm not a golfer, but my golfing friends tell me, if you go out on the golf course and you just
focus on not hitting in the sand trap, you're much more likely to hit the sand trap than if you focus
on pinch hitting the ball into the hole.
It's exactly the same way when it comes to public speaking, giving presentations, talking to people
in uncomfortable situations or even leaving voicemails.
You need to focus on helping the person you're speaking to, focus on giving them ideas that are interesting
and useful.
Don't focus on oh, hope I don't say I hope I don't say oh no.
I'll focus on the ideas for your audience.


=== Handling Q&A with Confidence ===


--- Don't Let the Ding A Ling Get You ---

The problem of people using us or other verbal tics has been around a long time and there have been
a lot of solutions and a lot of well-meaning people and organizations stop that.
Have you ever seen someone do this?
I have.
And it makes it even more nerve racking.
Someone trying to be helpful sits in the back of the room and rings a bell.
When you say, oh, this is awful.
Now, I love the folks at Toastmasters, it's a great organization, I recommend my clients go to Toastmasters.
But there's one thing I really don't like and don't think is effective with Toastmasters is that in
many chapters they either ring a bell or they'll take a knife and hit a glass and a ringing sound and
they'll count every single little.
To me, this is counterproductive.
It gets someone focusing on the arms, not delivering actual information.
When you're speaking, you want to focus on your ideas coming alive, being interesting and engaging
to the people or the person you're speaking to.
You don't want to be sitting back thinking, oh, please, please, please don't lecture.
Oh, I've done it again.
So I beg you, don't count your arms while you're speaking.
If you want to record it and do it after, that's fine.
Don't let anyone else do this.
Don't be aware of it.
As you're speaking when you're speaking, you need to speak.


=== Preparing for High-Stakes Presentations ===


--- Eliminating the Source of Your Speaking Discomfort Once and For All ---

Quite often when ums and ers are coming out of your mouth, it's a sign that there's a problem, it's
a sign that you're feeling uncomfortable.
Well, one of the biggest reasons for being uncomfortable is fear of not being interesting to your audience.
Fear of being boring.
Fear of not being understood.
Well, guess what?
That's a legitimate fear to have, because so many people, when they give speeches, briefs, talks
are in fact, boring.
So it makes complete sense that you're uncomfortable.
So I want us to go even deeper and go beyond the superficial causes and look at what's really causing
us a problem.
Sometimes the problem is we have a boring speech.
The solution is you need to practice your speech.
We'll talk about that more in just a moment.
Practice of speech that you know is interesting that, you know, is memorable.
That is a speech, a presentation, a talk, even a voice mail.
You personally would want to listen to that you would understand and that you would remember if we solve
that problem, if we get you to the point where you're confident, you've got a great message, interesting
ideas, that the person you're speaking to, that group you're speaking to will find interesting, understandable
and memorable, that's going to make you so much more relaxed and when you're relaxed.
You kind of forget to say and and ah, and you know.


=== Presentation Strategies for Technical Content ===


--- Appear More Confident By Using Smaller Words ---

When you're giving a speech, a presentation or briefing, especially if it's a so-called formal speech,
there's the tendency to want to utilize words like utilize when instead you could simply use use.
One of the big problems many people have when they're giving a presentation and they're out of their
comfort zone.
That's when the US and arms start creeping in.
The reason it happens is people are searching for bigger words than usual.
They're thinking of that word they wrote down on a script or a PowerPoint slide.
They're trying to remember the perfect word.
Let me tell you, when you're giving a speech, a presentation or a talk, very rarely does it matter
the exact words you use.
What matters is the idea you convey and that you convey it in a comfortable, conversational, interesting,
memorable way.
So the big stumbling block for a lot of people, they're trying to remember exact phrases.
They're trying to search for that perfect word that they can't find that word.
And it's almost there.
I almost see it.
And you've destroyed the whole perception of you being comfortable and confident.
So the solution is not to spend even more time rehearsing and memorizing.
The solution is don't focus on any particular word.
Instead, focus on one idea at a time.
That way you can just use the first word that comes to you.
The first word that comes to you is usually the best word, and that word is rarely ever going to be
R or.


=== Cultivating Spontaneity in Presentations ===


--- You Will Avoid the Data Dump Blues ---

A common problem for many people is that they're perfectly fine speaking friends, family, colleagues,
one on one conversations in the office or with the boss.
But when they had to stand up to give that official briefing or that formal speech, that's when all
the arms come out.
The problem is the way they've structured their presentation, they have way too much data.
They're trying to cover every single little fact in an abstract way, devoid of context.
Think of it this way.
If you bump into a colleague Monday morning and they ask, how was your weekend, you're likely to say,
oh, it was fine.
We went to.
And then you'll talk about one example of something interesting you did.
But imagine if someone said, how was your weekend?
And you had to say, well, at six one on Saturday morning, I woke up at six out to I got up and went
to the bathroom at six and three.
I went and bought coffee at six four.
I mean, that would be nerve racking.
Anyone would have the US and arms come out trying to remember sequence day, part after day, part minute
by minute.
That puts too much pressure on the brain and also, frankly, bores the audience to death.
So one of the things that will eliminate the US and arms coming out of your presentation is getting
rid of the boring data dump.
Instead, you need to narrow your messages down to the top five.
And if you're giving an hour long presentation, if you're just rattling off fact after fact, that's
in the US and homes are going to come out.
It's going to make you look uncomfortable, unprofessional, and it's frankly going to bore everyone
else to death.
So narrow your messages down.
You got a whole lot of data handed out, email it.
Don't try to remember it and say it all in front of people.


=== Virtual Presentation Mastery ===


--- Never Worry About Remembering Again ---

For most people, the US and arms really come out when they're in the act of trying to remember what's
next and what do I say next?
Where's my speech here?
What's in my outline?
I can't quite read the teleprompter or the PowerPoint slides.
Don't put so much pressure on your memory when you're giving a presentation.
It's simply human nature.
If you're feeling a little uncomfortable and most people feel uncomfortable when they're speaking,
giving presentations, talks, even leaving a voicemail.
If it's not with a close friend, the US arms come out because you're trying to remember what to say
and you're trying to talk at the same time.
I want to make life easy for you.
Reduce the stress.
Here's the tip.
I want you to don't tell anyone cheat.
I want you to actually cheat.
This is a technique I use all the time.
I have never been caught, by the way.
There's nothing unethical about it or illegal.
What I'm talking about is when you're giving an important speech, presentation, talk briefing or even
just having a meeting with someone, you just a cheat sheet.
Here's a single sheet of paper that I use and I just have two or three at most four words to remind
me of the point I use large font, typically twenty point or larger use bold lettering.
This way I don't have to pick it up.
It's on a single sheet.
So I'm not flipping pages.
It's large enough font so I don't have to bend over or stop and kind of fiddle with my glasses.
Oh hang on, let me get my glasses.
I don't have to do any of that.
It's just very large.
I can have it right in front of me.
If I'm standing up, it can be on a lectern, on a table.
If I'm sitting down, it can be right at the table.
This takes all the pressure off.
The more relaxed you are, the more you can simply talk to people and not think about what am I going
to say next.
I forgot.
I'm not going.
I don't know what I'm going to say.
If you're not thinking about remembering and forgetting and what you're going to say, you can just
be relaxed and be in the moment.
And that's when you'll see the ums and.
Melt away.


=== The Role of Emotional Intelligence in Presentations ===


--- The Number 1 Tip for Eliminating Nerves ---

Now, I'm going to give you my number one tip on how to eliminate the US arms, verbal tics in your
speeches, presentations and talks.
This is the absolute most effective technique.
It's also the least popular technique.
So you're not going to like it.
You can say, T.J., I don't want to do that.
I have to tell you what it is.
And you can be the judge of whether you use this technique.
The technique is any speech, any presentation, any talk you're about to do any important voice mail
with a client or prospect.
I want you to practice what you're saying, holding up your cell phone and recording it on video.
If you hate the idea of video, then use audio, but preferably video and then watch it and listen to
it.
First of all, I want you to focus on is this interesting?
What I want to listen to me.
Let's solve that problem first then and only then do I want you to count the arms and eyes.
Keep doing it until you're comfortable with how you come across and your number of hours in arms.
Remember, no one's going to remember one or two arms throughout a presentation or a talk or a conversation.
They will remember if you have 20 in the first 30 seconds.
So don't strive for perfection.
I do want you to focus on a number that you're comfortable with.
So please do that.
Now, think of any topic you want, anything you ever discuss in briefings, meetings, talks or conversations.
Record yourself.
You can use a cell phone, an iPad, a webcam and keep doing it.
That's the key.
It's not about doing it once and ripping yourself apart for ten hours.
Do it once and then quickly do another.
But keep doing it until you're comfortable with how you come across, how fluid you are, how interesting
you are and how few verbal tics you have.


=== Effective Rehearsal Strategies for Memory Retention ===


--- A Focus Group To Make You Better ---

Am I crazy?
Are people staring at my beady eyes and making fun of me?
We all are sometimes too close to ourselves to really have an accurate, dispassionate perspective on
how we're coming across.
It may be that you do have a huge, huge problem with us and hers and verbal tics, but maybe not.
I'm not saying it's all in your head.
You're in this course.
So there's some issue there.
But what I want you to do is test now.
What you don't want to do is speak and then go up to someone and say, tell me how bad I am, how many
hours.
And it was really awful, right?
You don't want to coach someone.
What you want to do is give a presentation, give a talk and then ask someone, what do they remember
that's most important next.
What did you like?
That's also very important.
Then ask them anything.
Stand out that you think could be improved.
If they say something like, well, you didn't seem quite comfortable, then you want to dig and probe.
See if they'll actually tell you that they're hearing too many as ERs you knows and likes.
Finally, if they don't mention it, ask them if they say I didn't even notice you saying are.
Look, I trust you, but I trust your audience more.
They're a lot more credible than you are when it comes to how you come across.
So everybody needs outside independent feedback.
In fact, I need feedback.
I'm going to ask that from you right now.
And Udemy, if they haven't done so already, we'll ask you for feedback on this course.
I want to know what you think.
So far.
Udemy is going to ask you to rate on stars and certainly if you think it's a five star course, go ahead
and put five stars if you think it's lacking in any way rather than leave a rating.
Right now, I want you to send me a message right here in the Grammy system, and I'll try to make the
changes right away because I want to be responsive to you.
Nobody's perfect.
I'm not perfect.
I want to make this course even better.
The other thing I'm interested in and isn't going to ask you this, but I will.
What do you remember so far?
What's been most useful about this course so far?
Please post it in the discussion section.
Thanks.


=== Understanding the Root Causes of Public Speaking Anxiety ===


--- The Video Advantage In All Your Proposals - Quick Win! ---

Let me give you a really quick win, something that I think will help you in your business right out
of the gate here, every single prospect who calls me or emails me for my core business, which is conducting
media training workshops, public speaking workshops, presentation, trainings, every single person
who contacts me gets a personalized video just like this where I mention them by name and I send it
right back to them and they love it.
They always tell me, T.J., you're the only vendor we reached out to.
You're the only media training firm that did that.
The reality is I'm saving myself time because I'm not having to type in retype and edit to look for
typos in a text document.
My client prospects get to see me.
And here's the thing.
Yeah, there are a gazillion other courses on YouTube about how to edit, make it look slick.
I don't do any editing.
I have the remote control here.
When I'm done talking, I hit stop.
Not to complicate, I hit start and I talk, I hit stop and I stop talking and I'm done and then I just
email that proposal right to the client prospect and they're impressed.
They can hear me, see me get a sense of what I'm all about.
These are the sorts of tips I want to give you in this cause so that you're not just talking about video
and you're not just doing the slick corporate video with music and special effects and design and graphics.
There's a place for that.
But that's not what this course is about.
I want you to get comfortable using video for all of your communication, and that's what we're going
to learn right here.
Stay tuned to the next lesson.


=== Setting Personal Goals for Each Presentation ===


--- Hype Versus Reality - Why Most People Never Create Simple Video ---

So we've got to talk about hype versus reality, if you look at the news media, if you look at your
news feed, you look at the people talking about Facebook, everything is about video, video, video.
You see all these studies coming out in marketing books and magazines about how anyone under 35 will
only watch video and you hear Facebook saying we're more video focused.
Yeah, a lot of people are focused on video.
There's only one problem.
Most people in the world are not comfortable speaking in front of a video camera, just doing what I'm
doing right here.
So what does that mean?
What it means is that in most organizations, when you say video, they think of the video production
house, the official communications department, you hire a director for the day, an outside video
production company, and six months later, you have some big product marketing video.
Meanwhile, about 10 billion emails, press releases, web pages and other forms of communication have
taken place over the last six months, none of it on video.
Here's the thing.
Video is very powerful and it doesn't have to be the nineteen eighty four Apple commercial that got
so many awards and so much attention.
Doesn't have to be a Super Bowl commercial.
Just you talking about something you do that's important, interesting, relevant to customers, clients
and prospects can be so much more powerful than just cold text in an email or on a web page or even
an old fashioned letter if someone sends that.
So that's what I want to work with you on in this course, is how to communicate, making simple video.
Here's the big problem.
You can build a big studio as many companies and organizations do.
You can hire videographers.
You can hire and buy a lot of editing software.
Most people and most companies, whether it's a one person company or a huge, huge billion dollar corporation,
most people are still too uncomfortable speaking on a camera either.
Not me.
You know, I'm not an on camera person.
I'm not a TV star.
You know, I go away for my hair to grow back or lose 10 pounds.
Everyone has all of these excuses.
That's what's holding people back in your own organization.
It may be what's holding you back.
Fortunately for you, that's what's holding people back in every other organization to see.
What that means is if you do get used to communicating with simple talking heads video, you're going
to really stand out.
You will be a cut above.
So that's what we're going to focus on.
And then the next lesson is how do you actually get comfortable on video?
Because until you're comfortable with it, until you're convinced you know how to look your best and
sound your best, you will do everything possible to procrastinate.
Making a video.
Believe me, I sound like, you know, believe me, I know corporations where they've spent two hundred
thousand dollars on studios, software, cameras.
Nobody's ever made the first video because everyone is afraid of looking stupid or uncomfortable.
So that's what we're going to cover next.
How to really look your best on camera.


=== Effective Ways to Receive and Utilize Critiques ===


--- Mastering the Human Side Of Looking and Sounding Your Best on Video ---

Most courses on video production start off with buy this camera, have the lighting like this, and
as I mentioned to you, there are tons of other great courses on Udemy on all the technical aspects.
This is, of course, on video production.
But my focus is to help you with the human side of the video production, because on the one side,
you got a camera, lights, microphone.
On the other side you have an actual human being.
And in my experience, that's the weakness in this whole puzzle.
That's the weakness when it comes to knowledge and resources and investment.
Now, I've got entire courses on YouTube teaching people how to look comfortable on camera.
This is going to be a brief overview.
And that's what I actually spent all day long doing in my in-person media training workshops and public
speaking workshops.
But I want to give you a brief overview on how to look your best on camera.
And then I am going to ask you to do an assignment the up to you whether you want to do it.
Here's the big problem for most people.
When they speak on camera for the first time, they act natural.
You could say, oh, what's wrong with that?
Aren't you supposed to be natural?
Here's the thing.
If you're nervous and everyone's nervous, if they haven't spoken on camera a lot, they do this.
What happens is their body freezes, their face freezes, their hands stop moving.
Their voice starts speaking at a consistent tone, a consistent volume.
And they look scared and nervous and uncomfortable and oh, my God, do we have to listen to this guy
any longer?
That's the big problem.
So here's what you have to do in order to become comfortable, looking confident, looking for starters,
you have to move your head.
Look at how my head is moving.
You can even hit the mute button on your computer or your cell phone and rewind this and you'll see
my head is moving a great deal.
All great communicators, when they speak, their head moves, their face moves, the eyebrows move.
So you want to make sure you have constant movement.
The next thing you want to do in order to seem lifelike, to seem natural, relaxed is yet to move your
body.
I'm not just standing straight up like this.
My body's actually moving the whole time.
And then the final thing you want to do is, yeah, these things are moving now.
You don't necessarily see them all the time because of how this is framed for the video that you're
going to watch on your cell phone iPad.
But my hands are moving the whole time.
You may have heard.
Oh, don't move your hands.
That's unprofessional.
Wrong.
The second you freeze your hands, you typically freeze your arms, shoulders the muscles, get into
your neck.
And next thing you know, you have that kind of blah, blah, blah, blah.
Charlie Brown's teacher voice, it's tensing up your vocal cords.
So when you move your hands, your body moves more, your vocal cords move more.
The thing you want to do in order to come across as natural and believable on camera is you need variety,
you need variety and movement in your face, your body and your hands.
And most important, you need variety in your voice.
That means sometimes you speak a little softer, sometimes a little louder, sometimes faster, sometimes
slower and occasionally.
You need to pause, by the way, all of those things never happen if you're trying to read a script,
you have a script in front of you or a teleprompter, and all of a sudden everything is leveled out
and flattened out and you become robots.
Awful.
That's why I don't recommend you try to read a script.
I don't recommend you use a teleprompter.
Think of it this way.
If you're sending a video proposal to a client or answering a frequently asked question, you don't
need a teleprompter to do that in real life.
If you were talking to the client prospect sitting in front of you.
So why should you need it?
If you're talking to a camera, just treat it like it's a human being.
And the beauty of video, other than when it's live, if you don't like it, you hit delete and you
just do it again.
Now, a lot of people will look at a video and they're hyper critical.
I understand that we're all human beings.
Oh, I don't want to see my face.
I don't want to.
Oil clients have to see you in real life.
Customers have to see you in real life.
You can't walk around the office or go into meetings with a bag over your head.
At least I hope not.
I assume not.
So you kind of get over that.
It's not about being gorgeous and perfect.
I can look at a video of this now.
On the one hand, I feel confident.
I look my best and sound my best.
This is exactly how I want to come across.
But sure, I could point to the video and say, oh my God, my hair's falling out.
I'm getting bags under my eyes, I'm getting wrinkles, I'm getting jowls.
I could pick apart all sorts of things.
And I'm not any smarter than you.
But one thing I am pretty smart about is this.
I know it doesn't really matter to you what I look like.
You didn't come to this udemy cause to find some perfect specimen of beauty here, not here to find
a date or a spouse.
You're here to get information for you to help you in your business and your organization, in your
career.
And as long as I can deliver that at some level, you don't really care what I look like.
You've got to come to that same realization.
It's one thing if you're a supermodel, I'm assuming right now you're not you are a business person.
You're trying to communicate.
Then the focus has got to be on how can you simply come across comfortable, confident, relaxed and
talk about the things you do to help other people and organizations.
If you do that, no one's going to care what you look like.
Now, of course, there are some things that could distract.
So if you have really loud, colorful clothing and you're in a conservative industry that can be distracting,
you may notice I have a simple dark shirt on.
It's not pure black.
It has a lot of white in it.
So there's a little more contrast.
And I don't have anything else that's going to jump around.
No stripes, no paisleys, nothing that's going to jump around.
Other than that, I'm trying to keep it simple so that you can focus on the message for you, not what
I'm wearing or what's behind me.
So here's the homework assignment and I'm not going to ask you to do a lot in this course.
This is really the biggest determinant, whether you're going to get a lot out of it, though, because
if you don't get comfortable with how you come across on video, you'll never make an expensive talking
head videos for all the other things and talk about in this course.
So here's the homework assignment.
I need you to pull out your cell phone or an iPad or a webcam and record yourself talking just for one
minute about your business.
And look at it, figure out what you like, what you don't like, you see anything you don't like,
keep redoing it until you like what you see again.
Don't wait for perfection.
Don't say, oh, gosh, my hair doesn't look as good as it did 30 years ago.
Well, mine doesn't either.
And you know what?
People pay me a lot more money than they did 30 years ago when I had more hair because I give them valuable
information and insights to help their business.
So don't try to make it perfect.
Just try to keep doing it until you're comfortable.
You're coming across your very best.
Now, here's what I'll recommend.
It's up to you.
Most people aren't willing to do this, but if you're serious about this, I think you should post the
video on YouTube.
You can make it a private link or an unlisted link and then put that link in the discussion section
right here.
I will watch your video.
I will give you personalized feedback.
Now, I do this in a lot of my other courses on Udemy.
Very few people do it.
Oh, well, T.J., what if somebody makes fun of me?
What if somebody sees it.
Well, somebody could make fun of the text on your website to you could be in a meeting and someone
could make fun of you if you never show up.
Yeah.
Maybe no one will make fun of you, but then you remain anonymous.
And that's the bigger problem for most people in most industries, is simply not getting your message
across.
So I would urge you get over it.
Everybody's worried about their own video.
No one really has the time to come to you, to me, fish around and all the discussion groups, find
your video and then cut and paste it to make it turn into some joke on YouTube.
So that's what I'd ask you to do, post a video of yourself speaking, get to the point where you're
comfortable with how you come across, because once you get there, then we can do all the other things
we're going to talk about in this course.


=== The Role of Public Speaking in Thought Leadership ===


--- How This course Will Improve Your Business ---

So now we're ready to get going, and I'm really hoping you don't just sit back and watch this cause
and find it interesting and leave a bunch of stars, I'm really hoping you put this to work in your
own business, your own organization, your own website site and all the other social media tools where
you can use video these days.
So here's the structure of the course.
I'm going to outline for you a specific way.
I use video in my own business and then I will give you an example of that video.
I don't expect you to watch the whole example.
You can get it probably in about 10 seconds.
But I put it there just so you can visualize it, where I apologize in advance if it seems overly self
promotional.
This is a course on how to use video to promote yourself and to promote your business.
So if I'm going to give you examples, I really have no choice other than to give you the self promotional
examples.
In some cases, I will put them right into the course here.
So the auto play and Euterpe, other cases, the quality might not be good enough to pass you to meet
high standards.
And it's nice they have high standards.
So I'll put the other out, typically a YouTube link or video or something like that.
Again, my recommendation, you don't have to watch the whole thing.
Just watch a snippet when I'm trying to do is plant seeds in your own brain.
So you're thinking, oh yeah, I should do a video on that for my organization.
Yeah, I should do a video on that, summarizing the contents of my new book or whatever it is you're
producing and putting out to the world.
So with that noted, let's hop right in.


=== Your Assignment: Write down goals to improve your life and achieve your goals!! ===


--- Your Proposals will Stand Head and Shoulders Above Your Competitors ---

As I mentioned at the beginning, one huge, huge benefit of getting comfortable doing simple talking
head video is you can give your proposals in that format.
Now, I'm not saying you can't also have a text version or a PDF to accompany it, but when someone
sees you mentioning them by name and they live in another city or another country, it just makes them
feel a lot more confidence in you when they can see you talking to them.
I'll tell you how I do that in just a moment, but time out before we even get there.
None of this would be possible if it weren't for one personality trait that I have that makes me special.
That makes me good at this.
Are you ready for that?
The trait is.
I'm lazy, I'm probably a little easier than you are.
Why is that an advantage?
It's because I've never learned how to edit video.
Oh, that's impossible, A.J. You can't possibly do a video these days without doing 10 cuts every two
seconds.
Well, no, you don't.
Some people do and they can be successful.
And if you're 17 years old and you have a lot of time on your hands or if you're Apple and you've got
billions of dollars for production, go ahead, be my guest.
But for most people in most organizations, even large organizations, if you're not in the communications
media arm, there simply isn't that much time, energy, effort and money.
If you shoot a whole bunch of raw footage and then you start trying to code everything you've shot and
labeling it and turning it into a TV commercial, I've seen it where six months a year will go by and
the project becomes overwhelming.
And it never happened, so again, my great strength is I'm too lazy to learn how to edit because of
that, I do everything really, really quickly, easily, cheaply.
So here's the value of the video proposal.
A prospect calls me up.
Let's say a major corporation could be based in the US, could be based in Malaysia.
They call up, say, T.J., we're just looking for a proposal for media training.
Can you send us a standard proposal?
And I'll say, sure, I'm happy to, but I need to know a little more about you.
So I'll ask them questions about how many executives they have.
Are they giving speeches or are they speaking to television interviews?
How many days are they looking for?
What do they really want to accomplish?
And then as soon as the call and I walk into my little studio here, which is really just a closet,
I turn on a button, the lights pop on, and I just talk as if I were talking to that one prospect.
And I'll say, OK, Sanjay, thanks so much for calling me.
I understand you and your colleagues at X, Y, Z, Corp are interested in getting media training because
you really want to come across.
So I'll leave their name throughout.
I'll personalize it.
A lot of what I say is somewhat boilerplate, but I make everything sound completely fresh, original
to that, and I am making it fresh and new for them.
It's not some button where an old video of me shows up.
It's actually me talking to the prospect by name, their company where they are referencing it and I'm
doing this so and that person has to get buy in from other decision makers.
The CEO, the CEO can say, well, send me.
That's top three proposals you got.
And the other two proposals are text, and my liaison can now say, oh, well, there's this one guy,
T.J. Walker, who really seems a cut above.
He went to the trouble of creating a video for us.
You should watch that first.
I know that's how I often get hired.
That's how I distinguish myself.
And again, this isn't time consuming.
I want to stress I'm actually saving time.
I'm not writing up a big, long proposal.
I'm simply talking sometimes for three minutes.
It could be for ten minutes.
But when I'm done, I simply hit stop, stop recording.
I label the video and I email it to the prospect and they love it.
They don't hire me one hundred percent of the time.
But it's a huge leg up, and I've had many, many clients tell me that's why they hired me, how this
works especially.
Well, if it is a prospect from another city, another country, another continent, and they can't
meet with you in person.
And there's no personal connection, especially if you're not a part of some wildly famous, big, well-known
brand where all the credibility is already there.
So I'm urging you we're going to go through a lot of different ways of using video production and simple
talking head video for marketing purposes and business purposes.
But in my mind, this is the absolute best example of how to do it, in part because it's so simple.
It saves time and nobody else is doing it yet.
You might as well be first in your industry.

--- Your Clients Will Find You Their Most Responsive Partner Ever ---

Never have a client email you a question or text you a question or call or leave a voicemail.
What do you do?
Well, most people type back and do it quickly, efficiently.
And that's good enough most of the time.
But why limit ourselves to the keyboard?
Why limit ourselves to text?
So when a client asked me any question about speaking to the media, giving speeches, giving presentations
and delivering PowerPoint, those are my areas of specialty.
I typically don't email them back with text.
I do a simple video where I answer their question.
I mention it by name and I send it to them now.
Often mentioned just their first name.
I don't mention their company.
So now I have content to put on YouTube and other places too.
So there's multiple uses for it, but clients really appreciate it.
Now, quite often a client will send me a video of his or her speech or media interview.
I'll take, you know, 30, 60 seconds watching it and then I'll respond.
But again, I do it in a video format because if someone's asking me how they look on TV and they had
a great message answered really well, but their head was stiff or their eyes darted, I want to show
them what they did wrong as well as focus on what they did.
Right now, some of those things are specific to my industry because I teach people how to look good
on camera.
That might not be relevant to you.
But when it comes to just answering an everyday question from a client, video can be very powerful.
Clients tend to appreciate it.
Again, it stands out.
It shows effort, it shows you didn't just have a twenty two year old intern answering your mail and
just doing the bare minimum to get the client out of your way, it's simple.
It's easy.
It can be done.
I'll provide some examples for you next.

--- Your Website Can Be Video-Centric ---

Anything and everything on your website could be delivered in a video format, now link below to my
website just so you can see what I'm talking about.
When someone comes to media training worldwide dotcom, they're going to see videos of me talking about
media training, videos of me talking about presentation, training, videos about all of our online
courses.
So it's a video first Web site.
Maybe you don't want to make video the primary thing, but why not make it a secondary part of every
single part of your Web site?
I do believe some of the research and surveys that show many people under thirty five simply prefer
video.
If you have clients under thirty five, why force them to use the format you want?
Why not give it to them in the format they want.
So anything and I mean anything on your Web site where you're doing this typing, you can put in a video
format.
I'll give you even more specific examples covering basic elements of your Web site and other aspects
of your online presence.
But I want you to start thinking in terms of anything on not just your website, but anything on the
Web you could be communicating in a video format.
You can check below and you may hate my website for other reasons.
All I can tell you is it works for my business and it gets people seeing me and getting a sense of who
I am much faster than if they just had to read text.

--- Now You Can Answer Frequently Asked Questions Just Once! ---

Let me ask you to all of your clients and prospects, ask you completely different questions every day,
every week, every month, I'm guessing.
No, I'm guessing maybe a few of the questions are different.
But if you're like most businesses again and again and again, you hear the same questions and you have
to give the same answers and you have to explain this over the phone, talking to people, meeting with
him in person, sending follow up emails.
Why not make your frequently asked questions in a video format?
That way you can send it right to someone.
You can make it available on your website.
You can make it available on your YouTube channel.
So it probably wouldn't take you more than a half an hour to really sit down and brainstorm of what
are the most often asked questions that you receive and your business.
You may come up with five, you may come up with 50, but write them down and then just record them.
I guess we don't have to win Oscars.
We're not trying to win video production awards if we're giving our customers, our clients and prospects
interesting, valuable information.
It is a win for everyone.
Once I had a slow afternoon in the summer a couple of years ago, I just recorded one hundred frequently
asked questions all in one afternoon and now I've got it.
I'll link to some of those next.
And you can say you don't have to watch all of them, but I want you to see how simple and easy it is
and it just gives clients and prospects a greater sense that you've thought about this, that you really
are an expert, that you have competence, that your organization is the one they should be dealing
with.

--- Talk Your Customers Through Your Whole Business Process ---

There's another whole category of communication that I just call procedures for clients and customers.
Every business is different, but most businesses have something where once somebody becomes a client
or a valued customer, they have to communicate stuff on a regular basis or at least a concentrated
form before a specific activity or service takes place.
So in my own business, I conduct media training workshops, public speaking workshops, full day.
Typically people hire me three to six weeks, sometimes eight weeks in advance.
So a couple of weeks in advance, I email them a pre training homework.
And on this there is text on the page, but there is a video of me explaining it.
Now, here's the thing.
So you'll find I also have a pre training conference call with the clients where I can talk to them
and answer their questions, go over the instructions.
I cover everything in the video as well because there's some concepts people have a very hard time grasping.
So, for example, I tell them in the phone call and in the video and in text that they need to send
me a video of themselves giving a sample speech or giving a sample media interview, a new one they've
practiced and refined.
And still a lot of them don't do it like, oh, I didn't know I was supposed to do that.
And I know they heard me on a conference call and I know they got the link.
My point is not to criticize clients.
My clients are wonderful, but that every additional form of communication you have can increase the
odds of your clients, your customers getting it.
And sometimes whether you're delivering a high level service or you have a complicated product, give
people a video explaining it.
It drives me utterly insane every time I buy either piece of equipment for my gym or any other form
of equipment, exercise equipment, sporting equipment.
And the manufacturer has no video on how to put it together.
Drives me insane.
I've got to call waste their time on that eight hundred number.
Now, I'm not selling a lot of hard physical products that have to be assembled.
You might.
That's yet another example of how it would be great to have a video really explaining things.
Your clients, your customers, your prospects will really appreciate it and it will save you time again.
It doesn't have to be pretty.
You want a phone call?
I got to tell you, it wasn't that pretty, but you can convey the information you need.
Same with video only for some people it's more powerful and it shows that you've given it real thought.

--- Have an Even Greater Presence on YouTube ---

You don't need me to tell you about YouTube unless you just crawled out from under a rock, you've heard
of YouTube, you've been there a thousand times, you've watched videos.
But here's my question.
How much is on your YouTube channel right now?
I'm constantly shocked about businesses, major businesses.
You go to the YouTube channel and it's three videos from five years ago now.
They might be slick, nice looking videos.
It might be their commercials and nothing, maybe not a five year gap, but certainly a six month gap.
I'll go to major communications first, public relations firms, investor relations firms, and they
got nothing or they got five videos up.
Even people in my own field of media training, public speaking, training, so few videos.
Not much there.
Yes.
If you can do a video and it goes viral and 10 million people watch it and you become the next Justin
Bieber.
Great.
That's not what I'm talking about here.
What I'm talking about is using this channel is a constant form of communication.
So you can be talking to clients, prospects, customers, people who just find you interesting about
what it is you do and do it regularly.
It can be any length of time.
People ask me all the time, T.J., what's the perfect length of time for a YouTube video?
And my answer is as long as it takes to give somebody something of value.
In general, the shorter, the better, OK, the average watch time for my videos is three minutes and
15 seconds on YouTube.
Now on Facebook, it's more like ten seconds.
So there's a huge difference, depending on what platform you're on.
And I have some very successful videos where I was able to get across one point in 20 seconds.
But my most successful video ever on YouTube has an hour's worth of content an hour and people watch
on average 15 minutes of it.
So my recommendation, don't focus on having a little stopwatch out there and getting it exactly 60
seconds or two minute answer.
It's got to be less than three minutes.
Focus on delivering good content, interesting, useful information and do it regularly.
Now I post one video seven days a week.
I used to do more.
Believe it or not, you might do once a month.
You might do once a week.
It's up to you.
But what I have found and what I think you'll find is it's actually easier to do it once a week than
it is once a month.
You'll spend more time thinking about it and wondering and agonizing and getting yourself going.
And it's actually easier to do once a day than once a week.
Now, I typically batch them, as I mentioned, I'll do a hundred at a time and then not do any more
YouTube videos for a couple of months sometimes.
But for many, many years I would just do them every day.
Got me used to it, got me in the habit, got me a really comfortable talking to a video camera.
To me it's really no different than talking to one customer or client.
But that takes doesn't make any unique talent, doesn't take a skill, it's just something that you
develop if you do it a bunch.
So my recommendation to you is create content on your YouTube channel and you may be a part of a big
company that has really slick, expensive videos.
Fine.
But there's nothing wrong with having simple talking head videos as well.
Even big companies have tweets and blog posts that are just a couple sentences of text.
They might also have a really slick books and fancy pdf and images.
Just because you have one form that's fancy and produced doesn't mean you can't have a simplified version.
That's really my thesis when it comes to simple talking head video.
Yeah, you can have the fancy expensive video, which, as I remind you, is not what this course is
about, but you can also have simple talking head video without any edits to remind you again, you
can hit on.
And when you're done, you're ready to go after doing this.

--- Speak Your Thought Leadership ---

When you mention thought leadership to most people in the business world, they think of an extensive
white paper, a book, perhaps a documentary.
Well, I want to put out another idea for you.
Why not a lengthy video where you go in depth on a subject?
Now, I'm not opposed to thought leadership and other formats.
I've written half a dozen books, and that's not what I'm here to sell you on today.
What I'm here to sell you on is the idea of you speaking in a video format to further establish your
thought leadership.
If you go to YouTube and you type in media training for the last four years, the first video that comes
up is mine.
And it's number one in part because it's simply more comprehensive than any other video on media training.
It's an hour long.
There's nothing fancy about it.
There are no edits.
There's nothing slick.
It's just me standing right here talking.
I have a backdrop where it looks like I'm in a TV studio, but it's just me.
And because of that, I've had other organizations call me, hire me to do on camera work for them to
make training videos for them and to do media training for them all because of that one thought leadership
video.
And to be honest, I made a mistake on the audio that day and the audio really wasn't that good, but
it is still helped me immensely.
I'll put a link to it following this video.
You can see for yourself now.
You might want to not want to talk for one hour.
Might be ten minutes.
But don't force yourself into thinking, oh, video's got to be quick, quick, get your 30 second.
Now you can go really deep into a subject.
Not everyone in the world want to see it, but those you care about the most.
Perhaps your best client prospects will want to watch it before calling you.
And that's the magic of video thought leadership.

--- Your Exciting Video Newsletters Will Outshine Text Newsletters ---

Whether you're a one person company or multibillion dollar corporation, you probably have one or more
newsletters coming out of your organization, news letters, actual letters.
Most newsletters are filled with letters, actual text.
Well, why is that?
It's because traditionally there was a lot cheaper to write than it was to make video or make quality
audio.
I understand traditionally why that was the case.
But again, today, we're all surrounded by video cameras, every cell phone, laptop computer.
So it's not necessarily easier or cheaper to send out newsletters in a text format than it is video.
Now, I've talked about a lot of different styles of video ways you can use video at this point.
We're going to morph some of them together because they'll be multiple purposes for them.
And you can cross pollinate.
You can you can use any one video for multiple purposes.
So your YouTube videos, your frequently asked questions, videos, you can put those in your newsletter.
I've had a newsletter for more than 17 years as of production day today and for many years it was just
text.
And then it was a combination of video and text.
Now it's all video.
Now I do that because my business is about how to speak, how to speak to the media, how to give speeches.
Your business probably isn't that niche.
But still, what would be wrong with, say, one item from your newsletter each week or each month being
in video?
It could be a personal message from you to clients or customers.
It breaks things up and gets people away from just thinking, Oh, here's another ho hum newsletter
with a bunch of text or a pretty graphic that somebody bought off of a website somewhere.
When it's you speaking, they know you put thought into it.
So I would suggest that you think about how to create a newsletter.
I'll put a few samples of mine in the next lesson as well so you can look at it.

--- Facebook Live Will Never Scare You Again ---

Facebook Live is another great option for communicating with customers, clients, prospects, your
community, your tribe in a video format.
Now, the thing I really love two things about Facebook live.
Number one, once it's done, it's done.
You're not even tempted to do numerous takes because it's live.
Number two, most people are scared and nervous about doing anything live.
So even fewer of your competitors are doing this.
It's an ability, an option of really cutting through the clutter.
Once again, extra bonuses of doing Facebook like Facebook loves it.
They reward you.
They put you in front of so many more of your followers, people who liked your page or friends.
If it's a personal page, any time I do a Facebook live, I get a much larger audience again.
All it is is talking the beauty of Facebook live.
An additional beauteous people can type in questions.
They can interact, they can put little heart things on.
And it's like they can really communicate directly with you.
And you can make it more like a town hall meeting sometimes.
So that this also applies to to YouTube hangouts.
There are other formats where you can do this as well.
The beauty of Facebook is so many people are already there, so it's a great way of having an audience
built in.
Now, you could get really fancy and have big cameras and have all the fancy way of doing it like a
broadcast production.
But you can also just hold your own cell phone and do it.
Don't even worry about a microphone.
Now, you could.
But some of the most successful Facebook lives I've ever done, it's been me in a training or somewhere,
and I'm just holding my cell phone out at arm's length.
Now, a couple of tips if you're going to do that.
Have the cell phone a couple of inches above your eyes.
What most people do that's wrong is they have it down.
It's shooting up their nose.
And the only thing you see is the light above your head, the lights on the ceiling so it darkens your
face.
Try to keep it a couple of inches above your eyes, or at least no lower than your eye level.
It will look much, much better.
Now, if you want to take it up a notch, have another person hold.
Your cell phone or if you're using an iPad, and that way you can frame it a little better, it can
look a little nicer.
Be careful, though, because sometimes there's a time lag between when you think you've started and
you started more important when you think you've ended.
Sometimes it goes on another couple of seconds.
So don't make the mistake of finishing and then say, oh, gosh, I'm glad that's over.
That was a bunch of I've seen that happen to people and it was quite embarrassing.
So stay in the moment when you're done.
Just stop talking.
Wait a couple of seconds.
Make sure it's completely off and then go on.
The other beauty of Facebook live is it get you even more used to speaking on camera if you can do it
live.
There's a certain adrenaline rush going through your body.
Do that.
It doesn't have to be every day.
Could be once a month, could be twice a year.
But when you do things live and you get used to it, then when you're doing your own recordings and
it's not like it's even less stressful and it's easier than ever.
So please, I beg you, don't overlook this opportunity because it is huge.

--- Project Your Best Face on Skype and Zoom ---

Skype has been around a long time.
A lot of people like to assume these days WebEx is still around.
I'm not here to proselytize for any one format of online video communication, but I do want you to
think about how you can choose one of those or whatever is flexible and convenient for your client or
prospect.
And to make that a default form of communication to many people in too many organizations have a hierarchy
where print or texting or email is the first format, telephone or texting is the second format.
And only if it's like a really special occasion do we somehow do things on video.
Why?
Again, there used to be a time when you had to have a whole special room for this and extra costs and
satellite.
We don't have any of that anymore.
You can do a Skype video meeting, conference, whatever you want to call it.
A call also on FaceTime.
With the push of a button, what holds back so many people is what we talked about in those initial
lessons in this course, they're not comfortable with how they look and how they sound.
That's why the more you get people starting in this used to this, it creates a cycle of virtue.
The more you do it, the more comfortable you get.
The more you want to do it, the better you get, more comfortable you get, the more you want to do
it.
It it just goes on and on in a positive way.
So that's why in my own business, any time someone calls me, I very quickly say, could we take this
to Skype?
And it just makes them more comfortable.
It's easier for people to understand.
You can see the body language, you can see the lips moving.
If someone's e-mailing me questions, I'll ask, can we call back on Skype video?
Could you zoom anything else as well?
So these are all tools they've been around for a while.
The change I'm trying to have you really think about is how to make it more of a default, a primary
mode of communication, not just an extra thing for something special.

--- Deliver Keynote Speeches Without Ever Leaving Home ---

This next way of using video sort of piggybacks on the last lesson regarding Skype, it's not something
most people typically think of.
But here it is, give a keynote speech at a convention entirely through online video, regardless of
what field you're in, if you've been doing it for a while and you have any sort of reputation, you're
likely to be invited to speak.
Now, you might not get invited to speak and have a big twenty or thirty thousand dollar keynote speaking
fee.
As a professional speaker, chances are a lot more likely you're asked to speak for free to give back
to a community or profession or as an opportunity to promote your business.
Well, here's what I now do with speaking opportunities around the world.
If someone says, T.J., can you speak in New Zealand and we can't afford your normal fee, I say,
sure, let's do the whole thing through Skype video.
And it works extremely well.
All you have to do is let people on the other end know that it's even possible, because if you can
speak on Skype, video or any other platform, all they need is to connect the computer or laptop that
you're speaking into on their end to a projector.
They can project it up on a wall, a screen that's 50 feet.
They can plug the audio out of that computer into speakers you could be seen by.
Fifty people, five hundred five thousand people, when you think about it, many conventions you go
to, there's more than a couple hundred people in the room quite often.
You're not watching the speaker speak.
You're watching the big Jumbotron.
You're you're watching the big imag, the image magnification, the screen.
So it's not that much different from the standpoint of the audience.
It saves you a ton of time this way.
Let's say I'm not going as far away as New Zealand, but if I'm just going to the next state over to
give a speech that's a whole day out of my life.
By the time I've traveled there, got in there shaking hands, other things, talk to people afterwards,
traffic.
That's a day out of my life.
That's eight hours out of my life.
But now I can give a keynote speech to any organization of the world or any business in the world.
And I can do it.
In my case.
I have a home studio, so I don't even have to put on shoes.
I can wear slippers and it only takes me the time when I'm speaking so it doesn't take a lot of extra
effort.
This is a simple white backdrop.
We're not going to spend a lot of time on backdrops and productions, as I warn you in the beginning.
But this is a white PowerPoint slide.
I'm just in front of a TV and yet it can be a great experience for the audience.
I've done this now with speeches all over the world.
I've got my speaker here.
I can hear them just as you would any Skype video or Zoome conference.
They just have to plug a microphone in on there.
And so this is another great tool.
Most people, even if they like speaking and are ambitious and energetic, we'll try to say yes to speaking
engagements.
But if they can't fly to the place, they'll just say, sorry, it doesn't work.
I'm recommending you don't turn anyone down.
You just say, yes, I'll do it.
But it's going to have to be a keynote speech via Skype video or some other platform.
You'll reach a lot more of an audience.
No travel time.
It's a huge, huge win and it's underused.

--- Supercharge Your Public Relations Efforts With Video ---

Simple talking head video is one of the greatest tools ever for your public relations if your goal is
to get media attention, whether it's local media attention, the local NBC affiliate National Attention
on Al Jazeera, CNN, BBC having video where you're already talking about the issue.
The reporter wants to talk about it.
The host wants to talk about is a huge step up.
Producers want to see can you talk about this issue?
One technique I've used with tremendous success over the years is whether there's a breaking news story
that relates to my area of expertise.
Let's say it happens at 10:00 in the morning.
Well, by 10, 10, I've done a video analyzing it, whether it's a politician saying something stupid
or going down in flames at a at a press conference, I will analyze it in a video format short typically
90 seconds or so, and then put it on my website, put it on you to tweet it, but also send the video
to producers.
I know we'll be covering that story.
And quite often that gets the call.
They don't have to wonder what my opinions are.
They've already seen it.
They don't have to wonder if I can speak on camera.
They've already seen it.
So it can really catapult your whole PR strategy and a more powerful way and get you a lot more coverage
because you're making it easy for reporters, bookers, producers to use you.
This is much easier than writing the eight hundred word op ed piece and thinking about it for two days
and then trying to push it to the media after they've long forgotten the issue.
It's the immediacy of it and the fact that you're showing media outlets, even print outlets, that
you're articulate and you have a strong, interesting view on a subject.
So if you're not doing this and you're spending money putting out press releases or dealing with a PR
firm, you're really missing out on a lot.

--- The Crisis Communications Secret Weapon ---

Related to the last issue of using video for public relations, there's a sub niche of that where I
think your own simple talking head video can be incredibly helpful, and that is during crisis times
for crisis communications.
If you're a manager and there's some kind of an explosion or a fire at your power plant.
And all of a sudden, everyone wants to know, are we safe, should we evacuate?
And you're getting all kinds of media calls everywhere, it's quite often much smarter to just do a
simple two, three, maybe even five minute video.
You can put it out to the whole world.
Now, all the local TV stations can take it.
Print organizations, text organizations, the radio people can pull the audio from it.
You'll still do other interviews, but you're showing people in time of a crisis, you're not ducking
for cover.
You're not hiding.
You're not hiding behind lawyers and press releases.
The CEO, whoever the highest ranking official is in the organization, is putting his or her face forward,
answering in the video the most obvious questions before they're even asked, showing transparency.
That goes a long way to making the community regulators, other interest groups, your clients, customers,
the community feel better about you during a time of crisis.
It's an underused technique, but it's incredibly helpful, incredibly powerful, and will go a long
way to help preserve and protect your reputation during a time of crisis.

--- Drastically Reduce Your Time Training Employees and Others ---

The last big category that I wanted to have you think about, it's the last one I put on the list for
a purpose, because I don't think it's quite as relevant to most people.
But the last category is video to create online training.
Why don't you have a course here on YouTube?
Now, you might not think of yourself as a full time professional trainer.
You may say, well, T.J., you're just projecting because I am a trainer.
That's right.
But think about it.
If there's any form of expertise you have that other people could value from, maybe you do want to
make it available in the form of an online course, if nothing else, just for your own employees or
people in your organization, it could perhaps save you time.
If they go through a video training course from you before having to spend time with you.
Everyone could win.
They could watch it and we and watch it for certain key points rather than you having to remind a new
employee ten times about a particular issue.
So I want you to give it some thought.
It's really not that hard and the stakes are just not that high.
If you do it on a subject and you don't make a million dollars from it, big deal.
That's not something you put all your time and energy and efforts into.
And you don't have to put a lot of money into it.
There have been times, for example, when I just had a spare hour and I did an hour long course on
body language, people don't hire me to help them with their body language.
But I do get questions from time to time from my public speaking and media training clients about body
language.
So I said, well, why don't I just throw together a course on body language for people who are going
on TV or trying to come across as more professional when they're speaking or in the office place?
I put together the course.
And you know what?
It's not going to pay off the house or buy a swimming pool, but it has generated thousands of dollars.
I realize that might not be your revenue model.
But it couldn't hurt, and if you have expertise, share it sometimes just packaging it in a way where
you call it, of course, helps other people want to take a look and learn from you.

--- Before We Start, Here is the #1 Tip to Improving Your Communication Skills ---

Before we even start this, cause I got to give you one quick tip, and this one tip will help get you
to the top one percent of all students in this course and frankly, to the top one percent of all speakers
and media communicators.
Here it is.
You've got to practice saying what it is you want to say on video and you have to watch it and you have
to watch it repeatedly.
You have to get friends to critique it.
And you have to post that video or a link to that video from your YouTube channel in the discussion
section of this course.
If you do this, I guarantee you you'll be in the top one percent and you'll be in great shape if you
watch all the videos one hundred times, read all the books one hundred times, but you don't record
yourself on video, you're frankly not going to get much out of this course.
So please, I beg you today, not tomorrow, but today.
Record yourself speaking.
Watch it, post it here.
Let others look at it.

--- Eliminating Speaking Anxiety ---

If you have a fear of public speaking, relax, it just means your normal.
Most people have a fear of public speaking.
In fact, numerous polls have shown that the number one fear people have is public speaking.
So it's actually kind of weird if you don't fear public speaking, as Jerry Seinfeld always points out
because of this poll, it means most people, if they had to go to a funeral, would rather be in the
casket than delivering the eulogy.
Now, I think that is going too far.
I think most people, if you said, all right, you have to jump out of this plane without a parachute
or jump off this cliff or give a short speech, most people would be very happy to give that speech.
But I do think that giving a speech is one of those things that the average person could be asked to
do in the course of a normal week is the thing that creates a lot of tension that makes them uncomfortable.
So I do understand why people say they fear public speaking.
But I've got a little test for you right now.
If I say to you, you're going to go to a restaurant tonight and see your three best friends, it's
going to be a noisy, crowded restaurant.
There will be a lot of people around.
And you're going to talk to your best friends about the game you all saw last night that you care about
or a particular movie you all saw in the last week.
And everyone's passionate about it.
And now it's your turn to talk about what you thought of it.
And you've got a glass of wine or whatever you enjoy.
Now, are you nervous when you're talking?
Chances are no.
Well, guess what?
That's public speaking.
You're in a room.
There are a lot of people there and your mouth is moving.
You're speaking.
You guys sit.
Well, T.J., that's different.
Relaxed with friends.
It really isn't different.
The reason you're comfortable is, you know, how you're coming across.
You're feeling relaxed.
But the fact that there's a room full of people and your mouth is moving and sound is coming, that's
not actually making you nervous.
But you are doing public speaking now.
Why do I point that out?
It's because I believe most people who are nervous about public speaking are nervous in a narrower context.
They're nervous about speaking in public, in school or in business where they're not quite sure how
they're coming across and they're not quite sure if the information they're presenting is interesting
to anyone or is understandable to anyone.
If you're talking about the big game last night that you saw and you saw it with your buddies or your
friends, you know, they understand what you're talking about.
There's that sense of commonality.
And yet if you're giving a new business pitch, if you're talking to an angel investor or a venture
capitalist about why this person should fund your organization for a million dollars, you may be feeling
really scared and nervous.
But I want to suggest to you it's not really about public speaking.
It's really more about this particular situation of do I have an interesting message?
Are they going to like me?
Those are separate issues.
If you absolutely, positively can never speak in public, if you go to a restaurant with your family
members and you can't talk at all because you're just so afraid of people around, I'm afraid this course
isn't for you.
I'm not going to be able to help you.
But if you're like most people where you are comfortable in certain situations, but then deathly afraid
of other situations, this course is really going to help you.
Now, let's take a step back.
Why are we nervous when we speak?
Evolutionary biologists believe that human beings are programmed to fear being separated from the crowd.
It's a defense mechanism.
In prehistoric days, if you're a part of the herd, doesn't matter if you're a gazelle or deer or human
beings.
If you're away from the herd, you're vulnerable.
Some lion or tiger bear can see just you zoom in on you, grab you, kill you and eat you.
So when you're standing up to speak the whole herd, you were with the audience.
They're over there.
You're now standing.
You're the only person everyone can see.
So from an evolutionary, biological standpoint, it makes sense to be nervous.
So your body is sending adrenaline throughout everywhere in your veins.
And because of that, your brain is shutting down because your body is saying, don't think run.
And that's why if you've ever noticed, your palms might get wet.
If you weren't wearing shoes, you would notice the bottoms of your feet are getting wet.
That's because your body is preparing you for flight.
Your body is preparing to run away from what it senses is a dangerous situation.
You being isolated from the crowd now.
The good news is, even though on some college campuses, the audience can be rude or heckle.
It's highly unlikely that any audience member is going to attack you, physically, attack you and kill
you and eat you.
That's just not likely to happen.
So at some level, we've got to hide that from our own sense and not worry about it and instead focus
on what we've really got to do.
And that is speak in a way that's interesting and understandable and relevant to your audience.
The number one way to get over being afraid of speaking is you got to focus exclusively on your audience
helping them.
If you're really focused on helping your audience understand something, learn something, you don't
even have the luxury of thinking about yourself.
At that point, your nerves will melt away.

--- Avoid Fake Solutions That Don't Work ---

If you have a fear of public speaking, you've probably tried a few solutions in the past, let me name
some of them and kind of debunk myths surrounding them.
For starters, there's this idea that you can just take a drug.
There is a drug.
There are beta blockers out there that will keep you from getting tensed up.
But if you're still giving an awful speech, if you're still boring, what good does it do?
And what happens when you have to speak and you don't have these beta blockers?
I have had clients have used beta blockers.
I do not recommend them now.
They don't make you high, but they do keep you from being as tensed up.
I think that's masking the problem.
The real problem is you're not certain.
You have a great message and a great speech and we've got to focus on that.
That relates to some of the other solutions.
People said, let me just do a couple of shots.
I do a couple of shots of tequila.
I'll be relaxed and I'll do fine.
I get the problem quite often is not that you're tensed up.
The problem is you haven't prepared the right way and you're not absolutely certain that you're going
to give a great speech.
The problem with drinking a little is alcohol on most people affects your memory.
I'm not talking about after you've had fourteen drinks and you can't remember your name.
A lot of people, even for one drink, it slows down the recall process of your memory.
So it's even harder to think about what you were going to say.
Now you're already tense and nervous, so your brain isn't working as well as it normally does.
So if you add that little extra element of the alcohol, it slows you down even more.
Plus, with alcohol, for some people, it can make you read, can also make you a little sweaty.
That will make you look nervous.
The other problem with having alcohol, even one glass of wine before a speech is quite often people
come up to you afterwards, shake your hand.
It may be the only time they meet you in their entire life.
If they're smelling alcohol on your breath, that may be the one thing they remember.
So I don't recommend that some people said, well, if I just have green tea, it'll calm me down.
Maybe, but it won't make you a better speaker.
There are those who like to deal with hypnosis or visualization techniques.
If I just visualize myself getting a standing ovation, everything will be great.
Or if I convince myself I'm not nervous with speaking, I'm not saying there's no value in those things.
But my point is you're masking the underlying problem.
The problem is you've got to make sure you have a great, interesting, relevant speech for this audience.
So let's not try to cover it up.
Other techniques people use, they think, well, if I just read my speech the whole time, then no
one will notice that I'm looking scared because my eyes will be down.
Well, if you read your speech, you're going to put everyone to sleep and you're going to seem scared.
And that's the problem with using a teleprompter.
Or some people say, well, if I just sort of stand back here and read the bullets on my PowerPoint,
then no one will notice me.
They'll all be focused on the PowerPoint.
No, they won't.
If you do that, everyone will be focused on this.
That's right.
Reading their email.
So these are all awful tactics that people have to cope with their fear of public speaking, but it
doesn't deal with the underlying cause.
A step back a minute.
Let me ask you this.
If I if I told you that I had a deathly fear of walking through Times Square naked because people would
laugh at me and think I tell me I look stupid and I'd be worried about gash in my fat, or am I going
to get arrested for indecent exposure?
Am I going to be in the news tonight?
Would you tell me, teacher, here's a pill so you wouldn't worry about it or here's a bottle of tequila,
get drunk and you won't worry about walking naked through Times Square.
Let's just visualize yourself getting a standing ovation with everyone saying how wonderful you look
naked.
Would you give me that advice or would you say for crying out loud, T.J., put some clothes on before
you walk through Times Square?
I think you would do that.
Similarly, think about how you get ready to go to your office or your school or place of business every
morning.
If you're like most people, you get up, you look in the mirror, get out of the shower, you look
in the mirror, you get dressed, you're shaving, putting on makeup, you look in the mirror.
So by the time you leave your house and walk into your office, you've looked at the mirror numerous
times.
And, you know, there's not grape jelly all over your face.
It's not lipstick over here because you've looked you've.
Independent verification, so as somebody said to you, OK, now be nervous when you walk into that
office of eight colleagues you've seen every day for two years, you've probably say, well, how can
I be nervous?
I mean, I know what I look like and this is how I want to come across.
This is the best I can do.
There's no.
So you wouldn't be able to be nervous because you have a process in place and because you looked in
a mirror, you didn't visualize yourself having your hair combed and your makeup on.
You actually looked in a mirror.
Well, when it comes to speaking, there is a similar process and that involves practicing.
Your presentation on video will be talking about that and further lessons.
But we can't get to that until I have sort of gotten rid of these bad ideas out there.
There's so many bad ideas on how to mask your insecurity about public speaking.
The reality is there's a great reason for being nervous about speeches and talks because chances I don't
want to sound mean here, but chances are your speech might be really boring.
It might be really awful.
Now, why am I saying that?
It's because think about it.
Most speeches, most talks, most presentation, most PowerPoint presentations are really dull.
They're just boring data dumps.
So if you're nervous about being a speaker and standing up and giving a presentation, it may just mean
you're a nice person and you're feeling sort of awful or embarrassed or ashamed about boring people
to death.
Well, the solution isn't for you to feel better about getting an awful speech.
The solution is for you to actually give a great presentation.
And you can.

--- The Process of Eliminating Fear ---

The way to eliminate fear with public speaking is to come up with a process, something you can do every
single time, so that we're not leaving anything up to chance that you're not wondering about what to
do.
Imagine this.
If I told you, OK, you must dictate a memo about what your business does, what the biggest goals
are in the next three months.
And you can't spell check it, edit it or review it.
You simply have to dictate it into a machine, into the computer hit send.
And it's going to go to your boss, the board of directors, everyone in the media, every client customer
and all of your colleagues.
And this written document is going to be sent in an email from you.
Would that make you nervous?
Would you ever do that?
I could tell you that would make me nervous because it would be filled with misspellings.
There would be typos, there would be poor grammar.
Most likely it would be a jumbled mess because that would be my rough draft.
So most of you would never, ever, ever do that.
Guess what?
If you ever give a speech and you were talking it out loud to your audience, you're giving your rough
draft, rough drafts by definition or what?
They're rough.
You should be nervous if you're just tossing it out for the first time.
However, if I told you, OK, you have to send a memo giving a summary of what you've done last quarter,
what goals are for the next quarter and you've got two weeks, you can type it, edit it, refine it,
use grammar, check you spell check, you can send it to other colleagues, get their input, edit it,
refine it.
And you've got two weeks and you actually do the work and you go through four or five drafts right before
you said you hit the send button.
If I say, well, are you nervous now, try to be nervous, I doubt you'd be able to be nervous.
Why?
Is it because you're convinced you're the world's greatest writer?
Probably not.
But you have a system in place.
You wrote it, you rewrote it.
You read it through spell check.
I always had to use spell check.
There's sometimes when I misspell every single word in a document that I've typed.
But you're going to have a system, spellcheck added it, perhaps have other colleagues look at it,
email it to three colleagues you trust, get feedback.
So by the time you hit send, you're not feeling any tension.
Doesn't mean you're guaranteed that your boss will approve the budget or whatever you're asking for.
But you're not nervous about the actual way you're communicating in this text document because you have
a system, you have a process, you have an editing process, you have a refining process.
And that's why you're not nervous.
Most of us, when we're asked to send a document and we're given notice, I'm here to tell you you can
do the exact same thing with your speeches, with your talks, with your PowerPoint presentations.
But it's not about writing and rewriting text because that's not the final output.
The final output is you speaking.
So you're going to have to speak out loud, captured on video and figure out what you like, don't like
and keep refining it.
That's the process for getting a great presentation.
When you have a great presentation and you know it's a good presentation, it actually becomes extremely
difficult to be nervous or fearful.

--- The Fear of Boring ---

A huge part of what's driving this fear of public speaking is just people being polite, fearing that
they're going to bore an audience.
No one wants to be a bore.
If you're a sensitive person and I assume you are, you don't really want to be rude and bore people
to death.
Here's the problem with most speeches, even with confidence speakers, is it's just a big data dump.
It's like here's a stack of every single fact about what my organization has done for the last quarter
or everything my business has done for the last two years.
And I'm just going to throw it all at you.
It's boring.
It's tedious.
It's a data dump.
Nobody likes that.
But unfortunately, that's what passes for so many speeches in the business world, academic world as
well.
In the nonprofit world, it's something that affects my clients all over the globe.
The solution is don't give a boring data dump.
So much of being a good speaker and appearing to be confident.
Ultimately, being confident is being a better editor.
Figuring it out of everything I could say on this subject.
What's most important?
How have I really narrowed it down to what my audience has to know now?
I've been training presidents, politicians, CEOs, prime ministers, Nobel Peace Prize winners, senators,
members of parliament for 30 years.
And I want to give you quickly the advice.
They pay me a lot of money for.
I'm going to give it to you right now.
And it all comes down to this.
Narrow your presentation down to just five ideas.
Have an example, preferably a story for each one, and practice on video till you're happy with it.
If you follow those few tips, you can be forget just getting over your fear of speaking.
You can be a great speaker.
You could be a fantastic speaker.
You could be a just world class speaker if you just follow those tips.
But if you go into the speech all nervous and flustered and I want these people to think I'm smart,
so I'm taking all these pages of fact after fact and bullet point after a bullet point on complex chart,
what you're doing is trying to mask your insecurities, but it doesn't work.
You'll just look more scared and more nervous.
It doesn't work.
Truly confident speakers.
No, I don't have to tell these people everything in the world I know on this subject.
It's my job to put a spotlight on just one or two or at most a handful of ideas.
Now, the reason I say five, a handful is for years and years and years with all of my clients and
I work with people from six continents.
First thing I ask them is tell me about the best speaker you've seen in the last year, maybe the last
five years.
Now, tell me every single idea, every message you remember from that presentation.
Sometimes people don't remember anything.
They just like this person's style.
Sometimes they remember one idea occasionally two, sometimes three ideas every few months.
And I ask this question every week.
Somebody will remember for ideas or the best speaker they've seen in years.
Every six months, usually one person will remember five ideas from the best speaker they've seen that
year, perhaps ever in their lifetime.
Know all the years I've asked that question, I've never had anyone tell me they remember more than
five ideas for the best speaker in the world.
So if you want to be great, focus on no more than five ideas.
Pretty simple.
And yet people hear me say that they agree with me.
They nod, they tell me they only remember two or three ideas from the best speaker they've ever seen.
It's their turn to get up and give a speech and the speech training.
And what do they do?
They've got 50 pages.
Eighty nine points or a bullet point slide with eighty nine points and complex graphs.
Complexity is your enemy because at some level, even if it's a subconscious level, you know, you're
boring your audience to death.
It's also putting a lot of pressure on you to either remember stuff or to read a whole bunch of stuff.
And you're not used to reading in front of people.
That's difficult.
I want to make your life easier.
One of the reasons you're nervous before you're giving a speech is you're trying to do something very
unnatural.
If you're all of a sudden listing a whole bunch of bullet points and a whole bunch of data, that's
not the way you usually talk.
Most human beings, they're walking down the hallway.
A colleague asked them a quick question to focus on just answering that question.
If it relates to an issue, they.
Talking to a client the day before, they'll say, oh, yeah, Smithers and our Chicago office call
me about that, and he said they'll instantly relate it to an actual experience that's we all do as
human beings talking one on one.
We give up.
We get to give this serious speech.
We stop doing that.
Here's the little secret.
Great speakers do the same thing you do when you're in the hallway.
They just treat it like it's a conversation with one person.
They give examples.
They give stories.
The biggest difference between great speakers and awful speakers is that great speakers illustrate every
single key point with a story that awful speakers say, I'd love to tell stories, but there's no time.
I got all this data to go through so you might not aspire to be the next Anthony Robbins.
You may hate public speaking.
You may go for the rest of your life trying to avoid public speaking.
That's OK.
But I do want you to know it's actually very simple to be not just OK, not just average.
It's actually pretty easy to be great if all you do is this one thing.
Illustrate your key points with a story.
A story is simply you recounting a conversation you had with a real client, a real colleague, a real
customer about a real problem and how you felt.
That's all a story is.
So when you have good stories and you know, audiences will understand them and remember them and get
something out of it, it fills you with confidence.
It makes your life so much easier.
It makes it the stress just melt away because everybody's winning.
You know, you're succeeding.
You know, your audience is helping.
So that's the process.
You can have all the great skills in the world, a booming voice and good hand motions and a straight
tie.
But if your speech is really boring and it's a boring date it up, it's not going to matter.
You're going to be awful.
So even if you're not nervous, maybe you should be.
However, if you have a good speech structure, no more than five points and an example, a story for
each one of your points, you're going to be great.
You're going to be so much better than all the other speakers that day and you're going to know it.
And when you know it, the tension, the anxiety, the fear, it just melts away.

--- Rehearse Your Presentation On Video ---

OK, folks, this is the part of the course where we separate those who actually want to get over their
fear of public speaking versus those who just want to sit around and whine and cry.
And baby, I don't mean to sound like I'm insensitive, but I have a very, very specific exercise for
you to do.
And I feel so strongly about it that I guarantee you this will work and you will get over your fear
of public speaking if you do what I ask you to do.
In fact, I feel so strongly I will give you your money back for this cause I will make sure you get
your money back from this course.
Plus, I'll even send you a copy of my book.
This was the number one USA Today bestseller, BusinessWeek bestseller, Secretive, Foolproof Presentations
in a digital format.
I'll send it to you free of charge if you try what I'm doing and you say you still have a fear of public
speaking.
This is the part where people quit the course and say, well, I don't like T.J. anymore.
I kind of like to be before, but I don't like him anymore.
Here's what I'm asking you to do.
I need you to practice your speech, pull out of your pocket a cell phone or any camera, and you've
got to record your speech and you've got to watch it.
Now, I know some of your teach, and I like the sound of my own voice or I don't like the way I look
or my hair's falling out or I'm getting jowls or my eyes are beating.
I've heard it all before.
I've felt it before, too.
OK, but here's the thing.
Everyone in your audience, whether it's a classroom or a thousand people at a trade association convention,
they're all going to have to hear your voice.
They're all going to have to watch you.
So if they're going to have to, you might as well know what they're seeing and hearing.
That's why it's critically important for you to practice on video.
I can tell you very few people do this.
It's emotionally hard, but it's not hard to do.
If this were a course on how to dunk a basketball or become a world class violinist or how to hit a
hole and what those things are legitimately hard to do.
And if I promised you I could have you do that in a day, I'd be lying.
But this is different anyway.
If you have the ability to move your mouth and have sounds come out and someone else perceives it as
language, you can do what I'm asking you to do.
Doesn't even matter if you have your limbs or you can walk around.
As long as you can talk, you can do what I'm talking about.
So I need you to practice your speech.
You can lock yourself in a closet.
Doesn't have to be in public in front of a thousand people.
Practice your speech again.
Just pull out your cell phone, use a webcam and talk to it and record it.
Now, if you stop there, you haven't done any good whatsoever.
You have to watch the video.
When you watch the video, you have to take careful notes on what you like and what you don't like.
I can tell you right now, if you're like most people, you're going to hate most of it.
Join the club.
Most people can't stand the sound of their own voice.
Don't like the way they look.
I had a client once she started watching and listening to her own video and she started to cry.
Now, I was about to say what I normally do in those situations.
Hey, relax, nobody's twenty one anymore.
My hair is falling out.
I'm getting wrinkles.
Relax.
I was about to say that to her, but then I realized I couldn't because she in fact was twenty one.
And you know what she was Miss Universe at the time had a fabulous voice beyond belief and was gorgeous,
extraordinarily gorgeous.
She didn't like the way she sounded, she didn't like the way she claims.
She had never seen herself on video before.
So if you don't like everything about how you sound or everything about how you look, you are in good
company.
I can look at a video and say, oh, my gosh, more of my hair is falling out.
I'm getting more.
What happened to my chin?
I mean, we can all point the things we don't like on video.
It doesn't matter.
You have to do it in the same way.
You have to proofread and spell check a memo before you send somebody an email.
If it's an important business document, you're going to have to refine and edit your presentation.
Your presentation is not the PowerPoint slide.
It's not the typed word script.
Your presentation, your talk, your speech is you literally speaking.
So if you want to refine it or improve it, there is only one way to do it.
You have to record it on video.
Now, when I got into this business 30 years ago, video cameras were big.
They were expensive.
A few people had them.
And you arguably had an excuse to not video rehearse every single speech.
Those excuses are gone.
Everyone, at least in developed nations, is completely surrounded by video cameras.
Every cell phone, every tablet, every iPad, every laptop has a video camera.
So when you say, oh, I didn't get to it or I didn't get around to it, what you're really doing is
saying I'm very happy being nervous and fearful of public speaking and I don't want to get better.
That's what you're saying.
So I'm not letting you off the hook.
Don't kid yourself.
You got to practice on video.
Now, if you practice on video once and take notes of what you like and don't like and stop, it's not
going to help you at all.
It's actually going to make you worse because that last image of yourself is going to be of this video
where all you can do is think of the three things you hate about yourself.
You have to then quickly right away, as soon as you finish watching it, stand up or you could sit
down, speak again and record it again.
Don't try to solve every single problem.
Focus on one or two things you don't like and do less of it this time.
So if you saw yourself fidgeting a great deal the whole time with the ring on your finger, try to give
your same speech and not touch your ring finger.
Focus on one or two things at a time.
Watch the video, raise it again.
All the things in one column you didn't like all things in another column you did like.
And ideally the likes the likes get higher dislikes go lower until you get to the point where you actually
like your speech and you're confident that this is the way you want to come across, this is the best
you can get.
Think of it as I mentioned in earlier lesson.
You're getting ready to go to the office.
You it's a big meeting that day.
You're dressed exactly the way you want.
You've looked in the mirror, you've shaved, you put on your makeup.
At that point, you're confident you look the best you can.
Look, you're no longer worried that, oh, my hair, if I had here is my hair standing up.
Is my tie crooked?
You know how you look.
So you're not nervous.
The exact same thing happens when it comes to practicing your speech on video.
You keep practicing and keep practicing until you can point to the scream and say, wow, if I can be
as good as that guy or that woman, I can sound like that and look like that.
I'll be happy.
I'll be the star of my company or my industry or my school.
Now, you might be able to do that in one take.
It might take a hundred takes.
Guess what?
Your audience doesn't care.
I don't really care either.
I mean, I'd like it to happen as quickly as possible, but all I care about is that you get to the
point where, you know, you look your best, you know, your sound, your best at that point becomes
incredibly difficult to be nervous because you know how you're coming across.
Now, I'm not nervous speaking to you right now.
This is a form of public speaking.
Thousands of people are likely to see this.
I'm not nervous, not because I'm convinced that I'm the absolute best speaker in the world or the best
looking person in the world.
That's not it.
It's just everything I'm saying to you now.
I've said before on video and I've watched it, so I know I can't come across any better than this.
I know how I look.
I know how I sound.
I know the speed of my voice.
So I'm not filled with any nervousness or anxiety and not second guessing myself.
And that's what makes me relaxed and that's what makes this fun.
Now, you might not ever get to the point where you think of public speaking is fun, but if you eliminate
all the uncertainty, the wondering about how you're coming across, it makes it so much less stressful.
So can you ignore every single thing I say in this whole course?
If you follow this one tip, practice your speech on video until you like it.
If you do that, I guarantee your nerves will be gone.
Your fear of public speaking will be gone.
If you don't do that, you're on your own.

--- Cheat the System ---

Here's another tip for you, if you want to have a lot fewer fears when it comes to speaking and giving
presentations, I want you to cheat.
That's right.
You heard me.
I want you to cheat.
So many people spent all this time of memorization, staying up late at night, going over and over
to try to memorize why that's a lot of work.
Now, I'm not suggesting you sit there and read your whole speech or read below.
That puts everybody to sleep and destroys eye contact.
But I do want you to have a cheat sheet.
By that I mean one and I mean literally one sheet of paper, preferably a half a sheet of paper that
has, you know, I mean, this has everything I say for the entire course.
This is my outline.
You need an outline for your presentation by having it on a single sheet of paper.
You don't have to pick it up and turn pages.
You could put it down on a lectern, on a table next to where the glass of water is.
No one will know.
They'll think you're just so smart, so confident because you're speaking to them, but you're not memorizing
things.
You're following the outline.
But if you did what I ask you to do, which is narrow your presentation down to five points and have
a story, an example for each one, then you really shouldn't have more than about ten bullet points
on your piece of paper and take a few seconds to make the font large.
That way you don't have to stop put on glass and do this.
You could just be walking by, putting your glass of water down, glancing at it, and you can appear
to be supremely confident, knowledgeable and authoritative.
How many times have you seen a profile of some rising politician or CEO?
And it's obvious the journalist really liked the person and they say and so-and-so spoke for an hour
without notes, as if this makes the person a genius and a confident genius.
Well, maybe they spoke without notes, but maybe they had notes the whole time, but because they never
touched them.
And they didn't stop and put their head down like that, it wasn't noticeable to anyone.
I can tell you I give speeches, presentations all over the world, sometimes 30 minutes, 40 minutes,
sometimes a 90 minute keynote.
I never speak without notes, but no one ever has any idea because I limit it to a single sheet of paper
and I have large font and no one sees me touch it.
That is a secret that you can use and it will dramatically boost your confidence and it will elevate
you as a speaker in the eyes of your audience.
So please don't try to memorize stuff.
Put it on a one page outline.
And if you're saying, well, it doesn't fit on one page, I need more space, that means you don't
need more paper.
That means you need to be a better editor.
Narrowed it down to your top five points and you'll be in much better shape and it will all fit on a
single sheet of paper in large font.

--- Practice Makes...Comfortable ---

If I asked you, how did you meet your spouse or your significant other, do you think you could be
nervous if I asked you, what's your favorite TV show, your favorite food, or what your parents do?
Do you even think you could be nervous?
Chances are no, because you've answered all those questions many, many times.
You know what the answer is?
You know what to say, how to say it.
You're so familiar with it.
If you're really hard to be nervous, if you're just talking one on one to someone.
Well, speaking is like anything else.
The more you do it, the more familiar it becomes, the harder it is to be nervous.
You can be nervous as the older folks who are married can relate to this.
You can be nervous on a first date.
But if you're sitting home alone on a Saturday night with someone you've been married to for 30 years,
you're probably not going to be nervous.
You might be feeling other things.
You may be blissfully happy, but you're probably not going to be filled with nervousness about the
idea of being alone with this person because you're familiar with it.
It's something you're used to.
Now, if you only speak once every five years, you're going to be nervous.
But here's the thing about speaking every single day, you're surrounded by opportunities to speak.
Now, don't get caught up in this distinction between a formal speech, a PowerPoint speech in front
of ten thousand people versus a talk or anything else.
I really mean, just any time you're talking in front of more than one person, let's call that public
speaking, because it's not just an intimate, friendly conversation with one person.
All of us have opportunities all the time to speak.
If you are at a meeting, it could be a Monday morning staff meeting with thirty people present.
And you normally never say anything.
Simply asking a question is a type of public speaking.
And for most people, if you're nervous, just raising your hand at a meeting creates some anxiety.
What I'm suggesting, force yourself to do it.
Make one comment, one question any time you're in a meeting, and it'll be easier the next time.
If you're at a conference and you see a keynote speaker, famous speaker perhaps, and there's five
hundred people in the room, they may allow for questions.
Will typically only seven people get up, be one of those seven people.
If you have a question for your boss and there's a staff and don't wait till the end and ask privately,
ask in front of everyone, maybe wanted to be in a leadership position for your child's scouting troop
or some other civic activity, but you're afraid of the speaking aspect.
Force yourself to do that.
The more you speak, the better.
You may have an opportunity with your business or a civic group to create a YouTube video.
That's the perfect time to practice because you have complete control.
You can speak on that video.
Look at if you don't like it, hit delete, just don't upload it.
But if, for example, you have a passion for raising money for the Cancer Society or the ALS Foundation,
then speak out.
It could be just in a video that you put on your own website, your own blog, your own Facebook page.
But it's more speaking.
The more you speak, the better you get No one no to the harder it is to be nervous.
It's very difficult to be nervous about something you do on a regular basis.
So practice doesn't necessarily make perfect, but practice does dramatically reduce anxiety.

--- Practice Your Presentation Skills Homework Using the TJ Walker AI Clone ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- The Confident Speaker's Attitude ---

Your attitude towards public speaking really does have a profound effect, so here's one tip for you.
Stop telling yourself, oh, I have a fear of public speaking.
I'm a speaking phobia.
I hate speaking.
I'm not good at speaking.
Just stop it already.
Stop with a pity party.
OK, speaking is one of the few things in this world that is an important skill that anyone can do.
Not everyone can be a scratch golfer.
Not everyone can dunk a basketball.
Not everyone can be a world class violinist or ice skater.
But if you have the ability to have even one conversation that's coherent with one friend, you already
have all the skills you need to be not just an acceptable or OK public speaker, but a great public
speaker.
But your attitude does have an impact.
Now, there have been numerous studies, people who tell themselves constantly they're awful at math
actually get worse at math.
But there are plenty of things in life where simply saying, oh, I'm great at this, wonderful, it
doesn't really help you.
And I can go out to the golf course today and I can say, well, I'm going to be better than Tiger Woods.
I'm going to get Holden one after Holden.
I can have a great attitude.
We'll get out on that course.
And I'm going to be hitting in the sand trap in the lake, in the woods.
I'm going to shoot one hundred and eighty, and that's cheating.
So there are plenty of things in life or simply having a good attitude doesn't help.
Public speaking is different.
Public speaking is one of the few things in life or simply telling yourself, hey, I like this, I'm
good at this.
It helps.
There's a crowd psychology that goes on.
One of the things that is remarkably true of all great speakers, I don't care if you like their politics,
what they stand for, their personality, but when you see them speak, they exude the sense that they're
having a great time.
They couldn't imagine this going any better.
Whether you loved Reagan, whether you like Bill Clinton speaking the thing they both and fair minded
people would say, they're both great speakers.
The one thing they have in common is you get the sense that they're having fun with this, that they
like this and that they're good at it and that they know they're good at it.
So it's not just as simple as fake it till you make it.
But if you have a smile on your face and you exude this sense of I like speaking, I like the fact that
I'm in front of you people here today getting to share with you the good things I'm doing in my organization
is doing that rubs off in a very positive way.
People will perceive you as very confident and it'll just make the process fun for you.
And it's very, very difficult to get nervous or fearful of things that are fun for you that you're
good at.

--- Long-term Speaking Goals and Conclusion ---

I hope you've taken away something from this public speaking course on how to reduce your fears and
anxieties.
I want to leave you with just a few basic things I want you to focus on.
For starters, have some actual goals for yourself as a speaker.
As far as how often you want to speak, where you want to speak, that will really help you get better
and better.
And the better you get at something, the harder it is to be fearful.
So try to find some places to speak and it could be non-threatening.
Toastmasters is a great place to practice because you're in front of other people.
They're not actual clients, customers, colleagues, bosses.
It's a great way to practice.
But I do fundamentally believe that you and anyone else can be a good public speaker, even a great
public speaker if you want to.
It requires absolutely no genetic talents or inborn talent.
That's something that anyone can learn how to do.
You may have heard of the real estate mogul, Barbara Corcoran.
She now speaks all over the country at large, speaking fees.
She's on the TV show Shark Tank.
She essentially makes her living these days speaking.
But very early on in her career, she was asked to speak at a real estate convention.
She stood up front of a thousand people.
She froze, she panicked.
Nothing came out.
She ran off the stage.
And now look at her.
She sold her company, made a huge, huge fortune.
And now she speaks all over the world, promoting books, giving speeches, appearing on TV.
And she did about as poorly as you can do for a speech, freezing, panicking, running.
You really can't get much lower than that.
And now, look, I don't care how bad you think you are, how fearful you think you are, you can overcome
it, Joep, and vanish and run away.
You can be like Barbara Corcoran.
You can choke, but then you can come back and get better and better and better.
The final thing I want to leave you with is you're going to ignore most of what I say.
If I do everything I say.
If you just follow this one tip, practice your speeches, practice your presentations on this, on
your cell phone, on any video camera and tell you like it.
If you do that, I absolutely guarantee you your fears of public speaking will be eliminated.
Good luck.

--- Never Confuse Personal Phone Use with Business Telephone Use Again ---

So why is there a need for this course, people have been using phones their whole life these days,
five year olds use phones.
What's the difference for business?
Well, let me tell you, there's a huge difference between how you use a phone in business, your work
life versus your personal life.
There are a lot of things that are perfectly acceptable to do with friends, family.
But if you do it in a business situation, you will lose clients, you will lose customers, you will
lose promotions.
So let's clearly define what we're talking about here.
This is not how to call your best friend and say, let's go to a party.
This is about how to use the phone for business and really understanding the differences, what's appropriate,
what isn't.
If you call your best friend and you don't leave a message, you know they're going to see you call,
they'll call you back.
Doesn't matter.
But if a very important prospect, your client calls you and it goes to your cell phone and you then
call back and you don't leave a message, they have no idea it's you.
They may have had 10 or 20 other calls come in.
They're not going to go through and see what number corresponds to what.
So if they think you didn't return their call, they're going to think you don't care.
You don't want their business, you don't want the job.
So get clear cut example.
What can work?
Calling your best friend or a family member can mean absolute career destruction if you do the same
thing when it comes to how you use the phone in your business life.
So these are the things we're going to cover in this course of really learning this division.
I'm not telling you you have to use my system for every call and your personal.
You don't and you don't have to use the techniques I'm going to advocate in every single situation in
your business life.
But when in doubt, I believe these are the basic principles that will help you the most and eliminate
the chances that you've needlessly offended someone, confused a client, customer, prospect, boss
or co-worker.
These are the principles that will protect you the most and help you advance your message, your agenda,
your business and your career.

--- Why Your Phone is the Best Secret Business App Ever ---

We need to start off by recognizing the unique power of the phone and therefore the human voice.
That's what the phone is good for, conveying the human voice.
And there are a lot of things that are distinct about that.
When you call someone, it shows a certain level of importance.
It's not just a quick email.
It's not just a quick text.
The phone is uniquely valuable for communicating things that are of extreme importance.
I want this job.
We want you to hire us.
We are firing you.
You've had a loved one who has died.
I mean, nobody wants to get an email or a text saying, will you marry me?
Or your child has died or your father has died.
It's considered too impersonal.
That's the beauty of the telephone.
It's much, much more personal.
It's a way of putting a spotlight on a message that you think is important.
It's a way for other people to communicate important things to you.
And that's why you're going to pay attention.
And I'm going to give you some techniques for really making sure it sticks with you.
But it's also why you're going to use the phone to communicate important things, to think about your
own work day.
How many emails do you get in an average day versus an average week?
Now, think about how many phone calls do you get?
If you're like me or most people, you probably get a hundred emails, maybe a thousand emails for every
phone call.
What stands out more now?
You can say you don't like phone calls or it's annoying, but if you're trying to do a serious, important
part of business, get a new client.
There's nothing like a phone call from a new client who says, yes, we want to work with you.
Send over the contract.
Much more powerful than just an email, so always be thinking about not just how to use the phone,
but when it is appropriate, there are times when a simple email or text will be fine, but for important
information, serious stuff, things critical to your business, mission critical to your most important
customers, clients, prospects, your bosses.
That's when if you can't meet in person, the phone is the next best thing.

--- Planning Your Successful Phone Environment ---

When you have an important phone call to make or you'll be receiving one, or if it's an important conference
call, it's important to plan in advance, plan out your environment, to increase the odds that this
is going to be an effective phone call.
For starters, you need to eliminate distractions, find a quiet place if you're talking to your most
important client or you're pitching the most important prospect and you're in a noisy pit of an office.
And there are conference rooms that are quiet at the other end of the hallway or plan in advance and
go down there before you make the call or before the call starts with someone calling you.
You want as quiet and environment as possible.
Now, in some offices or if it's a home office, you may have music on it that may relax you.
It may be soothing.
You may enjoy it.
That's all wonderful.
That's fantastic.
Guess what?
Nobody else cares about what you like for your workday.
If you're calling someone or someone's calling you, all they care about is their message, their ideas,
what's going on, their business, their life, their part of the job.
So eliminate distractions.
One reason you want to make it quiet is if you have to talk over some loud noise that's annoying to
listen to when you're talking over a loud noise.
For example, while driving a car, you're flattening your voice out.
You're making yourself monotone.
And it kind of feels from the other end like they're being yelled at.
Nobody likes someone yelling at them.
You're yelling because you need to hear yourself over just traffic noise, other distractions.
But to the person on the other end of the phone, all they know is you're yelling at them.
They can intellectually realize, well, teachers in a noisy street or noisy restaurant, but emotionally
it's still I'm yelling at them and it's not positive.
Let's talk about driving.
I understand we're all busy.
We all have busy lives.
We're also important.
We all multitask.
Here's the thing.
If you're trying to have an important phone call and you really want someone to pay attention, don't
be driving.
Now, I understand there are times someone's trying to sell you new aluminum siding and you're not sure
you're even interested.
Yeah, you can tell that person to call you on your drive home.
And if you're only giving halfway attention, it's not that big a deal.
It's not going to affect your business because you're not the one selling aluminum siding.
But when it comes to your business, what you're trying to sell, what you're trying to advance, what
you're trying to promote with your vendors, customers, clients, prospects, investors, eliminate
the distractions.
Because when you're driving, there are several things that happen.
There's the the hum of the car.
You can have the most fantastic electric Tesla.
There's going to be all the other sounds going by from other cars, highway sounds honking.
So that's distracting to the person on the other end.
It's also distracting to you.
The other problem is your brain is seeing all this information.
You have to pay attention or you will die.
So you're giving much less attention to the person speaking to you.
So I realize it's tempting.
And if someone wants to start a conference call at five o'clock and you'd like to be on the road, then
going home, the tendency is just get in your car a minute early and take the call in the car.
Don't do it when it's important.
Stay away from driving.
Stay away from noise.
Try not to be outside.
Hey, it's a beautiful sunny day one.
I take it outside.
The birds are singing.
Well, that's the problem.
The birds are singing.
There are too many distractions also within your office.
If you really, really are trying to focus on the person, get what they're talking about, be as responsive
as possible.
I'd go as far as turning off your computer, do what I just did.
I don't want to be distracted right now.
I literally turn my phone off.
I've got to use another phone, obviously, but if I'm using an office phone, turned my cell phone
off that way, if I get texts from friends about what to do Saturday night, I'm not looking down at
that while talking on another phone.
It's not distracting.
The final thing, and some of you are going to hate me for this, but I'm going to give you my best
advice.
You can do with it what you want.
If you really want to plan your environment the right way for making phone calls, don't ever use the
speaker phone.
What are you talking about, T.J.?
We do all of our conference calls on speakerphone.
And how else are people going to hear?
Here's the problem with speaker phone.
The microphone is going to clip certain words.
Can't become cans.
There's confusion.
It's harder for people to understand you.
Number one.
Number two, you have to project your voice.
So you're kind of talking like this and you're projecting and you sound like the school teacher.
It makes you kind of monotone flat.
You can sound angry, it also tires you out.
Frankly, it takes a lot more energy to project if you're talking to a speaker on a conference table,
three feet, four feet, in some cases 10 feet away.
And it's.
Really cut down on the audio quality, frankly, nobody likes it when someone's talking on a speakerphone,
whether it's a big fancy speaker phone system in an office or just the speaker phone on your cell phone.
Again, there are exceptions.
You're trying to learn how to cook something and you're talking to a family member and you're in the
kitchen.
You need both hands.
I understand it.
I get it.
But when you're talking to people on business, they don't like it because the audio quality is worse.
It's harder to hear.
And the back of their mind, they're thinking, well, what's this person doing?
Or are they still typing or are they reading the newspaper?
What do they need their hands for?
Many, many people interpret it, whether intellectually or just emotionally, as a sign of disrespect.
If you're on the speakerphone now, it raises the question, what do you do if there's five people in
your office and everyone needs to hear, well, use a free conference call system, everyone can dial
in and they can be on their phone in a different way.
Or you could even be on a phone, each person individually in the same room and hear it.
Another option you can do is have it on speaker phone, if they're five of your colleagues, you have
to listen to a boss or a client or a colleague.
But then when someone in your room is speaking, pick up the receiver and talk because everyone in the
room can still hear.
But the quality of the audio for the person on the other end will be vastly superior.
Remember, most microphones in phones are built for maximum effectiveness.
If you're just inch and a half, maybe two inches away when you're further away, it really distorts
the audio quality.
So plan your environment to increase your odds of effective communication before the phone call ever
starts.
Whether you're sending a call, initiating one or receiving one.

--- Final Preparation for Your Successful Phone Meetings ---

In addition to planning your environment in advance, before important phone calls, conference calls,
video conferences, it's important to plan everything else you might need because your client, your
customer, your boss might be highly impatient.
They don't want to wait for you to go through a whole bunch of files or have to dig out something or
get up and go to a file cabinet somewhere they want it right now.
So if you get any papers or documents you're going to be referring to during the phone call, the conference
call, the Skype, have it all laid out on your desk.
Additionally, there's nothing like a good old fashioned pad and pen for taking notes during these calls.
And so you think, well, T.J., you old guy, look at that gray here.
Nobody uses pad and pen anymore.
I'll just type here's the problem with typing.
When people hear you typing, it's distracting.
And there's a part of you, part of them wondering what's this person typing?
Are they doing other business while they're talking to me?
Are they chatting with friends on Facebook or are they texting friends saying, you can't believe this
idiot, I'm talking to you on the phone now.
It's just distracting.
This way, whether you have a headset or you're having to hold a phone, you've got one free hand,
a pen, paper or pencil and take detailed notes.
Anything else you need, you're going to be showing slides through any form of a screen, sharing,
using zoom, Skype, have everything ready.
Respect the time of the people you're speaking to in business.
Doesn't matter if it's a co-worker, someone junior to you in another office, respect their time,
they will respect you.
And it's going to ultimately benefit as far as boosting your own reputation.
So plan get everything you need all together in advance of the call.

--- Making Sure Your Phone Passes Your Friend Test ---

You need to know exactly how your technology works.
I don't mean you literally have to open the back of the phone and figure out where every little electronic
device connects.
But you do need to know the basics of what the most effective way is to use your phone.
My recommendation is call a friend.
In this case, it could be a family member and ask them how do I sound and talk to it an inch away,
inch and a half, two inches and on and give get feedback from that on what actually sounds the best.
Because every phone can be a little bit different.
Your voice can be a little different.
You need to know what is the best way to use your phone.
As far as the distance from the microphone, I can tell you right now the best way is not going to be
two feet away with on speaker phone.
We've already talked about that.
I hope I've convinced you not to use speakerphone other than extreme situations where you absolutely
have to have both hands free.
A couple of other things that are relatively modern problems with respect to phones, especially for
those of you who get new cell phones frequently as I do, I had recently upgraded from one iPhone to
the next went to the same company that always told me the phone.
I asked for a protective cover.
I got the protective covid and all of a sudden I'm noticing about a third of the people I'm speaking
to are saying, huh, why they couldn't hear me.
I kept on thinking it was because it was a new phone and he didn't update.
We'll know.
The company that sold me the phone and sold me the protective cover sold me the wrong version of a cover.
So it fit the right size.
But it was for the previous edition and the version they gave me covered one of the three microphones
on the phone.
So it was destroying the audio quality.
I'm ashamed to say it took me a couple of months to finally figure this out.
Very important.
When people tell you they're having trouble hearing you believe them, do whatever it takes to make
sure you're coming across clear.
That's why I recommend testing.
That's why I recommend instantly trying to troubleshoot change things.
Make sure you don't have a cover that's obscuring one of the microphones.
So this is your first homework assignment.
Call family friend.
A colleague could be someone in the next cubicle and ask them to tell you to give you honest feedback.
How does it sound?
You sound muffled.
Is there anything unclear?
How is the volume really get feedback?
And if there's any problem at all, let's figure out the solution right now.
So please don't just fast forward to the next video.
Take two seconds and call somebody and let's really get an assessment, figure out how close you need
to be to your phone and if there are any other problems with the microphone on your phone or if there's
anything covering it.

--- Planning for Winning Conference Calls ---

A great way to connect with team members who live and work in different cities, different countries
or clients spread out around the world is a conference call.
Here are some tips on how to make the most out of your conference calls.
Now, we've already covered.
Please don't use a speakerphone.
You're going to get tired of me saying that some of you will write in the reviews.
You talked about not using speaker phones and yet people still do.
What I want to give you some other tips.
Realize a conference call is a business meeting and it deserves the same amount of planning and respect.
Of any other meeting, too often, people just, oh, let's just hop on a conference call and chew it
out, yet they wouldn't ask people to drive across town and spend an hour meeting with no agenda.
So the first item on your checklist should be have an agenda, know exactly what you want to come across
with, what you want to accomplish in any conference call, have some structure to it.
You'll come across much more effective.
Also realize if other people are talking to you in other cities, they likely are going to be on a speakerphone
because we can't control them if they're multiple people in the same room.
Because of that, it's going to be harder for you to hear.
Sometimes two people will talk at once.
They'll be cross talk.
It'll be much harder.
So you've got to actively listen.
And on the one hand, you don't want to interrupt, but you do want to interrupt quickly.
If you did not hear something, if you didn't understand something.
So what I would recommend is relatively loudly saying, excuse me, I couldn't hear the last 20 seconds.
The audio dropped out or I couldn't hear because of the crosstalk.
Could you please repeat you do it like that.
It's not going to seem like rude interrupting and people will actually appreciate the fact that you're
trying to get the ideas conveyed and that you're trying to really understand them.
Now, sometimes conference calls can get long and before you know it, you're checking email.
I've done it before myself.
You're checking Facebook.
Don't do it.
Really.
Focus.
Listen carefully.
Be thinking visualizing what the person is talking about.
Ask questions when there's a pause, when there's a time.
You don't want to be interrupting people on the phone, whether it's a conference call or any other
call.
But when they've said something and you're thinking about it, it is appropriate to summarize, to paraphrase,
to make sure you're getting it.
Show them your listening.
Show them that you're understanding.
So you do periodically want to paraphrase summarize.
I'd also highly recommend taking detailed notes.
We talked about that in the previous lecture.
Take notes of any important phone call for business, whether it's a conference call or anything else.
But here's something most people don't do but will make your conference calls much more effective,
not only take your notes, but then summarize the meeting from your perspective, summarize what you
think everyone is supposed to do after that and email it to all the participants, whether that's your
official job, whether anyone asked you to do that or not, everyone will be impressed.
Bosses, colleagues, customers, clients.
You know who else this helps you?
We're all human beings.
We all forget things.
So the sheer act of writing it down and then typing it, proofing it and then hitting send email will
make all the key ideas from that conference call really sink in to you much more firmly.
This will help.
It's a little extra work, but not much.
So please give it a try.

--- Look Prime Time Ready for Your Video Calls ---

These days, phone isn't just a phone, it's a modern mini TV studio, which means you can make phone
calls using video, there's FaceTime video, there's Skype, there's all sorts of different applications.
I'm not here to try to promote any one brand.
But what I do want you to do is to think about how you can come across your most effective way possible
when you are speaking to someone over the phone and you're using video.
There's so much more information conveyed.
When there is video, people can see your face, they can see whether you have bags under your eyes
like you haven't slept.
They can detect more about your emotional state.
So it is much more powerful.
I certainly prefer to speak to people through a life Skype video or a WebEx so I can connect with them.
Where I can see them, they can see me.
You might not prefer that it might not be used that often in your corporate culture or your organization.
Your clients might not like it.
But if you do have the opportunity, it's a very powerful tool.
I mentioned in the very first video of this whole course, a couple of tips about the angle and what
makes so many people look bad.
And the reason they don't like video is they are afraid they're going to look awful, stupid, bad.
And if you hold your cell phone down here and it's shooting up your nose, horrible lighting, it is
going to look bad.
So I want to give you some techniques.
If you're going to use a cell phone or any mobile device for a video phone, ways of looking a lot better.
For starters, have the phone a couple of inches above your eyes.
Now, you can even put this on a bookshelf.
And you're standing and you just walk a few feet away, or if you're sitting down, put it on a stack
of books on your desk and aim it that way.
If all else fails, just hold it like this.
Yeah, your arm might get tired, but if it's only three minutes, big deal.
Not suggesting you hold it like this for two hours.
You want to have more light in front of you than behind you.
I'm not suggesting you take all day long and come up with some elaborate lighting grid.
What I am suggesting is just look around your room.
If you're at your desk and there's a window behind you and it's a sunny day and you're holding the camera
in front of you and the windows behind you, it's going to look awful because the light is so bright
coming from outdoors and your face is going to get all dark.
And that what I'd recommend just turn around, have the light from the window hitting your face and
your you're recording from the opposite direction in general.
As long as you have more light on your face, more light going this way instead of coming from behind
you, you'll look fine for any kind of telephone call, Skype conference, video conference with people
that we're back to the whole issue of audio, because if you're holding your phone like this, you're
further away in most cases using your earbuds, the the microphone and headset that comes with a lot
of phones, older iPhones.
The mic is pretty good on that.
So you can just use that if you're going to be doing a lot of phone conferencing through video.
I would recommend you do what I do.
And again, I'm not selling any brand today, but I just use a simple love, like I can plug it on to
my shirt jacket tie.
It cost about 20 bucks from Amazon or any other electronics store.
So you plug it in.
It's much more of a professional looking like professional sounding like it will plug it into a phone
or whatever device you're using.
You really want to take it up a notch.
Now, I do this more with my computer and iPad if I'm doing Skype, but I actually use an earpiece that
way.
I don't have to use the earbuds if I'm using an iPhone.
This is just like what a professional broadcaster uses.
This clicks onto the back.
And then goes round in my ear and you don't see it, so it looks very professional.
Again, this cost like 20 bucks on Amazon and simple earpiece and it's very effective.
You can do it for phones.
You can use it for iPads, any other computer.
So these are some of the basics you need to think about when it comes to using video phone calls.
The other big problem for most people is because they're self-conscious, because they're nervous about,
oh, how am I going to look?
People freeze.
So if you have the best message.
Well, thank you, sir.
We would love to do business with you.
We can do wonders for the marketing of Company X, Y, Z.
The message might be fine, but would you want to do business with that person?
I don't think so, because I looked scared stiff, bored and boring.
So the biggest thing to remember when you're doing any kind of video telephone conference is you have
to move, you have to move your face, you have to move your head.
You need to move your body.
And, yes, you even need to move your hands.
Now, your hands don't have to be visible to the person seeing you.
It may be much tighter shot than how you're seeing me now, but the sheer fact that you're moving your
hands means you're much more likely to be moving your body, your head, your face, your eyebrows,
and you'll look like a real human being.
That's the key.
It's not about being beautiful or perfect or glamorous.
It's just about not looking like a scared stiff, frozen robot.
That's what makes people scared, afraid to do video.
Also, really keep in mind the professionalism of what's behind you.
I have here.
This is what I do when I'm doing a Skype video conference.
This is just a white PowerPoint slide on a TV screen.
You don't have to be that fancy.
But if you're on the road, if you're doing a Skype video conference call and you're at a conference
and you're in a hotel room, don't show an unmade bed behind you.
It's just distracting, looks unprofessional.
And sometimes it's simply a matter of sitting on the bed and you're now showing the wall behind you.
No one can see the bed.
So really look at it, see how other people see you on this video call.
Because if there's anything distracting, I've seen people doing even videos here on YouTube.
Me where behind them you see all kinds of liquor bottles and stuff.
You think, wow, I wonder what this person likes to party at all these distractions.
It's OK to have a professional office, a lamp, photos, something like that.
Books are fine if you're in a library, but just give it some thought because human beings are easily
distracted by any visual that's more interesting than looking at the face.
Give it thought.
And I think what you'll find is video conference calls can be the most effective form of using the phone
of all once you get comfortable with it.

--- Placing Phone Calls Like the Consummate Professional ---

Sanjay, can I speak to Sanjay, that's not how you make a phone call, let's go over some basics now
of when you were the one placing the call in a business setting.
For starters, you need to sound pleasant.
No one wants to deal with someone angry, grumpy, Rasht.
You might be having a bad day.
Nobody else cares.
So for starters, you need to have a pleasant tone of.
Well, I don't mean Mr. Happy.
Ha ha.
Have a nice I don't mean anything fake cheesy, but just a pleasant tone of voice.
And then you need to cover a few basics.
You need to state your name, your organization.
Why you're calling.
Hi, my name is TJ Walker with Media Training Worldwide, I'm calling Jan to follow up on the request
for a proposal she asked me about last week regarding media training for the organization.
Is she available today?
It takes less than 20 seconds, but I've covered the basics, so I don't force the receptionist or some
other administrative assistant or anyone else to go through.
Well, who is this and why is your car why are you calling?
And I tell the person who you're with, I made it all simple, clear, and I'm sending a signal.
I don't know who I'm talking to.
It could be an intern, could be the CEO of a company.
I'm sending a signal that I'm a professional person, that I'm respectful of the people on the other
end of the phone.
And I like to be treated respectfully, too.
So it sounds obvious.
It sounds basic, but so few people do it.
They just say, may I speak to so-and-so?
And it can be abrupt now if you're calling and you're getting the person directly.
If all you do is say I was laying there and you're now talking to Jane, she may be thinking, well,
I don't recognize the number.
Who is this?
I could just say I'm busy.
Not a good time.
What are you going to do then, if you've stated exactly who you are?
Maybe she was expecting your call, didn't recognize the number.
Maybe she's happy to speak to someone from your organization about this issue, even though she didn't
know you were going to call.
So state exactly who you are, why you're calling, where you're from.
Let's start off with the basics.
I know it sounds obvious, but it's often not done.

--- Always Knowing the Best Time to Call Clients and Prospects ---

Hi, Samantha, this is TJ Walker from Media Training Worldwide.
I'm just following up on the email you sent earlier today asking for a proposal for presentation skills
training.
Is this a good time to speak now for five minutes or so?
Ask the person if this is a good time.
It's basic courtesy.
It might not be a good time, but an hour from now might be ask.
It's great information shows your respectful.

--- Now You will Never Wake Up a Client in the Middle of the Night ---

When you're placing calls to clients, prospects, colleagues, you need to be keenly aware of where
they are in the world these days, even one person businesses are international.
You can have clients from any country, any time zone in the world.
You don't want to call someone.
It goes to their cell phone and wakes them up at 3:00 in the morning, even though it's 3:00 in the
afternoon in your office.
So be aware.
If you're not sure, then just go to Google and type in time and that city will tell you what time it
is obviously of some prospect calls leaves a message at 7:00 in the morning.
You don't know where they're calling from and you can't call back until 10.
No one's going to really fault you for that.
If they haven't alerted you as to where they are and you can't know for any other reason.
But if it's an existing client, customer or prospect who tells you what city they're in or what country
they're in, you need to be aware of time zones.
You also need to be aware of their normal workweek.
Some of my clients in the Middle East, they take off Friday and Saturday.
So if I call beyond 8:00 a.m. my time Thursday morning, I've already hit their weekend.
So that's being rude to them.
So you need to be aware of that.
Other clients of mine, even in the Middle East, they have the same Saturday, Sunday days off that
we have here in the United States.
So don't assume it's something you can check in about two seconds on Wikipedia or Google.
But the less you're returning someone's call or calling in them for the first time, hitting them on
the weekend, the better.
It's common sense on the one hand.
But if you're not used to dealing with people internationally, it's not quite so common there.
Also, we'll talk about this in the voicemail section, some cultural differences with respect to voice
mail.
There are some cultures where it's not just the young people, it's people of any age just don't use
voice mail.
You might find it annoying.
If you want to do work in that culture, you'll have to deal with it, you'll be better off sending
an email, perhaps a text if you're calling and you do like I do and you do a lot of calls through Skype,
they're not going to see your number or figure it out.
So you got to figure out some other way of letting them know you called where you reached out to them
because they won't see just by what pops up on the phone.

--- Answering the Phone so Everybody Knows You are Ready for Business ---

Hello, what do you want?
Obviously, that's not how you answer the phone.
Now there are different customs and different organizations.
What I think is the easiest for most people to do is just state their name and their organization.
Someone calls me, doesn't matter what time of day or night, because I do use my personal five different
phone numbers, but I use my personal phone, same as my office phone.
I have things forwarded to this and unless I see it's from a friend or family member, I'll just answer.
TJ Walker, Media Training Worldwide.
This does a couple of things.
If I just say TJ Walker and someone went to my website and they didn't see my name anywhere, they just
wanted to call and ask for proposal for media training or public speaking training.
If I just say TJ Walker, they're going to be confused.
They're going to wonder if they messed up.
Did they dial someone wrong number?
Did they bother someone by saying the organization?
It makes it easy for the person calling me.
So I do recommend you state your name and your organization.
Now, some people highly recommend.
How may I help you?
I don't do that.
It's not wrong if you want to.
I don't think it's essential.
The main thing is you want to sound pleasant.
You may be in a tense conversation with another colleague.
You may have just been fired.
You may be in a bad mood.
You may have a stomach ache.
Nobody else cares.
A prospect calling you doesn't care.
A colleague on the other side of the planet doesn't care.
They just want to talk to you now.
So be pleasant.
Put a pleasant tone of voice on not super fake, fancy syrupy, but just a pleasant tone of voice.
And that lets someone OK, I'm here for you.
That's all it takes when you're answering the phone.

--- Your Clients Will Never Think You are Screaming At Them Again ---

Why I can't hear you, you're looking for what kind of to see how annoying that is.
Here's the lesson.
Don't answer your phone if you're in a really noisy, loud place.
Restaurants can be noisy, nightclubs can be noisy.
Far better to see your phone calls coming in.
Let it go to voicemail and then excuse yourself.
Go outside, go to a quiet place, return the call five minutes later when it's quiet.
This way you can have a normal tone of voice.
You may have a client prospect calling you.
It's 3:00 in the afternoon for them, but it's nine p.m. for you.
You're it and you're off duty.
It's a nightclub.
You're maybe having a good time having a glass of wine or two.
Don't show that side of your life your reality to the client or prospect at that moment.
Find a quiet place.
Wait till you're in a quiet place before you take the call.
You don't not to be shouting over music, over background sound, over the loud clatter of people.
If you're too noisy restaurant, you want quiet when you're taking most of the time.
Of course, there could be exceptions where it's a client you're dealing with.
It's a very intense crisis situation.
You're going back and forth.
They have to get a hold of you instantly.
You've already talked a dozen times a day.
Yeah, maybe you pick up instantly no matter where you are, but otherwise you don't want to expose
someone the first time talking to you and they're hearing you shouting.
It just does not make a good impression at all.
So don't do that.
Speaking of good impressions, if you're out, everybody deserves to relax in their own way.
But if you had a couple of glasses of wine, you're a nice, loud, fun place.
My recommendation just don't take the cold.
Return the call tomorrow because you may think you're perfectly fine, but if you have even a five percent
slurring your speech, that might make a permanent negative impression on a client, customer or boss.
So make sure that you're not doing anything to expose yourself to criticism when you're taking calls
after hours.

--- Knowing How to Sound Your Very Best - Every Time ---

So you've initiated the call, you're on the call.
How do you really come across your best?
I gave you a few tips earlier and I want to reinforce those now.
For starters, have a pleasant tone of voice.
No one wants to talk to a grumpy person, actually.
I know it sounds ridiculous and cheesy, but actually smiling when you're talking on the phone will
help.
You'll have a more pleasant tone and don't ask me why, but somehow it works.
And if you even look at a mirror of yourself smiling, you'll have a more pleasant tone standing.
You'll sound better.
You'll be able to breathe more fully.
You'll be able to gesture more.
You'll be able to resonate more.
So standing when you talk can actually help.
It's not essential.
But if you want to give yourself that final one percent extra, it can be incredibly helpful.
When you're talking to a client customer prospect, don't ever make them feel rushed.
I understand there may be times when you are rushed.
You can always apologize and in a nonracial way say I apologize.
I have to leave now to catch a plane to come see you for the meeting tomorrow.
Give a reason, but otherwise let them talk.
Don't rush.
Also, don't hop right in.
If you're talking to someone who is an existing client, customer prospect or a boss and you already
know them, it could be seen as too rude to abrupt.
Have a little small talk.
Ask how they're doing.
If it's a beautiful day where you are, say how beautiful it is and ask how their day is.
Now, if you sense they're incredibly rushed or they're one of these people who always wants to get
in and out and off the phone as quickly as possible, you can dispense with the small talk, but if
you're not certain, it's better to just spend 30 seconds, 60 seconds on some pleasantries before hopping
into the main purpose of your call.
It's got to be proportional.
If it's really just one quick question from a colleague in the Cleveland office.
Sure.
Call up, ask get it and get on.
But if it is a client, a colleague, someone else you report to and you know, you have to talk to
them for ten minutes and you haven't talked in a few days.
Well, thirty seconds.
Sixty seconds.
It's proportionate.
It's only one tenth of the ten minute phone call.
So try to have some small talk next.
How are you coming across?
And by that I mean that you're using a lot of fillers.
When you're uncomfortable, this comes out when you're talking to clients, prospects, bosses, when
people are uncomfortable, they're thinking, what do I say?
And that's when the fillers, the Oz, the arms, the hers, the nose, the CEOs come out again and
again and again.
My recommendation, record yourself and listen to it.
That's the homework assignment.
I've been very light on homework in this course, so don't complain about the level of homework.
But this is not the sort of class where it really helps to just do multiple-choice test and write a
bunch of sentences.
You need to hear yourself speaking on the phone.
So the homework is I need you to call somebody, have a conversation, get a second cell phone or use
your laptop or iPad to record just your part of the conversation.
Doesn't matter what the other person does.
And I need you to really count your ears, the nose and see.
Are you coming across well beyond that?
Do you come across as somewhat interesting?
Do you like the quality of your voice?
Do you sound fully conversational or do you sound like you're reading a script?
Nobody wants to sound like a script reader and nobody wants to listen to someone who sounds like they're
reading a script.
How many of us get phone calls sometimes daily from some sort of tell a telemarketer and you can tell
it takes less than a second.
To tell when someone's reading, we all have built into us this instinctive ability to detect when someone
is reading to us on the phone, you don't want to sound like you're reading.
And by the way, this applies to conference calls.
Any kind of call.
I do not recommend you ever read on the phone to someone.
They can figure it out.
They can hear it.
Of course, there are exceptions.
If you are doing a quarterly conference call and you are the CFO for a publicly traded company and you
have to read legal boilerplate or your lawyers say you're going to prison, by all means, read, but
realize at that moment you're not trying to really communicate.
You're just checking a box for any other time when you're talking to someone and you've initiated the
call especially.
You want to just talk, you want to be conversational, so I need you to record yourself having a conversation,
ideally work-Related with another colleague, perhaps a friend, a buddy up here, an equal, and just
talk to them as if you were talking to a client, record it, listen to it, figure out what you like,
what you don't like.
That's the homework.
Do it right now.

--- Being a Professional to Every Generation, Regardless of Your Own Preferences ---

OK, I've been holding off on this part of the course now, I let it all hang out here and be totally
candid with you.
There are, in fact, some generational issues when it comes to how the phone is used.
Different people of different generations use the phone differently.
I'm not here to advocate for anyone.
Generate no one generation is better than the other.
It's just different.
But here's the thing.
If you are in business or running a business or an employee and a business, with very few exceptions,
you're going to try to appeal to people of all sorts of generations.
If you're in a bigger organization, there may be people from 16 to 80 working in your organization.
If you have any kind of a business, it could be manufacturing designer t shirts.
Yeah, maybe most of your customers are twenty two years old, but you might have some that are seventy
five years old buying something for their grandchild.
Why needlessly alienate any customer or any prospect.
So I'm advocating that you essentially become multilingual, fluent in generation speak when it comes
to dealing with the telephone and different people are bad at different things.
Believe me, I know people my age and older people who were pitching and screaming for ten years, refusing
to use text.
Well, if a client sends you a text question, you should text back the answer.
So that's the fault of people my age and older who were grumpy.
Stick in the mud is not open to new things.
That was a problem that hurt them in business communication because let's face it, these days you could
be sixty two years old and have a twenty eight year old boss in some corporations, a twenty eight year
old send you a text at three p.m. They're going to want to text answer response if they're in another
city or another location or maybe even down the hall.
They don't necessarily want you to get up or walk all the way down there, send them a big memo or call
them.
They just want to text back.
So I want you to realize I'm not here is just a grumpy old man criticizing the young ones.
Old people can be very guilty of not adapting to new technology and new uses of the phone.
A lot of older people can say, oh, I don't want to do Skype video or zoom because they're nervous
about the fact that their hair's blown out and they've got wrinkles and jowls.
So every age group has certain blind spots.
So now that I've gotten that over the way, let's talk about a big problem with a lot of young people
in the workplace.
Again, we talk to the very beginning of this course about the difference between private life, social
life and business life.
I know a lot of people.
I have young nieces and nephews where if I were to call them, it would be considered just a ridiculous,
absurd breach of etiquette.
Almost obnoxious.
If I were to leave a voicemail message beyond the pale, it will not be listened to and it will not
be returned.
And we get along perfectly fine.
We have a fine relationship.
It's just that's not how people of a certain generation eighteen, nineteen, twenty like to communicate
as they're of course they're exceptions.
And of course I'm making some generalizations here, but I'm just trying to be helpful.
There are certain people of certain generations where you just don't answer the phone.
It's just not something you do.
You see someone called and that's kind of a reminder to send them a text or you're going to bump into
them later, but you just don't answer the call.
Well, if you do that in business, you may be fine.
If absolutely every single person you deal with, every investor, every client, every customer is
your age group, too.
But how often does that really happen?
If you have clients, customers, colleagues, investors, other people calling, you pick up the phone,
answer it.
If you're in a critically important meeting, obviously don't, but if you're not doing something wildly
important that takes 100 percent of your attention, answer the phone.
People hate it when they can never get a hold of account representative or a marketing director that's
supposed to be in charge of their campaign.
They hate it.
They absolutely can't stand it if they're, let's say, over 40 or a certain age or younger people may
think, no problem, I'll send a text.
You have to realize everyone is different.
And if you're dealing with a customer client prospect, they expect you to bend to them.
If they're the ones writing a check, if they're the ones paying you in the form of being a customer,
a client or a boss, they expect you to bend to them.
They don't really care the way you want to communicate.
Sorry if that sounds cynical.
I just think that's human nature.
And we have to reflect that.
It's selfish for you to expect people to bend to your needs again if it's your company and you want
to run it the way you want to and you don't really care if you alienate people, then by all means don't
change.
But the first thing I really want to stress is you've got to answer the phone.
That leads us to the next topic, voicemail.
And there are generational issues here, too, but there are people who are guilty of all ages on bad
voicemail etiquette that in the next lecture.

--- Best Voicemail Messages for Success ---

When you're leaving a voicemail, it's critically important you do the following things, for starters,
state your name, your organization and the purpose of your call.
Speak a little bit slower than normal and articulate, not in a big, big, phony way, but articulate
a little more clearly than usual.
Give your phone number once and then give it a second time, even a little bit slower.
If you do that, you'll come across professional.
You'll make it easy for people to get back to you.
And the person you're calling, you may think knows you by heart, but they may know 10 other people
with your name.
So unless you have a really distinctive name, state your full name.
I mean, your first or your last name, at least you don't have to state your middle name, but state
your first and last name, the organization make it clear for them.
And if it's any kind of a call where you're not certain the person is going to want to call you back
right away, perhaps a prospect dangol something interesting.
I don't mean cheesy or value.
Call me if you want to get rich in the next twenty four hours.
I'm not suggesting you do anything overtly manipulative and cheesy and filled with hokum, but if you
can give them a taste of what you're calling about and why it might benefit them to call you back,
you'll increase the odds that they call you back.
A lot of people, they get a voicemail, they hang up.
Thank you.
Do not do that again.
Some of you are watching this and saying, my gosh, T.J. is a really old grumpy man.
I'm just trying to help you make more money and succeed in business.
I understand there are a lot of you under, I'll say, about the age of thirty nine where you never,
ever, ever, ever, ever leave a voicemail with friends and family.
Fine.
I'm not trying to change you, but if you're calling a customer, a client, a prospect, do not call
and then leave a voicemail.
It's highly irritating to a lot of people.
They can't stand it.
They're thinking about is this a telemarketer I'm wasting my time or is this something important?
Do I need to call back?
Oh, why do I do?
It creates all this anxiety.
So if you're going to call someone, leave a message.
That's what the technology's there.
There is literally nothing bad that can happen to you.
If you leave a voicemail after you've called someone and it goes to voicemail, it just makes life easier
for everyone.
You don't have to do this constant game of phone tag.
People trying to figure out why do we even start trying to contact each other?
It'll all be there in your initial voicemail message.
So please, I'm begging you, call get the voicemail.
Leave a message.
You may think you're calling an office phone, but the office phone has been forwarded to someone cell
phone.
And if they just see a couple of missed messages, it's annoying.
And they're going to wonder why was this important?
Is this crisis what's really happening?
Why keep them in doubt?
It's not necessary to do that at all.
So please leave the voicemail message.
It's simple.
Easy technology has been around a long time.
You cannot go wrong by doing that.

--- Take 1, Take 2, Take 3 Until You Get It Right ---

Final important voice mail tip.
Many voicemail systems allow you to listen to it and redo it if you're not happy.
Very few people ever follow up on that, but do it now.
You don't want to spend 10 hours listening and redoing a simple message to your boss every day, eat
up too much time.
But if it is someone who doesn't know you well, there's not a strong pre-existing relationship.
A client prospect may be a brand new client.
And you're not sure.
Maybe you had a bunch of ads and hit the button that allows you to listen to the message and then hit
the buttons as if you're not happy.
Hit this button and rerecord it, keep recording it and listening to it until you're comfortable with
it.
This alone should take some of the stress off.
A lot of times people get nervous and that's when the IBMs come out.
If you know in advance it is voice mail, then it takes all the pressure off.
You can just read to it until you're happy with it.
Also, I should have mentioned this earlier, but it's critical.
So often these days we're just assuming it's going to be voice mail.
We can't actually get a human being that we're often shocked to have an actual human being pick up.
That's the best of all possible worlds.
Don't say, oh, I was hoping to get your voice mail, use the opportunity, be ready for the opportunity
to say exactly what you wanted to say.
Don't make them hang up.
See, you leave a voicemail that's awkward and frankly weird.
Don't do that.
OK, here's your homework.
I need you to leave a voicemail on someone's phone and then call them up.
Ask them to tell you what they think of your voicemail, get some feedback, get a critique from someone
else, ideally in your place of business, of what they think of the message you leave on your voicemail.
Please do that now.

--- Never Be Busy for Clients and Bosses Again ---

Another small issue, I don't encounter it very often, but it does come up call someone, you get a
busy signal.
Who in the world still has a busy signal now, I do realize it costs sometimes a dollar or two more
on an average cell phone plan to have it go right to voicemail.
Spend the money.
Look, if you're poor and it's your own personal phone for your personal time, fine, you have to have
a phone.
But we're talking about here what you're doing for business.
And in this day and age, if a client, a prospect, a customer's calling you and they get a busy signal,
it sounds like you're out of business or you're a restaurant, that somebody started it in nineteen
fifty five and they're just there in the kitchen all the time.
They haven't figured anything out.
So get rid of the busy signal.
No one who calls you for business should ever have their time wasted by it.
And a.

--- Making Your Phone Disappear At the Perfect Moments ---

I haven't talked to you about one of the most powerful ways you can ever use your phone in business.
One of the most powerful ways you can cement your reputation with your boss clients, customers away.
This phone can enhance your credibility dramatically.
What's that secret?
The off switch, what do I mean by that?
Well, if you're in a meeting, if you're in a face to face meeting with a client prospect customer,
an important colleague, turn your phone off.
It's insanely annoying to people.
If they're talking to you and your phone, hang out.
Are going got to take this.
And they don't know what it is.
For all they know, you're just placing a bet with your bookie or something.
So my recommendation, if you want to really send a signal to a client customer prospect that, hey,
you are important, your time is important, your business is important, my relationship to you and
your organization is important.
Turn your phone.
I don't mean just on vibrate, because if it's vibrating and lights are flashing but not ringing, it's
human nature.
You're going to look.
They're going to look.
And there's a part of you that's going to think, is there a chance this is more important?
Probably isn't.
But it's going to take you away and it's going to send a signal to the person you're meeting with in
person that they are not important.
Well, guess what?
Nobody likes to be told they're not important and they might not be that important, but you don't have
to rub it in their face.
So know how to turn your phone off.
I would recommend you not put on so many people go into meetings these days and their cell phone is
their.
And worse is when they start playing with it, that's the absolute worst we've all been bored at meetings
or conferences.
It's one thing if you're at a convention, there's a big keynote speaker and you're in the dark and
you're on the 18th row and the speakers are not that interesting.
Well, sure, you check email, you check the sports scores.
But if you're in a meeting.
And someone's talking and you're on your phone.
It's frankly about the same as spitting, you might not feel that way, but just realize other people
do.
Do you like it when someone spits on you?
Do you like it when someone tells you your time, your ideas are completely worthless?
Now, we're not here to talk about family relations and whether teenagers or other family members are
on their cell phones at dinnertime.
That's a different course.
I'm not going there.
I'm talking about just in business situations, you really are not using the full potential, the power
of your cell phone unless you know exactly how to not only turn it off, put it away.
In fact, a really important meeting, don't even take it in with you.
I understand life is messy and complicated.
There are exceptions, but you need to plan for the exceptions and lay the groundwork.
So if you have a meeting with your boss, but the most important client your company is planning on
calling you, they said, I'll call you tomorrow morning.
We've got to resolve this one issue.
It only take two seconds.
Then I would say to my boss, I have this out just because Mr. Smithers is calling it.
He has one quick question and I promised I'd be available to him.
Your boss is going to realize that Smithers is the person paying everyone's bills because it's the most
important client.
Your boss isn't going to be offended.
And have it out and let the person know you could also have something that any fair minded person considers
a very important personal issue that should take precedent.
You could say, excuse me, everyone, I don't mean to be rude, but.
Close family members about to have a baby, I'm expecting a call from the hospital at any time, it's
the only call I would take.
That's why my phone is out.
No one's going to be offended by that.
Or if you have a family member who's in the hospital and said, look, I'm taking and have this out
just because I might be getting a call from the hospital, my father father's in intensive care.
No one's going to be offended.
But if you just have the phone out and you don't say why, and you're kind of yeah, it's going to cut
against your credibility.
You seem like someone who can't focus, who's scattered, who's just all over the place.
That is not a reputation that's going to enhance your career.
So my recommendation, any important meeting phone, not just on vibrate, but all preferably not visible.
Ideally, it's not even in the same room with you.

--- Better Than the Best Hollywood Goodbyes ---

We're quickly coming to the end of this course, and it's going to be time to say goodbye.
Speaking of which, have you noticed that more and more these days?
A lot of people just hang up the phone.
They don't say goodbye.
Why is that?
Well, it's because in the movies and TV shows, you don't see people say goodbye because it doesn't
advance the narrative.
It takes valuable screen time.
Film time doesn't add to the drama of a movie or the comedic effect of a sitcom.
So if you're making a movie, by all means, don't say good bye, but for everything else in your business
life, be polite, thank the person for their time.
And then when you say good bye or by either way is fine, but don't just hang out.
It's too abrupt.
Nobody's going to be offended by a quick, simple goodbye.

--- You Will always Deliver a Great Speech, The PowerPoint is Beside the Point ---

PowerPoint just saying that word sends chills up the spines of a lot of people in the business world
because they think, oh my gosh, it's going to be so boring.
I hate PowerPoint.
I understand that feeling.
But the problem isn't PowerPoint.
The problem is bad PowerPoint.
There's no such thing as PowerPoint is bad.
That's like saying television is bad.
Well, sure, there is a lot of bad TV and there's The Jerry Springer Show.
But you know what?
If you love World Cup soccer and you can't travel to that country to watch it, watching World Cup soccer
on a giant High-Definition TV is great.
So the problem isn't TV.
The problem is what you're watching.
Same thing with PowerPoint.
There's no such thing as PowerPoint being awful.
A particular PowerPoint presentation might be awful because the tools were not used effectively.
Back to the analogy of a television, you can have the world's greatest TV, but if it's hung upside
down or if it's not plugged in, it's not going to be a very satisfying experience.
Or if you have it only on a channel of public access and it's playing the lunch menus for the schools
next week, it's not going to be great TV.
Again, the problem isn't TV, it's what is on it and how it's being used.
Same is true with PowerPoint.
You can get a fantastic PowerPoint presentation and you can give a fantastic PowerPoint presentation
every time, but you also can give an awful presentation using PowerPoint.
This course is going to teach you how to do a great PowerPoint presentation.
More important, it's going to teach you how to give a great presentation, because rule number one
in this class is there really is no such thing as a PowerPoint presentation.
Now, hear me out before you hit, cancel and ask for your money back.
What I mean by that is from the audience's perspective, they are never sitting in their seats looking
at you saying, wow, I sure am glad this person's giving me a PowerPoint presentation today or a technical
presentation or a financial presentation or a formal presentation.
That's not how audiences think from an audience standpoint.
None of those things really exist.
The only thing from an audience's perspective that exists when it comes to speeches is there are two
kinds.
It's either good because it's interesting, relevant, useful, I'll pay attention or it's bad, it's
boring.
Let me pretend to pay attention and really let me check my email.
That's it.
There's only two types of presentations in the world.
So the first thing you've got to figure out when you're going to use PowerPoint is not how to give a
great PowerPoint presentation or how to even give a PowerPoint presentation.
Your first challenge is how do you get an interesting, relevant, memorable presentation?
With every presentation you give, there's really four things you're trying to accomplish.
The first is you need to know how to look comfortable, confident, relaxed, because if you look scared,
nobody's going to focus on your slides or your message or anything else.
Now, the challenge for many people is when they're just speaking informally or with no PowerPoint,
they're gesturing.
They have good eye contact.
They come across well, the second they have that PowerPoint, that's sort of awkward and, you know,
half looking at the slides behind them and the remote control and this and that or reading a script.
So sometimes the PowerPoint actually brings people down and makes them worse on the comfort level.
The next challenge in any presentation, can people understand you shouldn't be that hard.
But if you speak too quickly or you're too nervous and you're racing or too soft in the way you speak,
no one can understand you.
The third goal of every single presentation is can people remember your messages?
Now, this is the hard part for most executives, whether it's in business, government, the nonprofit
world, the hard part it any speech is getting your audience to remember your messages with or without
PowerPoint.
And if you're going to use PowerPoint, does it mean your messages are going to be more memorable?
It could be more memorable.
If you use PowerPoint slides effectively, you could actually make it less memorable if you just have
a whole bunch of words and a whole bunch of text up there.
The fourth goal in any PowerPoint presentation is getting people to take the actions you want.
You want them to approve your budget to.
Make a purchase to sign a contract to invest money in, you never lose sight of the fact that when you
present in the business world, you're doing so because you want your audience to take a particular
action with or without PowerPoint.
So let's not lose sight of those four main goals in every presentation.
Now, let's hop in specifically to how PowerPoint can help you do this.

--- It is Your Presentation, Not a PowerPoint Presentation ---

The first thing to remember when you're giving a PowerPoint presentation is to remember this is your
presentation and your audience's presentation.
It's not the PowerPoint presentation.
Again, the sooner you can get away from thinking of this as a PowerPoint presentation, the better.
Yes, you're going to use PowerPoint.
But you know what?
I'm using electricity today in my presentation.
It's not an electricity presentation.
I have a video camera that I'm using today, but it's not a video camera presentation.
These are simply tools.
So, so much of what makes someone a great PowerPoint presenter is understanding that fundamental relationship.
This is your presentation.
It's your ideas.
You're going to make these ideas come alive.
And yes, you will have PowerPoint slides that will augment your message and make your messages more
understandable to your audience.
But you're in charge, not the PowerPoint.
Too many people have that backwards.
They think of themselves as sort of the butler, the assistant, the gofer to the slides.
So they sort of are standing off the corner like they're the little Wizard of Oz hiding behind the curtains,
meekly just turning the pages.
That's not the most effective way to use PowerPoint.
It's still your presentation.
In fact, this is how I want you to start every single so-called PowerPoint presentation you give.
I want you to stand up or sit down if you're sitting.
I want you to start your presentation and I want you to talk for the first two minutes without a single
slide up.
You don't need to put your name.
You don't need to put the title of the presentation that's in the agenda or you've been introduced that
way.
Here's why I want you to do that.
I want you to train your audience into respecting you, into seeing that you are the expert.
You're not just some low level lackey sent here to read a bunch of stuff that a corporate marketing
department wrote six months ago.
You are establishing your authority, your legitimacy when you can simply look at people and talk to
them and give them some ideas that are useful and interesting.
Now, you may still have one hundred and twenty slides.
Don't take this as some indication that I'm a. slide or a. PowerPoint.
I'm not.
But I want to establish right from the beginning your authority.
If you're not seen as the authority in this presentation, why did people gather in the room?
You could have just emailed them text.
So that's the first rule.
You're starting a PowerPoint presentation, start without any slides up or start with it blacked out.
And that way people can see that you're the expert and you are the authority.

--- A Guaranteed 2-Part Test for Your Slides ---

I'm going to give you a whole lot of tips in this class and homework assignments, but here's one I
want to throw out early in the game, because if you get this, it's going to solve almost all your
problems.
You need to apply a two prong test to every single slide you use in a PowerPoint presentation.
The first test is, does this make your audience understand the point you're trying to communicate more
effectively than you just saying it.
The second point is, does this slide make your audience remember a particular message better than you
just saying?
If you can't say yes to both of those concepts, throw the slide in the trash can.
It's very easy to test if things these things are true.
If you just ask test your whole presentation on a group of people may be colleagues from down the hall
or a different department.
When you're done, ask them what slides they remember.
Ask them what message points they remember.
If they don't remember the messages that are most important to you, your slide didn't work.
They don't remember literally what's on your slide and the message behind it.
It didn't work.
Throw it in the trash can.
If you just follow that one rule, you can eliminate almost all the problems that destroy PowerPoint
presentations and make them tedious bore.

--- How You Will Never Use Your PowerPoint Slides as a Teleprompter ---

I'm going to give you a whole lot of tips in this course on what effective PowerPoint is, how to use
it, what it should be.
But let's just take a time out a minute and really clarify what a PowerPoint presentation isn't.
It is the poor man's the poor woman's teleprompter.
If it's one thing I encounter all over the world, six continents I've worked in is that people absolutely
hate it.
When a speaker reads to them, admit it.
You hate it when a speaker reads to you from a PowerPoint slide because you can see the words up there,
they're reading it.
So if I'm reading a slide and you can read it, too, and I'm really saying is, hey, I think you're
so stupid, you don't know how to read, so I'm going to read it to you.
That's brutal, folks.
Everybody hates it.
And yet the very same people who tell me they hate it end up doing it.
Well, you have a teach and they have time to prepare.
And I couldn't memorize it.
And it's right there.
And I want to get every word just right.
So I'm going to read it.
Now, if you're thinking of reading your PowerPoint presentation, call in sick.
Just give us all spare us the misery, OK?
The PowerPoint slides are for your audience.
They are never for you.
If there's something you need to help you remember what to say next.
Use a good old fashioned piece of paper.
Use some notes.
That's what I use.
Nothing wrong with notes as long as you keep it to a single sheet of paper and large font so you don't
have to be doing all this stuff.
So remember, the PowerPoint slides are not for your notes.
Use good old fashioned piece of paper for your notes.
The PowerPoint slides are just for your audience.

--- Advanced PowerPoint and Visuals ---

So now you have stories for each one of your message points.
What else can you do to really increase the odds that your audience will remember your message?
Another tool is to use the visuals.
Now, if you have good stories, you're forcing people to visualize things when they hear you.
But if you actually give them something visuals to look at, then they don't have to do any creative
thinking.
They're just going to instantly see that.
Now, the most commonly used visual in presentations is the PowerPoint slide.
Now, I know some of you have instant reactions when you hear the phrase PowerPoint, because the PowerPoint
is awful, it's horrible, it's boring.
And yet we have to use PowerPoint in our company.
Here's the thing.
There's nothing inherently awful about PowerPoint.
Saying PowerPoint is awful is like saying all television is awful.
Well, sure, some TV is awful.
But if you love World Cup soccer and you can't afford to fly to games, watching World Cup soccer on
TV is great TV.
We all have certain things we like watching on TV.
So the problem is not powerful, it's how people use it.
The number one way most people use PowerPoint is just to throw lots and lots and lots of bullet points,
text their script.
They're thinking, wow, this is going to be easy.
I don't have to know what I'm saying.
I don't have to practice, rehearse, memorize.
I can just follow.
The PowerPoint problem, of course, is if you're reading the script, the audience can read it, too.
So why does anyone need you?
It's boring when you're reading a PowerPoint and you're destroying your eye contact because you can
no longer look at your audience members.
You're fixated on your slides in front of you or you're turning around in your back.
So that's the real problem.
Now, there are a lot of different theories out there on PowerPoint.
My theories are based on having tested them in the real world in front of live audiences, and you can
do the same thing.
I don't want you to take my word for anything to do with PowerPoint test, but here's the test.
Put up your slide, give your presentation.
When you're done, ask people what your slides were.
If they don't remember it, it didn't work.
It's horrible.
Take it, tear it up and throw it in the trash can.
If people did remember your slide and what was on it and what the message is, it did work.
That means you passed.
Keep the slide.
It's effective.
It really comes down to that.
If people remember your slides and the message is from it, it works.
Now, here's the rule of thumb that I follow and that I get my clients to follow who really want to
be effective speakers.
If you're using PowerPoint, don't use text.
I know.
You could tell me a little, T.J., that's crazy talk.
In our corporate culture, we have five bullet points and we have eight words per bullet point.
And that's the way it is.
It's that it's done that way a lot of places doesn't mean it's effective.
The most effective way to use PowerPoint is to put one image per slide and to have that just convey
one idea way.
This is not a PowerPoint presentation.
This is just something to make it look a little fancier.
This is just a TV screen with a video loop going behind it.
I'm not trying to get you to focus on any one thing.
It's just something to create a little atmosphere.
When you're using PowerPoint, you shouldn't be throwing up lots and lots of pictures.
My recommendation, one picture, not four different pictures that convey the point, just one picture
per slide.
That's the most effective way to use PowerPoint.
Someone should hear you talk about the concept, see the image up on the slide.
It instantly make the connection of what your point is, drives it home.
Now they can understand it better and remember it better.
The rule of thumb for any slide is, does it make your audience understand the idea more than you simply
saying it?
And does it make your audience remember the message more than you just saying it?
If you can't say yes to both questions, it's not a good slot.
Now, what I recommend for most of my clients and what I do myself is when I'm creating a PowerPoint
presentation I used to PowerPoint one is the traditional lots of bullet points, lots of text, lots
of words.
Email it to people in advance.
It is a handout posted on a Web site, but do not project it when you were standing up speaking in front
of people.
The second PowerPoint is just for you to show when you're standing in front of people and you have something
to project on a big screen that should consist of images.
What image slide?
One idea per slide, not text.
I understand if that's not the way it's done in your company.
I understand if you haven't even seen it done that.
What I'm telling you, as an expert who's worked with ten thousand clients around the country, around
the world from six different continents, this is what actually works.
But I don't want you to just blindly follow what I say.
I do want you to do one thing I ask for, and that is test.
You're giving a PowerPoint presentation to 40 colleagues or 40 new business prospects on Thursday.
Find three colleagues lunchtime Tuesday, maybe offer to buy a sandwich.
Give them your presentation when you're done.
Ask them every slide they remember, ask them every message they remember any slide they remember.
You now have empirical evidence.
It works.
Keep it.
Good job.
But any slide, they don't remember exactly what it was, exactly what the message was, exactly what
was on that slide.
If they can't remember your slide, you now have empirical evidence that that slide was garbage.
Throw it away or keep it as the handout.
Keep it as something that you're emailing to people in advance or handing out afterwards.
I do not recommend that you give somebody the full printout of your PowerPoint and put it down in front
of them right before you speak, because most people can read much faster than people can talk.
You can talk 140 to 160 words per minute.
People can read sometimes six, seven, eight hundred, nine hundred words per minute.
So if someone's interested in your topic and you give them the whole deck and it has lots and lots and
lots of text, it's more efficient and more rational for them to be doing this and ignoring you.
Why would you want to encourage people to ignore you?
Makes absolutely no sense.
That's one of the huge problems of PowerPoint, is you're asking your audience to multitask.
Hey, audience member, listen to me.
No, ignore me.
Look at this handout.
No, ignore that and look at what's here.
Up on this slide, you're asking people to multitask.
All the clinical research on multitasking, human being simply aren't good at it.
If you doubt me, look at the highways and look at all the people basically killing themselves because
they can't resist driving and texting at the same time.
Human beings are not good at multitasking.
All the research shows that if you give one person one task, let them finish it, give them another
task, let them finish it, give them a third task, let them finish it versus giving the three tasks
to one person and say do it all at once.
The person who is giving it one at a time will finish all three tasks sooner than the multitasker with
fewer errors.
And I believe in taking that approach when it comes to audiences in PowerPoint slides.
If you're speaking don't have a slide up.
If you have a slide up, don't talk.
Let people look at the slide.
If you're giving somebody a handout, give it to them, let them read it, wait till their head comes
up and they're looking at you again before you start talking.
Great speakers are keenly aware at all times of what their audiences are doing and what they're looking
at.
So if you want more tips on PowerPoint, there's a chapter in both of the books that are attached in
this course below.
It'll give you even more examples and more studies.
But again, the basic rule of thumb is just tested on audiences.
It's really not that complicated, folks.
And here is the number one tip I can tell you is audiences don't remember bullet points in text.
You could say it has to be done that way, you can say these experts are saying, well, three bullet
points and eight words test, I might deceive you, other presentation experts might deceive you, but
your audience can't deceive you.
If they don't remember it, they can't really lie to you and tell you they do remember it.
And here's what the message they're not going to be able to do that.
So the ultimate arbiter is not me.
It's not what other presentation experts say, and it's not even what you like to do or what's convenient
for you.
The ultimate is what does your audience remember?
So keep that in mind when it comes to PowerPoint.
Also, keep in mind, PowerPoint is only one visual tool.
There's nothing wrong with props.
So, for example, when I want to convey the importance of video recording yourself, I don't just say
video, record yourself out, reach into my pocket, pull out my cell phone and I'll say it's simple.
All you have to do is talk to your own cell phone.
So nothing wrong with a simple prop like that.
Additionally, I mean, look at someone like Steve Jobs.
He had all the technology in the world at his disposal.
Now his company doesn't use PowerPoint.
They have their version of it called keynote.
He could obviously use that.
But when he wanted to unveil his newest, thinnest laptop, he didn't just put up a slide that says
thinnest and point two inches.
He didn't put up facts like that.
He said, how thin is this new laptop?
He paused.
He had someone walk out on stage, hand him an envelope.
He said, it's this thin the envelope, and he pulled out the laptop.
Here it is many, many years later.
And people all over the world remember that it just drove home this image and this message of, wow,
this laptop is really thin and light.
So just because you can use PowerPoint, just because it's easy for you doesn't mean you should overlook
other basic tools, props, real world things, things that are tangible because that's what helps the
memory process.
So that's your lesson.
That's your homework lesson right now.
Come up with a visual for each and every one of your message points.
It could be a PowerPoint slide.
It could be an actual prop.
But you need a visual for every single slide that your homework.
Do it now.

--- Final Thoughts on PowerPoint ---

Thanks for joining me on this course on how to deliver a PowerPoint presentation.
I do wish you luck with all of your PowerPoint presentations that you give throughout life.
But really what I wish you luck in is giving great presentations every time you speak and to use every
tool imaginable to help your audience.
If that's a prop, great.
If it's a PowerPoint slide, that's great, too.
But first and foremost is you have to be a great communicator.
You have to have a good focus of your ideas.
You need good stories and examples and occasionally visuals to make your ideas come alive.
And if you have a whole bunch of text and bullet points, that's fine to give it out to people afterwards
or in advance.
But that's what I'm doing for you right now.
In the bonus section, you'll see not one, but two of my public speaking books with even more tips
on PowerPoint.
Thanks again and good luck with all your presentations in life.

--- You Already Know How to Tell Stories ---

Human beings are funny if you ask people, what are you looking for, a speaker?
I've seen it on surveys countless times.
They'll say, we want somebody who comes in here and gives us the meat, gives us the substance, cuts
out all the fluff, gets to the point, doesn't bore us with a bunch of old war stories.
But I actually test audiences all over the world after they hear speakers.
And I always ask them, what do you remember?
And by and large, audiences in every culture remember two things.
They remember the passion of a speaker and they remember the stories.
Stories are absolutely the single best way to get your audience to remember anything.
Before there was the Internet and YouTube and video, before writing, before even the printing press,
there was the spoken word.
People in caves tell stories.
That's how human beings are programmed to share information and to remember information.
So if you want to be a great communicator, it's absolutely essential you tell stories.
Now, the stories have to be relevant.
They have to make a point.
This course is not how to go out on the lecture circuit and position yourself as Bill Cosby or a humorist
or Garrison Keillor.
It's not about that.
It's about how to communicate issues in your business, your campaign, your non-profit, your government
entity, how to really communicate these ideas to people in a way that they can remember it and how
to tell it with stories.
There is a process.
I'm going to teach you how.
So let's hop right in.

--- Stories Are the Most Important Part of Great Speeches ---

So what's the biggest difference between great speakers, truly fabulous communicators versus average
and mediocre speakers?
The difference is not the eye contact or the gestures or even the humor, the biggest difference is
that great speakers consistently illustrate every single key point with a story, not necessarily a
funny story or dramatic story, but they do it with a story.
Human beings are programmed to listen, understand, visualize stories.
Before there was text, before there is chipping away at stones and cables.
People told stories it's still the most compelling way to get people to a pay attention, be, understand
and see.
Remember now average speakers below average speakers.
Oh yeah.
Yeah, T.J., you know, I love stories that are great with motivational speakers, but, you know,
when I'm a tech guy, I can't do that.
I'm a finance got boloney.
It doesn't matter what industry you're in, it doesn't matter your position.
Great communicators consistently tell stories.
Warren Buffett does it.
Steve Jobs did it.
Ronald Reagan did it.
Bill Clinton does it.
So if you want to be a truly great communicator, you have to tell stories now.
You don't have to tell award winning stories that are going to get turned into movies.
All you have to do is have a few simple elements.
I'm going to walk you through these elements in the next videos on this playlist, so pay close attention.
But the first thing you've got to do is get over this emotional hurdle where a lot of people tell themselves,
oh, I can't tell stories.
I don't know any stories.
Well, if you've ever had a single conversation with one person about a real problem and how it was
resolved, you have a story.
That's all it is.
People ask me all the time, T.J., can I make up stories?
You could, but that's really hard.
I don't want you to work harder.
I want you to think smarter.
The best stories for your presentations come from your own real life experiences, conversations you've
had with clients, customers, colleagues.
That's where you should draw upon for your story database.
Not from a book, not from a movie, not from you having a creative writing inspiration.
You need to draw upon your own real life experiences.
I'm going to tell you more details of how to tell stories in the following videos in this sequence.

--- How to Make Your Stories About Something Important ---

When you're telling a story to the audience, you're not telling a story just to be a storyteller,
you're doing it because there's a message there.
Ultimately, as speakers, presenters, communicators, we're there to communicate messages.
So the story isn't driving this.
Your message is a story is simply a vehicle for making the message come alive to make it more memorable.
So realized that it's message first.
In an ideal world, maybe we wouldn't have to tell stories.
We could just lay out all the facts.
But people don't remember just the facts.
They remember the stories and therefore they often remember the message behind the story.
But remember, when you're telling a story, it's the message first.
That's what is driving this engine, not the desire for you to become a big storyteller.

--- Here Is How You Establish the Setting for Your Story? ---

When you're telling a story, it's crucially important for you to describe the setting now, the setting
could be as mundane as I'm on the second floor of my office in Huntington, New York, and it's a cloudy
day.
There's nothing particularly interesting about that.
But when I said that you have a certain image come to mind, you perhaps have never been to Huntington,
New York, at an office building that I haven't been to hunting in an office building.
But the point is, it creates a picture for you.
The human memory is much more of a visual processor than than a word processor where image processors,
not word processors.
So when you take the time to physically describe a setting, whether you're in a desert island with
a typhoon coming on or just sitting in your house at seven a.m. on a Saturday morning in your favorite
easy chair, paint the picture with words of the setting.
Now, it's not that important that people remember all that, but what it does is it starts to get your
audience to run a little movie camera and their brain and their visualizing what you're saying.
That's the beauty of describing the setting when you're telling a story.

--- Share Your Emotions When telling Your Stories ---

When you are telling a story in your presentation is critical that you share your emotional state.
How did you feel?
How did the person you're talking to feel?
Were you frustrated?
Were you angry?
Were you elated?
What was the emotional component?
Describe that.
Now, part of it needs to come out in your tone of voice, your facial expressions.
But don't be afraid to tell people I was scared and let people get a sense of exactly what you were
feeling.
Human beings are emotional creatures, like it or not.
And in my survey of clients all over the world, the thing they do remember the most from the best speakers,
the stories and the emotion, you put the two together and it is quite powerful.
So that's why it's a problem when people say, oh, I need to be professional now I'm giving this professional
speech.
And there's a point.
Here's a point.
Well, if one of your points is profits are down 17 percent, don't just quickly go from there to the
next point.
If you have to tell a story about a client who's very upset about your new product change, exactly
why they're upset, exactly why they're not going to be a client anymore, share that story because
that may be helpful to your board of directors and figuring out maybe we should bring that that service
or that product back again because our clients are missing it more than we thought.
You must describe the emotional component.
Otherwise, your speech is going to be too consistent.
It's going to be too bland.
It's too boring.
Now, I'm not suggesting you yell and scream the whole time in your presentation or in your story,
but you do need to describe the high moments and the low moments in your story to make it more interesting
and more memorable.

--- Your Speaking Stories Must Contain Dialogue ---

When you're telling a story, it's crucial that you relive actual conversations with real people, that
you share the dialogue.
The problem most people have is they become this boring.
NARRATOR Looking down and the customer explained to me he was dissatisfied with our level of service.
See how boring that sounds, how sort of clinical it sounds.
It's much more effective to say, well, Jane, Smadar said, T.J., I can't believe you haven't delivered
the product yet.
I'm going to demand a refund.
And I said, well, calm down, Jane.
That's dialogue.
When you're actually reliving a real conversation with a real person, what they said to you and what
you said back, we all do this all the time, talking to friends, family, one on one.
A client calls us on the phone at the office.
We all tell stories using dialogue.
The problem is when we're getting up to give a so-called formal speech, we tend to strip the dialogue
out of everything and we boil it down to its bland, boring essence.
Don't do it.
The dialogue is what makes it interesting.
Captivating gives us your audience a sense of being there, the flavor of it, and that's why it's crucial.
So you must have dialogue when telling your story.
And no, you don't have to make it up.
Just relive actual conversations you had.

--- What Characters and Conflicts are in Your Story? ---

When you're telling a story in a presentation or speech, you have to introduce characters and describe
what the problem is, what's the conflict now?
Unless you sit in your office all day long and the phone doesn't ring once and you just get one email
at the end of the day with your boss, say, hope you had a good day.
See you tomorrow.
All of us experience conflicts from time to time.
We all have problems.
So when you're telling a story, all you're doing is recounting the problem.
Now, don't say it's with a customer.
That's an abstraction.
Don't say it's with the Smith Company.
Say it's with Jim Smithers, the vice president of sales at the Smith Company.
Explain exactly who the problem is and explain what the problem is.
He's he's saying, T.J., we got a big problem.
This delivery isn't here.
We've already prepaid.
We demand a refund.
That's describing the problem in detail with the characters.
So don't be abstract.
Don't say they don't say customers paint a picture with someone specific, a real person.
Now, you can change the name if you need to or change the last name.
I'm not asking you to violate anyone's confidentiality if it's a client, but you need to paint a picture
with a real person and describe what the real problem or conflict is in your story.

--- Storytelling Conflict ---

Now, another word for a problem in a story is the conflict.
Think of every great movie you've ever seen, every action movie, every drama.
It's never just everyone happy sitting around laughing.
There's always some conflict.
What is the conflict?
We all have conflicts in our life.
It's highly unlikely that you just sit around all day long and get emails and calls from people saying
hope everything's going well.
Enjoy your day.
Now, conflict doesn't have to be as dramatic as someone pulling a gun on you.
But when you're making your point, talk about what the conflict was and how you overcame it.
That's a critical part to a story.
Very, very essential element.
So make sure you have some conflict, even if it's a minor tension, even if it's just about making
you feel uncomfortable about something in your story.

--- Your Story Must have a Resolution ---

When telling a story, you must have a resolution.
How did things end up?
What's the point of it?
Again, you may have made the point at the beginning of the story.
Now you've told it.
How did things end up in such a way that fleshes out your keyboard?
Don't leave people hanging.
Don't let them wondering.
You're guessing what happens.
Because if they're wondering about you off in the jungle here, now, you're on to some new point of
finance.
They're not with you.
So tie your story together and make sure people understand there was a beginning, there was a middle
and there's an ending.
Here's how it ended and why we should care now.

--- Don't Tell Stories, Instead Re-Live Stories ---

The whole key to telling stories effectively when you're giving a speech or presentation is that you're
not actually telling stories, you're simply reliving an actual experience you had.
You're reliving a conversation you had.
You can see it if a client or customer was angry with you, you're envisioning them yelling at you or
yelling at you over the phone.
You're not making up dialogue.
You're simply recounting an actual conversation.
Here's the real secret.
A lot of people don't understand about great speakers.
Great speakers are often lazy.
They're not out writing and rewriting and rewriting interesting stories till 2:00 in the morning.
They're simply reliving actual experiences they had and using them.
When there is a story where there's a message there that's relevant, get message is what drives everything.
The stories are the ways of amplifying the message and getting people to remember it.
So don't try to create or think of new stories from scratch.
Simply relive, recount real experiences you have.
That's what will be powerful for your audience.

--- Feedback from Peers ---

So now you should have a video of yourself telling this story and you love it the next step, take that
video and e-mail it to friends, family members, colleagues, associates, people you respect and who
will give you honest feedback.
You can email it to them.
You can upload it to you to put on a private setting so only they can see it.
You can send it by Dropbox, but send it to them, ask for their feedback, ask them what message they
take away from the story, and because that's ultimately what we're trying to do.
And what are they like or not like?
What suggestions do they have on how to improve this story?
Listen to all the feedback.
Don't automatically change something just because one person says it, but see if there is a consensus
among the group, then try to incorporate those changes to make your story even better.

--- Share on Social Media ---

You've gotten feedback from peers, that's great, you've now refined it even more, you've created
another video.
Here's what I want you to do to really take it up a notch even more.
I want you to post this video on your own YouTube channel.
If you don't have one, create one.
Now, it only takes seconds.
It costs nothing.
And then I want you to post that video on your Facebook page, LinkedIn, Twitter, your blog, if you
have one posted everywhere and ask people to give you feedback, put yourself out there if it's a good
story.
And it's interesting and it has important point, people will let you know if it really doesn't do much
of anything and there are no comments or the comments are what is this then?
You know, you've got to refine it.
But this is a way to further refine, further get feedback to get even more comfortable with it and
to get better at this whole process of storytelling and to get comfortable with the idea that you,
in fact, are a good storyteller.
So post that video on YouTube, spread it on social media.
Now.

--- Feedback from Live Audiences ---

So you've got a good story, ideally, you have several stories, you shared it with the world, you're
ready to start speaking.
So now any time you have an opportunity to speak in front of people, whether it's two people, twenty
two hundred or two thousand, you have a story and you have a system for creating a story.
So here's how to get even better after every single speech or presentation you give.
If you're talking to more than 10 people, typically someone will come up to you and say, -- good
job, did a good speech or Salli, good presentation.
Now, what most people do in that situation is they just say, thanks a lot.
Appreciate it.
You just threw a valuable, valuable opportunity to learn to get market research.
Here is the way to learn from every speech, say, to the person, Hey, thanks so much.
Do you mind telling me what do you remember from the presentation?
What stands out?
How would you talk about this to someone who wasn't here?
How would you summarize it?
Any story stand out and then just listen, because it may be your good at all.
Not you, of course.
But in some situations you can ask that question.
The person says, well, you know, everything was great.
You were very professional.
Well done.
But they can't tell you specific messages, specific stories.
That means you failed as a speaker.
You want them to throw back in your face.
Oh, yeah.
The story when you told about them and they're throwing it back in your face.
So if you're getting feedback from multiple sources, you know, your story works.
If they're all talking about the same story now, it may be you have five stories in your presentation,
but everyone is giving you feedback on one.
Well, that's a good indication that you should perhaps make that story, the lead story, expand it,
because it simply resonates more.
That could become your signature story.
The other thing that's quite helpful is when you're giving a presentation after your prepared remarks,
quite often there's a time for question and answer.
Now, I've seen this countless times where someone gave a presentation that was straightforward, almost
a data dump, boring, but then when they're asked questions, they come alive and they have an interesting,
compelling story, case study to answer question.
And that's what people remember.
So what you may find is that people are giving you feedback.
They remember the story you gave as an answer to a question in the Q&amp;A session.
Great.
But next time, don't wait for someone to ask that question.
Instead, tell the story that you did in the Q&amp;A session and put that into your prepared remarks.
And the final day related to this, of course, is videotape.
Every single presentation you give or at least audio recorded so that you can listen to yourself, tell
stories, figure out what worked better this time.
Great stand up comics do this all the time.
Listen to your stories, watch your stories as you're giving them to audiences and you'll get better
and better.

--- Conclusion to Storytelling ---

Congratulations if you have followed all the steps in this course so far.
You're now a storyteller and you should be a good storyteller and a confident storyteller.
And because of that, you're going to have more and more opportunities to speak.
And when you do speak, people will listen to you and they will remember you.
They'll remember your stories.
Therefore, they will remember your messages.
And there's a much greater likelihood that you'll accomplish what you're trying to do when you speak.
So we've covered a lot of ground in this course, but it really all boils down to focus on one idea,
one message you're trying to convey.
And then just think about an actual conversation you had with someone, talk about who that person is,
what the problem was, what that person said to you, what you said back, how you felt about it, how
it was resolved.
And that's a story.
It's so simple.
And yet people think of it as a rare gift.
Well, it is rare to be an interesting speaker who uses stories.
Well, but it's now a gift that you possess.
Good luck.

--- Let's Start Saving Time Right Away! ---

So let's define the problem, you're in a business, an organization, a government, a nonprofit,
and all of a sudden there's something on the calendar, an opportunity to give a speech, a presentation.
It's perceived to be an important audience.
Now, what do you do?
Here's the following scenario I see with corporations, government entities all over the world I work
with.
And that is it's a sign to somebody to start the ball rolling and someone starts writing and gathering
data and gathering data.
And next thing you know, it sort of starts into a PowerPoint slide and then word is put out, hey,
we're doing this speech.
Who has ideas?
More and more information is put in.
More and more facts are gathered.
Next thing you know, you've got maybe 30, 40, 50 page PowerPoint slide and that becomes the speech,
the presentation.
So everyone is now focused on this and sometimes people can refine it and cut it back, change it,
take things that other people want to put it in email goes back and forth.
Sometimes there are meetings, but before you know it, it's become a gigantic time set.
Now, you may be creating your own presentation.
You may have staff to do it regardless.
It's taking a lot of time, man, hours, woman, hours of people in your organization.
And you're either spending the time yourself or you're having to manage or oversee other people do it.
And what's happening is this mentality of the speech is the PowerPoint document.
Now, I'm not a..
PowerPoint find to use PowerPoint, but the whole focus is about gathering data, messages, graphs,
charts, complexity for the PowerPoint deck and then working backwards from that.
I'm here to say that is a backward approach, because if all the focus is on a big document with lots
of bullet points, lots of text, lots of data, it creates its own work.
It creates more and more work.
It's a virus that mutates and gets out of control.
Now, those of you who work for yourself, you might not know what I'm talking about.
But for those of you who work in big organizations, you've seen it happen.
You know that it happens.
And next thing you know, speeches go through one, two, three, five, ten drafts.
Whether you're using PowerPoint or just a word document, it's going through drafts and drafts and dress.
Because the whole mindset of people in your organization is how do I appear to be smart and helpful?
And I can't just read the speech and send back an email and says, hey, looks good, so I've got to
be smart and tell them this has to go out or this wording needs to be a little bit different or you
need to add this part.
Everyone wants to have their finger in this.
Everyone wants to be another chef in the kitchen.
And unfortunately, it's more, more, more and more.
And then what happens?
Ninety nine percent of the time, it's eight, nine, ten o'clock the night before the speech.
And the whole focus is on this document.
Change this, change this font color, change this image.
Let's add more text here.
Next thing you know, it might even be midnight.
Has anyone actually rehearsed the speech yet?
No, it's just grown to more and more data.
So the person giving the speech doesn't really know how long it's going to be, hasn't practiced it
yet.
So you end up with something that's just a big data dump and the person giving the speech will deliver
it.
If it's you, I'm sure you'll be perfectly competent.
You're not necessarily going to share.
I mean, we have other courses for that if you're worried about being nervous, but you're sort of competently
going through the whole presentation that collectively has spent dozens, if not hundreds of hours of
your organization's time.
But then afterwards, what do people remember?
What does the audience actually remember?
It's a good chance.
Not that much.
There has to be a better way than this whole big, long process sort of going through the data and not
even wondering if the audience is picking up on it.
That's what this course is going to teach you how to do.
Let's go right to the first lesson now.

--- Save Time by Focusing On Your Exact Goal ---

If I say to you, get in the car, drive, let's just go for a trip, you might ask, well, where are
we going?
Are we going to drive across the country to California?
We're going to drive around the block.
Fair questions, because if you don't know where you're going, if you don't have a destination in mind,
you're going to go around in circles, get lost, just Meandarra.
You're not going to accomplish much.
Well, the same thing happens with speeches, with presentations.
Far too often people just start off at a speech with a vague, fuzzy notion of a topic and they think,
well, how can I gather everything I know about that topic?
And that is the root cause of all of your problems all of the time suck when it comes to your speech,
because if you just go off with a general, vague notion of telling people everything about that subject
or everything your company has done in the last six months or everything your government organization
does, you're just going to dig more and more and more data.
And it's just you're going to be lost.
So, so much of what I'm going to stress here in this course is all hinging around this one thing right
now.
You've got to make a decision right at the beginning of this speech preparation.
Are you going to do it the way you've always done it before, which is just well, let's start with
the research and gather stuff.
Or are you going to start with the goal in mind?
If you know that today you're in New York City and you want to drive to Los Angeles and get there the
quickest way possible, driving the fewest miles possible on the best roads, you would spend some time
planning, you would perhaps get a good GPS and you would go there.
You wouldn't just say, let me just drive around the block and let me see where the sun is.
And, oh, this looks like a nice route.
You'd never get there.
You would take you months to get there instead of a few days.
It's exactly the same thing with a speech.
So here's what I want you to do for every speech you ever give in the future before you start doing
anything, before you even pull up a PowerPoint slides software I want you to write down can be on a
single sheet of paper to be on your computer screen first thing.
What is it you want this audience to do after hearing your speech?
One sentence.
What do you want them to do?
If you're in business, then you probably want them to become a client to request a meeting with you
to authorize a budget to approve findings you've already done and research, what is it you want them
to do?
If it's a government agency and you're trying to encourage people to eat more vegetables, what's the
specific action?
Now, keep in mind, most of the time when people get presentations, the audience doesn't do anything
except A, fall asleep or B, check their email.
So if you actually get some members of the audience to do anything, you're going to be wildly successful
compared to most speakers.
If you get most of the people in the audience to do something, you are going to be one of the most
successful speakers that audience has seen in a long time.
So that's the starting point.
Do that before you do anything else.
Do that before you even get to a computer.
Just write out one sentence.
What is it you want this audience to do after hearing your presentation?

--- Faster Ways to Come Up with the Perfect Messages ---

The next step for you is to brainstorm on the ideas, the messages you want to communicate in this presentation.
Ideally, the messages you think would actually motivate your audience to do what you want them to do.
Remember your goal that we worked on before?
Now, here's the area where I want to save you time.
We're just looking for the raw idea.
We're not looking for whole paragraphs, coherent arguments, complex charts.
We're not looking for any of that yet.
We're just trying to isolate the actual idea that you want to communicate in this speech, this presentation.
So what I'd urge you to do is to just brainstorm, write them out, bullet point it out, even number
it.
You can do it on an old fashioned notepad.
If you're working with a team, if you have an organization, speech, writing team, I would recommend
that someone type it up, project it on an LCD projector so everyone can see it.
Don't worry about dumb ideas.
Put anything out there.
We're just on a brainstorming mode.
I'd like you to limit this to half an hour.
But if it's a wildly complex speech, incredibly important, the whole world is watching.
OK, spend an hour.
But again, here's the thing.
This is not the time for discussion.
This is not the time to debate the merits of your messages.
This is the time to just throw things down.
Or you can look at one idea at a time.
Now, this is typically what people do by coming up with drafts for the PowerPoint only they feel the
need to have seventy two set points and eight other themes that relate to that.
I just want to isolate the main messages that you're trying to convey in this speech.
Now you can have as many as you want for right now.
You can have one, two, three pages.
You can have fifty, sixty one hundred messages.
Put as many down as you can.
Give yourself a strict time limit.
If it's just you give yourself a time limit.
If you're working with the whole team, it's important to give yourself a time limit.
Otherwise you'll start this big general discussion, complete, utter waste of time that doesn't help
you figure out what to focus on in your speech.
It just waste time.
So if you're doing this with a group, you've got to have some discipline.
You want someone to throw out an idea to talk for ten seconds or less and someone typing it or writing
it up, that's all you want to do.
If some of them are duplicative, fun, you hear somebody make a really stupid idea, just grin and
bear it because it's not going in the final speech.
It's just being tossed out there.
So that's your assignment right now.
Brainstorm every single message you could possibly try to communicate in this speech, your presentation.

--- Tips on Final Preparation of Your 5 Message ---

So now you've done your brainstorming.
You've got a good list, 50, 70, maybe 100 message points.
That's great.
The CEO guarantees in life, but I will guarantee this for you or your money back for this course.
If you try to communicate 50 or 60 or 100 messages in a speech outside of a classroom setting where
people are taking notes and being tested on it, you'll fail and you will fail miserably.
Now, how do I know that?
I've been a presentation coach for 30 years.
I've worked with CEOs, executives in government, the private sector, all over the world from six
continents, more than ten thousand executives for 30 years.
And I can tell you, it's very hard to get people to remember stuff messages from your speech.
In fact, I ask everyone I train to think of the best speaker they've seen in the last year and then
tell me how many messages they remember from this great speaker.
Sometimes it's nothing.
Sometimes it's only one message.
Occasionally two, sometimes three, every once in a while, four messages.
Once every six months, someone will actually remember five, literally five messages from the best
speaker they've ever heard, had never heard anyone remember more than five message points.
So that's what I want you to keep in mind when you're coming up with your speech.
My firm firm recommendation, narrow your main messages to five if you actually communicate five member.
It's communication, not if it comes out of your mouth, but if it goes in their ears and they remember
it.
If you actually communicate five message points, you're going to be the best speaker, the best presenter
your audience has ever heard in most instances.
So now what I've got to have you do is go back to your list of message points.
Look at each one, debate them.
If you're a part of a group, part of a team, if it's just you debate it with yourself, put these
messages in priority now, eliminate anything that isn't the top five.
You've got to narrow this down to now.
Please note we're into the speech preparation now.
We spent a little time.
Not once have I asked you to get a PowerPoint deck out.
Not once have I asked you to start creating complex charts and rows and rows and rows of numbers.
You may have to do that later, but do not do that yet.
We've got to get the basic structure of this presentation before we have all the other stuff.
Think of it as a house.
If someone gave you the most expensive marble in the world, the best lumber, beautiful piece of property,
a million dollars worth of materials, fine marble, and you just started building the house and you
had no architectural plan, no engineering plan, no blueprints.
What would that house look like?
And board sticking out here, marble?
It would look like garbage.
We know that with a house, most people would never in a million years dream of just starting to build
a house with all sorts of expensive materials without a specific plan.
And yet people routinely start their speeches without a plan.
So that's why I say don't even start with any bullet points.
DAX charts graphs yet let's just really narrow down our messages.
So that's your homework right now.
I need just five messages that you want to communicate in this speech.
Each one should be ten words or less.
Do it now.

--- Your Examples Will Resonate ---

You have five clear messages, not five big themes and twenty seven set points for each message, but
five main ideas, messages you want to communicate in this speech, this presentation.
Now, it's still not time to whip out that PowerPoint.
And believe me, I'll let you do that at some point, just not yet.
Now, you've got to brainstorm on examples, case studies, ideally stories for each message point.
Now, if you work with a speech writing team, a communications team, you need to sit around.
Could be at lunch time, could be after work with a beer.
Whatever your organization does, you need to actually sit around and have a conversation.
This simply doesn't work very well defined by people just typing.
And you can have a conference call even if you're not in the same room.
Now, if you're doing this speech for yourself, you need to actively think about when did I talk to
a client about this actual problem?
What's a customer that experienced this?
Wasn't there an issue with one of our employees in the San Diego plant about this very issue last week?
Your number one problem as a speaker is not that you're going to shake and sweat, it's going to come
down and people are going to point and laugh.
Your number one problem as a speaker is that no one's going to remember anything you say.
So that's why this step is so crucial, simply stating a message that you can tell somebody the message
you're going to tell them, tell them and tell them you're telling them it's not going to be remembered
if you don't flesh it out with examples, case studies, ideally a story that really fleshes it out.
And at the bonus section, I'll give you more information on how to really build out these stories.
But this is critical.
So that's what you need to do.
If you're working with a group, talk this out and then come up with a shorthand way of reminding you
what to say.
I would not recommend writing this out word for word.
Once you write a speech out, word for word, then it's this whole document and everyone is changing
every comma and period forever.
And that's a massive time way.
So don't put anything down on paper yet or a computer screen.
We just want two, three words, bullet points to remind you of an example, a case study.
So that's what you need.
A good example, case study story for each one of your message points.

--- Use This Cheat Sheet! Time Management Public Speaking ---

So where are we so far, if you follow the lessons in order, you've got an overall goal, what you
want the audience to do after hearing you speak, you've come up with your top five ideas, messages
that you really want this audience to hear you say, understand and remember, because it's likely to
drive them to the action you want.
And you've got a good case study, an example, ideally a story for each one of your message points.
Now we've come to a fork in the road.
You've got to make a big decision.
If you go one way, it's going to take you hour after hour after hour and be a big time suck and not
result in anything better.
Or you can go the easy way.
Now, what most people do is they go the hard way, which is now let's write the speech and let's sit
down and type away till we have 20 pages of text.
Now, folks, there are times when that is necessary.
If you're the president of a major country, if you are the chairman of the Federal Reserve, if you
are a secretary of state or minister of foreign affairs and you're speaking to the UN General Assembly,
and it's going to be written down and transcribed into numerous languages all over the world.
Sure, there are times when you do have to get a speech, right, word for word all the way through.
But for ninety nine point nine percent of business people and people in government, that does not apply.
And once you commit a speech to writing it out, it just brings you down and it takes a tremendous amount
of time.
What I'm recommending you do is the easy way, and that is simply come up with an outline, have a sheet
of paper that has your five message points and that has a few words to remind you of your story, your
example, your case study.
Now, I have worked in countless corporations, government agencies all over the world, where it's
just a habit to write out the speech because the speechwriter says, well, that's what the boss wants.
And the boss says, well, that's what the speechwriters give me.
And everyone is doing this dance and no one ever stop to think.
Does this really help anything?
Does the person making the speech really want this?
Countless times I've been in that situation, I ask people, does this really help?
And typically the speaker says, well, I don't really like reading a speech.
I'm much better off the cuff.
And the speechwriters viewpoint is I don't really like writing speeches because it's tedious, it's
painful.
We go through 20 drafts and the person and say what?
I asked what I wrote anyway.
So why go through the whole dance is a waste of time.
Now, I'm not suggesting someone just set up an ad lib a speech and blurt out stupid things, whatever
pops in their head.
I'm suggesting a very thoughtful, methodical, planned presentation because again, we've already spent
if you've done what I've asked a couple of hours in this preparation, really figuring out what our
goal is, what are our messages, what are our stories or examples are case studies.
So I'm not suggesting that this be ad lib in the sense that just know Tourette's syndrome words are
flying from your mouth.
But I'm not suggesting that the whole thing be written out so that someone is either even tempted to
read or attempted to memorize or sort of half glance down and looking at it the whole time, because
I simply don't have any evidence that that helps the communication process.
I do have a lot of evidence that it impedes the communication process because it makes it so boring
and deadly dull, because it's a huge data dump.
Plus, you destroy the person's ability, the speaker's ability to maintain eye contact and seem like
a human being.
Plus, you waste dozens and dozens of hours, if not more.
So this is another big decision you have to make.
Are you going to write the whole speech out, word for word?
Are you going to go with an outline?
I would recommend a single page outline that has your message points, that has your examples, a few
words to remind you of the case studies and any other important stories.
And then if you have a few big numbers and you want to get the numbers just right, we'll put that down.
It should all fit on a single page.
So please come up with your single page outline.
Now, if you want to write your whole speech, word for word for it, I can't help you.
Fact, you should probably just quit this course now because you're going to be up till 2:00 am writing
and rewriting the speech.

--- Create PowerPoint Quickly and Effectively ---

Now we're making progress, you know, the goal you're trying to accomplish in your speech, you got
your five messages, you've got examples, case studies, stories for each one, and you have a cheat
sheet on a single sheet of paper now and only now is when we're going to talk about PowerPoint.
Now, folks, you may have surmised that I'm not a big fan of PowerPoint.
That's actually not true.
I'm just not a big fan of awful boring PowerPoint that puts the audience to sleep and sucks dozens,
if not hundreds of hours out of an organization putting it together.
But I'm perfectly happy with good PowerPoint if it can be used effectively to help the audience and
if it's the wisest use of time for staff and speaker alike.
So here's what I'd like you to do.
And it's a mindset change.
You are the speaker, what you say, how you say it is.
The presentation presentation is not the PowerPoint.
The second you tell yourself the PowerPoint deck is the presentation game over, you've lost, you were
going to fail miserably.
In my professional opinion, you have to have the attitude that you're the expert, you're the one who
knows this.
It's your presentation.
It's your words, your ideas, your enthusiasm, your passion coming out.
And yes, you may have some slides to amplify those ideas.
That has to be the proper mentality when it comes to PowerPoint.
So here's what I want you to do.
Go back to your outline and then look at your first message and ask yourself, how can you somehow visually
make this idea come alive in a way that's more understandable than just words coming out of your mouth
and more memorable than just words coming out of your mouth and come up with an image, whatever it
is.
So, for example, if you are trying to talk about how Alzheimer's affects a very high percentage of
Americans over the age of eighty five, regardless of social position or economic status, you could
put a whole bunch of statistics, but you could also just put a picture of Ronald Reagan, somebody
famous.
Everybody knows and those who remember his life knows that he did, in fact, have Alzheimer's when
he was in the last two years of his life.
So that picture will drive that point home and much more powerful way than text words, bullet point.
So that's what I want you to do, is to come up with a picture, an image if you need to have a graph,
the graph needs to be simplified so that people can look at it instantly.
Get the idea you can't be a graph with seven or eight or twelve different lines, color coded, showing
the movements of every single week for the last four quarters.
People can't look at that while you're speaking.
So I need you to come up with an image for each one of your message points that makes the your idea
more understandable, more memorable if you can't think of any image picture, simple graph to do that,
that's OK.
Don't use anything.
Just talk to your audience then.
So that's what I want for your slides, that you're actually going to project that your homework do
it right now.
So ideally you've got five points come up with five images that you are going to project in your PowerPoint
or keynote show.

--- Master the Quickest, Easiest Way to Eliminate Verbal Tics ---

That's it, if you follow the tips I've suggested in this course, you are going to spend less time
on your presentations and get far better results because you're going to deliver a more interesting,
memorable speech at a fraction of the time in preparation.
So, again, in summary, you've got to start off by really figuring out what's your goal?
What are you trying to accomplish with his speech?
Then come up with a five messages that are most likely to get people to do what you want, that are
important to you, interesting to you and to the audience.
Then you got to come up with an example, a case study, a story for each message point, put it down
on a single sheet of paper.
If you're going to use PowerPoint, fine.
Use an image, not words that you're projecting.
If you've got a whole lot of other text five put in a document, put in a PowerPoint, make it one hundred
pages.
I don't care.
Don't project it during your speech.
Email it to people in advance handed out afterwards.
Finally practice your speech on video until you like it.
If you do that, you're going to drastically shorten the amount of time that you and your staff and
your colleagues spend futzing with scripts and power points.
And you're in a far better results.
Good luck in all your presentations.
I'm T.J. Walker.
Thanks for joining me.

--- Learn the Secret to Communicating Effectively Using a Teleprompter ---

Using a teleprompter can be an effective way to communicate a very specific speech in a somewhat controlled
way so that you don't want to forget what to say and you can focus on really delivering the message
and connecting with your audience.
Now, it's especially helpful if you're on national TV and it's a live political convention and the
whole world is watching.
If you're a world leader, a president, a chairman of the Federal Reserve, a lot of people out there,
if they're giving speeches, people are analyzing every single word so a teleprompter can help you get
it just right now.
Other people may want to use a teleprompter because they're scared or they're nervous or they're just
afraid they're going to forget stuff or they're at a national convention and everyone else is using
a teleprompter.
So why not?
There's all sorts of reasons for why people want to use a teleprompter.
Some of them good, some of them not so good will go into the reasons later.
But for right now, let's hop right into how to be good at it.
That's what the course is about.
I'm going to teach you how to read the teleprompter in a way so that people won't notice you're reading
and they won't focus on the fact that you're reading a teleprompter.
Instead, focus on your message, focus on your words, because that's the real goal of the teleprompter.
It's simply a communication tool so that you can get your ideas from in your head, out into the ears
of the audience so they can focus on what you're saying.
So let's hop right in.

--- Video Benchmark ---

Learning how to use a teleprompter effectively is something you learn by doing.
You can't simply read a book and unfortunately, you can't just watch a video of me giving you tips.
You're going to have to record yourself.
So the first thing I need you to do is to find some teleprompter and record yourself.
Now, there are iPhone apps.
There's apps and websites you can put on your computer.
You can have big fancy teleprompters.
You can have newscaster teleprompters.
There are the executive style ones that you've seen all presidents since Dwight D. Eisenhower use.
Find a teleprompter.
Don't spend a lot of time on this, but find some teleprompter and create a speech.
I don't care what it's about.
Let's just make it 60 seconds long.
It doesn't have to be long, but I need you to give the speech using a teleprompter, and I need you
to record yourself.
And then here's the part you're not going to like.
I need you to actually watch.
It doesn't do any good to talk out loud or practice cinema or you're going to have to record your speech
that you've done using a teleprompter and you're going to have to watch it.
I need you to make a list of things you like, things you don't like.
Now, we're not worried about the substance of your speech yet, although ultimately you better have
some good substance or it won't matter how well you read the teleprompter.
But for now, let's simply focus on what you like about your delivery.
I want you to come up with a list of stuff you like and the list of stuff you don't like.
Do that right now.
And folks, if you're not willing to do this, you're wasting your time here.
I'll give you your money back.
You might as well go to some other course or look at some entertainment online.
This is something you're going to have to do by speaking and recording yourself numerous times.
Let's hop right in.

--- Learn How to Make Self-Corrections So That You Always Look Great ---

So how did you do what did you think now if you weren't completely impressed with how you came across?
You're in good company.
I could tell you everybody hates looking at themselves on video, listening to their own voice, especially
if they're using a teleprompter for the first time.
So if you didn't love everything about how you came across, you're in excellent company.
Now, I want you to look at that list of things you liked, the list of things you don't like, and
I want you to do it again.
We're only talking about 60 seconds, not a three hour speech, not even a 20 minute speech.
But I want you to record yourself using a teleprompter, and I want you to try to do more of the stuff
you like and focus on just one thing you didn't like.
Let's try to remove that.
I want to see if you can self correct, because I'm happy to give you advice right here and any way
I can.
But the biggest source of insight into how you speak ultimately will come from you if you're willing
to take the time to practice your speeches using a teleprompter on video.
Most people aren't willing to do that.
Most people are lazy and fact.
That's often what drives people to use a teleprompter.
They think, well, I don't want to learn my speech or get familiar with it or get comfortable with
it.
I know I'll just throw it up on a teleprompter.
I won't have to remember anything and I can just read now.
That's the worst attitude you could possibly have.
If you really want to be a great communicator, what you will find is that it's going to take you more
time to use the teleprompter than to just speak from notes.
Now, I'm not trying to talk you out of using a teleprompter, but if your goal for doing it is timesaving.
You are barking up the wrong tree if you really want to be effective, you need to practice and rehearse
on video for any important speech.
So what I want you to do now, do the very same speech again, recorded again.
Grade yourself again.
And let's see if you can make any small improvements or big improvements, do it right now.

--- Master the 4 Key Elements That will Make Your Teleprompter Use Seem Effortless ---

So how'd you do?
Did you make any improvement?
I didn't ask if you improved absolutely everything and you went from awful to perfect.
I just want to know, did you make any improvement?
Because if you did, you now have a system for getting your speech better and better and better to the
point where it's great.
You simply keep practicing on video, removing the things you don't like, adding the things you like
until you're happy with it.
Now, let's really get to the meat of the situation here.
Let me cut through a lot of clutter and tell you exactly what you need to know and how to avoid the
traps that really mess up most people when they're using a teleprompter.
Here's how most people look and sound when they're using a teleprompter.
Hello, my name is T.J. Walker.
I am happy to be here today.
I am president of Media Training Worldwide and I help people communicate effectively.
What's wrong with that now?
It's easy to say.
I look and sound like a robot wouldn't.
But what does that really mean?
Here's what's happening when most people read a teleprompter and what I just did, once you're fixated
on words and going through words, you rob your voice of it's conversation ality.
Now, what does that mean?
What it really means is you're speaking to consistently at the same speed.
Your volume is too consistent and you're not pausing naturally.
It really comes down to those three problems, plus not moving your head.
That's when your head is moving and your face is not showing any expression.
You look like you are being held by terrorist and being forced to read something against your will.
So it really comes down to those four things speaking speed to a consistent speaking volume to consistent
not pausing and phrasing your head.
And I bet if you go back and look at the video you just did, you'll see that you're guilty of one or
more of those crimes.
So if you want to come across as natural and relaxed with your teleprompter presentations, you're going
to have to very actively focus on solving all those problems.
And what that means is you're going to have to sometimes speak a little faster and sometimes a little
bit slower, sometimes louder to make a point.
And sometimes you get a whisper for the contrast because that's what people do in conversation.
And finally, you have to pause occasionally because that's what people do when they're just talking.
And of course, you've got to do it all by not looking frozen and stiff.
If you're fixated on the words, the easiest way to read is to have your head stiff.
You're going to have to very consciously move your head from left to right, up, down, back.
You've got to consciously move your head.
And by the way, you should be moving your hands and your body.
You shouldn't be like this looking scared or stiff or as if you were a prisoner somewhere.
So those are the big lessons.
I want you to video record yourself again.
This time I want you very consciously to sometimes speak a little louder, sometimes a little softer,
sometimes a little faster, and sometimes for emphasis a little slower.
And make sure you pause at the end of sentences, make sure it's a little longer at the end of paragraphs,
and finally, make sure your head is moving.
Nobody likes a stiff.
Look at that stiff.
What a bore.
People mean it literally.
Sometimes if you're not moving, that's what makes you look like a robot.
That's what makes you look scared.
So this isn't that complicated, folks.
Now, me saying it doesn't mean you're instantly going to do it all like that, but it does give you
a template of what you should try to do and how to avoid the most common problems.
And if you do all that, by the way, the see happen, if you're if nothing is moving but your eyes
and your head is not moving and your face is not moving and your body's not moving, then your eyes
become the only noticeable thing on screen.
And that's when the whole quick, dirty eye movement becomes obvious.
So if you do those handful of things I asked you to do, it solves all the other problems.
And it makes it seem as though you're just talking to someone.
And that's what people like people always ask me to do.
What's the best length of time for a speech?
And I said, well, you know, it depends if you're really.
Oring, 30 seconds is too long.
If you're incredibly interesting, you can be talking to someone on a road trip for three days and they'll
want to talk to you more as long as you're saying something interesting.
But when you listen to conversations between friends, family members, colleagues that are really dynamic
and where people don't want to stop, they're doing all of these thing and they're not reading a teleprompter.
But voices get louder.
Sometimes they get soft, they get faster, sometimes they slow down.
And, of course, people pause.
So the real key to using the teleprompter is not creating some new big skill set and learning all of
this new technology.
It's really about talking the way you did with friends with your five years old.
Now, the subject matter may be different, but it's about sounding like a real person and sounding
natural.
And that way it doesn't call attention to the fact that you're reading on a piece of glass in front
of people instead of actually talking to people.
So that's the goal.
So I want you to record your speech again.
And this time I want you to focus on those handful of things, change the speed, change the volume,
put in pauses and make sure your head moves.
Preferably your whole body doesn't have to be like this jumping up and down.
But I do recommend that not just your head moves, but you lean forward.
Certainly if you're speaking and standing, you can move a little, even if there's a lectern there
and you can gesture.
So let's practice that right now.

--- The Perfect Speaking Speed for You ---

So if you didn't see complete improvement in all four areas, that's OK.
That's why we're here in this course, we're here to practice.
Now, I want you to record yourself again, but this time we're going to focus on just one element at
a time.
Now, I want you to give your whole speech again, reading from the teleprompter.
But the only thing I want you to focus on is the speed.
I want you to occasionally speak a little faster when you're excited and occasionally slow down for
emphasis to provide contrast.
Member Natural human speech is full of ups and downs and fast and slows.
There's variety to it that sameness of somebody reading a teleprompter and everything is at the same
speed.
That's what makes it awful to listen to.
So I want you to record yourself again, focus just on changing the speed of how you're having those
words come out of your mouth.
Video recorded.
Watch it, critique it and grade yourself just on that one category.
Do it now.

--- Volume ---

If you focused just on changing your speed, I bet you were able to do it, it's not that hard to do
any of this stuff if you focus on one thing at a time.
Now, I want you to focus on Polu.
I want you to very consciously try to change the volume of your speech, sometimes get a little bit
louder for emphasis, sometimes a little softer.
Don't worry about the speed now, although I think what you'll find is now that you practice changing
the speed and you're focusing on the volume, the two will go together and you'll create more variation
in your voice.
The speed and the volume will both be up and down and change.
There will be variety and that's what will make you more conversational, sound like a real person and
not sound like you're a robot.
Reading at the same volume.
So do it now.
Give your same speech again.
Again, we only need one minute recorded on video, but I want you very consciously trying to change
the volume in certain words.
And if you need to even make notes on your teleprompter script, that's OK.
Any way that works for you, all that matters are the results for your audience.
However it happens for you doesn't really matter as long as the change is seen by the audience.
So recording now and this time very consciously change the volume.

--- Head Movement ---

And now we have to add the final element, which is moving your head.
See what I did right there?
I had all the other three elements, but by freezing my head, by keeping it frozen and stiff, it still
looked weird.
It sounded weird.
So now I need you to do the whole speech again.
Don't think as much about the speed, the volume and the pausing, although it's nice to keep what you
have.
But this time I need you very consciously thinking about moving your head.
We all move our head when we talk.
So do it right now.
Record it, practice it consciously.
Move your head when you're speaking.

--- Pausing ---

This next homework assignment is really easy, I'm going to ask you to do is nothing, I'm going to
ask you to pause at some point in your presentation.
What is a pause in simply doing nothing?
It's shutting your mouth and doing nothing now.
So a lot of things you're going to be asked to do in life, in various courses and in real life and
in business, not that many of them involve just doing nothing.
And that's all I'm asking you to do.
So this is a pretty easy assignment.
Now I say it's easy when you're in front of people.
Most of us have some fear of public speaking.
And when we're in front of people that we almost feel naked and we want to sort of finish this up so
we can get out of here.
So what most people do is they start speaking as quickly as possible.
They don't have any pauses because they begin as soon as I finish, this is I can sit down and get out
of here.
No one will stare at me anymore.
So psychologically, to be difficult to pause can feel awkward.
You could feel like you're just are exposed.
But great speakers do it.
So I want you to give your whole speech again.
Again, just one minute.
But after a big thought, after the end of one paragraph, pause for five minutes, not even for five
seconds, but just a couple of seconds, even a second and a half is enough of a pause that it provides
contrast between the pausing, between words or sentences, which may only be half of a second or a
quarter of a second.
So let's do the whole presentation again.
This time I want you to consciously pause at least a couple of times in your one minute speech.
Do it, record it, watch it and determine if you, in fact, did add the pauses.

--- Putting All 4 Together ---

How did you do that last time?
Were you able to, in fact, move your head?
Now, it may be hard at first it may feel awkward, but guess what?
You've been moving your head when you talk since you're two years old.
So it's not that hard.
You just have to consciously think about it.
So we practice the four specific skills you really need in order to look relaxed and comfortable when
reading a teleprompter, changing your volume, changing your speed, pausing and moving your head.
We've done it separately.
Now let's do a take where you're really very consciously putting them all together.
So same speech.
We want to come up with new topics, new messages, new material.
Let's work from the same speech off the teleprompter video.
Record yourself and put it all together.
Now, let's really see that we can change the speed, the volume, occasionally pause and have that
head move in a way that looks natural.
Not, you know, we're not trying to be a machine here or look like the top of a water fountain or a
something or watering your lawn.
It needs to seem natural.
And that means it should be inconsistent.
It should move in conjunction with your words and your emphasis.
So let's put it all together now.
Record it, critique it.
We should be seeing the list go higher if things you like from how you're coming across the list of
things you don't like should be getting smaller now.
Let's do it now.

--- Use 2 Prompter Screens In a Way that Nobody Will Notice ---

A word about the executive teleprompter now, as I mentioned to you at the beginning, there's a lot
of different types of teleprompters.
It could be just an iPad next to your iPhone or an iPhone next to the camera.
There can be the traditional broadcasters through the lens teleprompter where you're able to look right
into the camera.
And there is what public speakers use, where it's on two sheets of glass, about five feet in front
of you on either side, basically a forty five degrees this way from dead center and forty five degrees
that way.
That's what the president of the United States uses.
I do want to give you a couple of tips on that one, because you've got two different teleprompter screens
in front of you.
And here's what some people do when they have that situation.
They're reading like this for a set amount of time, a couple of sentences for ten seconds.
And then they go like this and they're reading for a set amount of time, ten seconds.
And then they're like this.
And after a while, it kind of seems like they're at the US Open tennis tournament.
It's too consistent.
So what I would recommend is certainly you look at one for a while, maybe you make that longer 30 seconds
and then slowly think of the last sentence there.
Say that out loud here.
Now, you come over here for, say, 15 seconds, see what the last sentence is, say it out there,
then come back.
The whole key is variety.
You just don't want to seem like a clock or anything robotic.
So that's why I recommend if you're going to have the two different screens, don't just go back and
forth, because that's a sure sign, a dead giveaway that you're using a teleprompter and not that effectively.
Now, there are other teleprompters that are large and on the ground or even way up high in a stadium
or in an auditorium where it's right below the balcony.
You can see it.
The key, of course, is make sure you know where they are, make sure you can see it, and don't stare
at any one of them too long.
And don't be consistent with the way you go around and use them.
You've got to mix it up that way.
You'll just seem like you're speaking to people and that's what we want.

--- Full Speech Practice ---

Now it's time to put it all together, I want you to get a full speech now for you, that might be a
five minute speech.
It might be a 20 minute speech.
It might be an hour speech.
But whatever the speech is that you're most likely to give are close to what you're likely to give in
the near future.
Let's get the whole speech ready, loaded in the teleprompter, and let's get ready to give that speech
now.
This is where it gets personal.
You can decide how you want to mark up your speech.
Remember, the speech is for your eyes only even if you're using one of the executive teleprompters
like the president does where you have both sides, you can look at it.
Maybe someone behind you could see it.
Don't worry about them.
You're worried about the larger audience and perhaps the TV audience.
So don't worry about what it is.
Mark it up if you want to put in parentheses.
Long pause, do so.
If you want to put in parentheses louder, do that.
If you want to put in parentheses, whisper do that.
Just don't read it out loud.
So famous politicians have been caught doing that before.
Message I care.
One famous politician did that.
He wasn't supposed to say that it was in the notes in the teleprompter.
So give yourself some notes now.
Load up the speech.
Let's practice the whole speech.
Now, if your speech is 20 minutes and I'm saying practice it and rehearse it, there's 40 minutes right
there.
You've got to deliver the speech.
It's record.
You got to watch it.
There's another twenty minutes.
So add it up.
There's forty minutes.
So you say, well T.J., I don't have time, maybe enough time to give the speech.
If you want to save time, it may be easier just to use notes rather than reading.
Again, I will reiterate using a teleprompter is not about saving time unless you're the president of
the United States and you're giving ten speeches a day or you are a professional newscaster and you
have to anchor a show for three hours a day and you're reading it every day, then it does save time.
But for the rest of us, speaking about what we do on our business or politics or careers, you should
know this stuff, not memorize it, but you should know it.
The teleprompter, if you're going to use it, is to help things go even smoother, but it requires
more practice.
So let's practice your whole speech now.
Video, record it, watch it, figure out what you like and what you don't like.

--- Politician Role Models ---

It's time for you to find some role models.
What I'd like you to do is go to YouTube and type in the name of your favorite politician.
If you have one our world leader, I don't care about your politics.
I just want you to find someone who gave a huge speech.
And the reason I say politics is because presidential nominees of major parties use teleprompters at
their conventions.
And it's usually a speech that they have rehearsed and practiced because they realize more people are
going to watch that than any other speech in the campaign.
So they're typically giving it their best.
I want you to watch your favorite politician or at least someone you can stomach.
I want you to watch their speech.
And now that you kind of know some of the behind the scenes aspects of what it takes to speak on a teleprompter,
I want you to make notes of how they pause, how they change the speed, how they change their tone,
how their volume changes and how they're moving their face, their head, their body, their hands.
So find one or two of these.
Really pay attention, listen carefully, look carefully, and we'll give you a much better sense of
how other people do it well.

--- TV Role Models ---

Some of my students are skeptical when I tell them they have to move their head when they're speaking,
using a teleprompter, saying, well, T.J., that's not my style, I never do that.
First of all, you do when you're comfortable, when you're talking.
But here's what I want you to do.
I want you to watch five minutes or so of your favorite cable newscast and in fact, flick around to
several of them.
But here's the key I want you to watch without the volume on and look at the top of the show when the
news anchor of the talk show host is introducing segments that are typically speaking from a teleprompter.
You can also do this by looking at the broadcast news networks, ABC, NBC, CBS, and just watch at
what the news anchors do.
They're moving their head.
They're moving their face.
Their eyebrows are moving.
They're communicating a great deal when they are reading the news.
Now, newscasters tend to have a little stiffer style and they're tending not to use to use their hands
and they're sitting down.
But I do want you to focus on the head movement and the facial expression.
You'll see tremendous variety there.
And that can serve as a good role model for you.

--- Potential Disasters ---

There are a lot of different kinds of teleprompter's these days, some of them you can adjust with an
old fashioned knob yourself, some of them with a mouse, some of them with a foot pedal, and others
you have an actual teleprompter operator, someone else doing it for you.
There are pitfalls with all of these, and there are certain things you need to do to protect yourself.
And I want to go over some of those steps right now so that you're not left unguarded.
If you are going to have another teleprompter operator moving it, you've got to rehearse with that
person and you have to make sure that person is following you.
Otherwise, you get back to the same speech, the same tone.
The reason that people do this is they are afraid that the words are going to go off the screen and
they won't know what to say.
So you have to be in sync with your teleprompter operator.
If you pause, they better stop, because if they keep rolling and you're pausing, you're up a creek
without a paddle, you are in big, big trouble.
So you need to find somebody who's reliable, someone willing to practice with you, or you got to think
twice about even using a teleprompter.
The next thing you have to be prepared for is a teleprompter is used as a part of a computer, even
if it's an iPhone.
Guess what about computers?
They break, they have glitches, they malfunction.
They like electricity, they get bugs in them.
All of which to say is you still need to have your speech on paper, at least notes.
I prefer having notes consolidated on a single sheet.
But if you really want to get every single word just right, you better have it all on paper, because
paper doesn't require electricity.
Paper doesn't have glitches on it typically.
So it's a good fallback.
I hope you don't have to use it, but it's there if you need it.
There's all sorts of problems that can happen with computers.
Most famously, when Bill Clinton was president and giving his nineteen ninety five State of the Union,
what happened was it was uploaded into the teleprompter software as State of the Union.
When the person uploaded it, it said, Do you want to delete State of the Union now?
What do I want to do that I'm putting in it?
So person put no.
And there it was.
State of the Union is in the teleprompter.
He thought everything was fine.
President Clinton gets up to give his State of the Union.
He looks at it and he instantly realizes, oh, no, that's last year's State of the Union.
So he turns around.
The whole world is watching whispers to Vice President Gore and says, call Stephanopoulos and get the
correct speech.
We have last year's speech.
Now, Bill Clinton even then was an extraordinarily.
Experienced public speaker, a gifted public speaker, and has, according to many, a near photographic
memory, so he was able to give the first 10 minutes of his speech in a way that no one had any idea
there was a problem.
But you don't want to have to rely on that.
So assume nothing.
Practice.
Make sure you've got a safety habit on paper and do that and you will minimize your chances of disaster.

--- Reasons Not to Use a Teleprompter ---

There's a topic I wanted to address at the very beginning of this course, but I didn't want to turn
you off and I didn't want to scare you away.
But the topic is, what is your decision process for actually deciding to use a teleprompter?
Again, there are plenty of good reasons to use a teleprompter if you're a newscaster every day.
Well, you've got to use one.
There's no way you can get the names and the facts straight of brand new stories of news that just happened.
Yes.
If you're giving a political speech and millions and millions of people are watching you and you've
got exactly seven minutes and twenty eight seconds for your slot on prime time, that may be a good
reason, but many people use a teleprompter because they think it gives them greater control.
Not really, because if you do a bad job on the teleprompter, you're not controlling the outcome.
The outcome of any speech is not what comes out of your mouth.
It's what do people remember, what do they retain so they can act upon it.
So if you're reading a teleprompter in a wooden, stiff, phony way, the only outcome is people have
a negative impression of you and don't remember anything you said.
So that's an illusion to think that that's somehow safer, it's not safer, and it's not saving you
time.
Many people use the teleprompter because they think it will save the prep time, as we talked about
in the previous lecture.
It doesn't save time for most people.
Most of the time, they're far better off using a simple page of notes to speak for most business executives
and for that matter, most politicians.
The real danger of a speech is not that they got one word wrong, one comma wrong.
And suddenly there's tremendous criticism that does happen for presidents of countries or heads of of
federal banking systems that can happen.
But for most people, most of the time, the biggest problem in our speech is not that we got one word
wrong and there's a lot of criticism.
The biggest danger for most of us is we're so boring, nobody remembers anything we said.
So that's why I would urge you focus your time on making your speeches interesting and memorable.
And I've got other courses to deal with that.
That's not the point of this course, but that should be your focus, having an interesting speech and
delivering it in the best possible way.
Don't use a teleprompter because everyone else is don't use a teleprompter because there is some technician
who's sort of running the conference and says, well, everyone else is you have to be there.
The only reason to use a teleprompter is you've decided that will help you communicate most effectively
with your audience.
That's the only reason to use a teleprompter.
So, for example, I've been speaking to you for this entire course, and I'm not using a teleprompter
there plenty of times when I do use teleprompters.
But I didn't need one for this course because this is all material I've given hundreds of times to my
clients in real life.
So I know this.
So I didn't use a teleprompter.
So please give real thought to what is the best way for you to communicate with your audience.
And it may in fact be notes and not using a teleprompter, but make the judgment based on what will
help the audience, not what might save you time.

--- Secrets from Reagan ---

You heard me mention at the beginning the reason to use a teleprompter is not to save time, but to
really make sure everything goes right and you get the exact wording and phrasing the way you want it.
Now, people think of Ronald Reagan is one of the great communicators of all time.
He was called the great communicator.
Regardless of your politics, most fair minded people would say Ronald Reagan was a great speaker.
Now, many assume that was because he was an actor and had a lot of experience in front of cameras.
That's partially it.
But the real reason is he brought an actor's discipline of rehearsal to the public speaking process.
So when Reagan had a major speech like the State of the Union address, he would practice the speech
out loud for three hours a night, for a week.
Now, he wasn't doing that to memorize the speech.
He was using a teleprompter.
He was doing that to build a comfort with the words relationship with the words, to get his brain and
mouth and everything in sync used to having those words come out of his mouth in a set way.
After all that practice out loud, he would still spend an entire day practicing on video with the teleprompter,
again, not doing it to memorize, but doing it so he could get the pauses just right.
The emphasis just right head movements just right, so if Ronald Reagan could spend a whole day doing
videotape rehearsal for his teleprompter speeches, what's your excuse for not spending at least an
hour doing it?
There's always time for anything that's important.
If there's no time to practice your speech or teleprompter speech on video, maybe you shouldn't make
time to give the speech at all.
So please, please practice on video.
That's the real secret of the master communicators.

--- Final Thoughts on the Teleprompter ---

Thanks for joining me on this course on how to use a teleprompter.
I think if you follow the tips, tricks and exercises that I've assigned here, you now have a pretty
good sense of how to look your best, sound your best, and come across comfortable, confident and
relaxed if you're using a teleprompter and you're going to know how to use it so that you don't sound
like one of those robots that are instant turnoff to most audiences.
I hope all of your speeches and presentations in life are successful.
And if you use a teleprompter that you can use it for maximum effectiveness and still seem like you're
just having a conversation with the audience.
Good luck.

--- Presenting Your Message, And Getting Paid for It ---

Become a professional speaker.
Work from home, make twenty thousand dollars an hour.
It's easy money.
You'll get rich.
Hold on, that's the hype.
I'm going to teach you the reality.
Now, you can be a professional speaker and you can make money, but you need to go into this with your
eyes open.
I'm going to walk you through it.
I've worked with scores and scores, thousands of speaker's business leaders, politicians and professional
speakers, too.
And some of them make a lot of money.
Some of them make very little money.
One of my first years in the National Speaker's Association, a survey was done and the organization
found that the average member only made twenty eight thousand dollars a year.
And I'm not talking 50 years ago, this was around two thousand one.
Now, folks, you can make more money than that.
Flipping Burgers is an assistant manager at Burger King.
So the reason to try to be a professional speaker isn't because it's easy money that I can assure you
you can make money.
You do it the right way.
You can make a lot of money.
But here's the real reason.
In my view, the only reason to want to be a professional speaker, and that is you have a set body
of expertise that you want to share with the world in every way possible in your books, in your blog,
on TV interviews, radio interviews and, yes, in speeches to reach audiences.
That's the reason you've got real expertise and you're trying to change the world.
Now, you may be a political leader and want to change government policy.
You may be an energy efficiency expert and you want to reduce people's energy bills at home.
Your whole area of expertise may be just how to organize people's garages more so they don't go crazy
looking for junk in the garage.
There's a million different areas of expertise you have, but if you don't have a passion.
For some subject matter, it's going to be very, very hard for you to make it as professional speaker.
Now, let's define some terms.
There are some celebrity speakers, people like Oprah, already famous.
She's making a billion dollars a year with other stuff.
And yes, she can make a speech any time she wants and make two hundred thousand.
She's a professional speaker.
She's making a lot of money.
But that's not her primary business.
Same with Bill Clinton.
Bill Clinton is three hundred speeches a year, the vast majority for free.
But it does make a quarter million dollars a speech when he does speak to corporate audiences.
That sounds pretty professional to me.
So there's a category of professional speakers of people who are just wildly famous.
If you are someone who's won 10 NBA championships, well, you're going to be able to speak even if
you're not the greatest speaker, if you've been the president of a country or prime minister of a G7
country, yeah.
You'll be able to speak for a living and make a lot of money every time you speak.
Now, for the sake of definitions of this cause, I'm going to assume you are not a household name.
You are not already wildly famous.
So my advice is going to be for people who are trying to build a business, have some area of expertise,
some element of professionalism, and are trying to figure out how speaking can be a part of it.
That's what this course is about.
Let's hop in.

--- Here is How to Pick a Profitable Niche ---

So the title of this course is How to be a Professional Speaker, and this may confuse some of you and
you may want your money back right now.
And that's fine.
I'm happy to give it back to you.
I don't believe your goal should be to be a professional speaker.
What I believe is that your goal should be to have true deep expertise in something and to be able to
share it to the world.
It has many possible ways, as you can, through books, through blogs, through ideas, through radio
appearances, TV appearances, YouTube channels, and, yes, through speaking in front of live audiences.
Now, there was a time, way back when I'm talking in the 40s, 50s and 60s when there were people who
just were professional speakers because more and more associations were having conventions and they
didn't know what to do.
So this person gave a speech and some would say, hey, we need a speaker.
I saw Bill speak last week.
Let's get him.
And Bill Goh, a former mentor of mine, was one of the first professional speakers that made a very
nice living, really just delivering a keynote.
For the most part.
Those days are gone.
The idea that you could just sort of sit back, watch and Anthony Robbins video, go brown event, look
at a couple of other motivational speakers on YouTube and say, you know what, I can do that.
Let me put my own spin on it and announce I'm a speaker that cannot be done anymore.
Ladies and gentlemen, let me just tell you right now, you're wasting your time.
If you think you can just sort of watch, if you blend it together, have your own spin and come out,
it's much, much harder than that because there's so much competition.
You doubt me, go to Google and type in professional speaking or professional speakers or keynote speakers.
It'll break your Internet.
There'll be so many hundreds of millions of websites coming up.
There's tremendous competition.
You have to differentiate yourself.
So I think the first thing you have to really decide is not whether I want to be a professional speaker,
how to make myself a professional speaker.
The first thing you've really got to define is what is your core area of expertise?
What's the thing you know so much about that people want to hear you talk about it now.
I play tennis.
I play tennis my whole life.
I want a tournament or two in nineteen seventy seven.
I play tennis now.
I have a tennis court now.
I play a couple of times a week.
I like to talk about tennis, but you know what?
You'd have to be insane to pay me to lecture about tennis because my knowledge level is very, very
common.
It's low on a one to 10 scale with tennis radio.
Probably ought to.
I am a hack player.
I barely know who is in the top 10, so it would be virtually impossible for me to sell myself as a
speaker about tennis because my knowledge base is so low.
I haven't written about, I haven't studied, I haven't thought about it.
So it's not enough to have a mere passing of an interest in tennis.
I play with the guys every Monday night in the league, but that doesn't make me qualified to speak
about tennis.
So the first thing you've got to do is figure out what is the number one thing that you like, that
you care about, that you're interested in, that you could speak about.
But what would you be talking about if no one even paid you to?
Many people go into this idea of I want to be a professional speaker because they went to some positive
speaking rally or some Peter love thing, and it was speaker after speaker and it seemed glamorous.
And here these people selling their information products and they're all making fifty thousand dollars
a day.
And I want to be up on the stage.
I might not be a good singer to be a rock star.
I might not have enough talent to be on Broadway, but I could get up and talk and be in front of a
big stage full of people.
That's not the attitude to have.
You will never get there if that is your motivation.
So for starters, you got to figure out what is it that you're good at?
I would suggest actually getting a Venn diagram
and try to plot out, for example, everything
that you're good at.
So if here's a diagram of every single thing, a circle of old things you like, stuff you like to do,
here's a list of things that people already pay for.
So you may like to collect seashells, but there's not a huge demand for people who like to collect
seashells of getting paid for that.
You've got to look at the marketplace.
What does the public want, what corporations pay for and what is it you're good at.
So, for example, I love talking about politics.
I love getting my analysis on current affairs.
But guess what?
That's an interest of mine.
Aren't any corporations willing to pay for that?
Unless you're really, really famous and you worked at the White House, then maybe you can get a gig
at Fox or MSNBC or CNN.
Other than that, you can't get it.
Public is not paying for political analysis, then get it for free on every website, every blog and
on TV.
So that's an example of this being over here in this part of the van diagram.
Complete, utterly useless.
You have to find something that's in this intersection of all three circles.
So for me, I have had a lifelong interest in public speaking and in media and politics helping people
communicate effectively.
Well, is that a good topic?
Corporations hire people to do that all the time.
Corporate communications departments hire people to speak on that and to train on that.
Individuals buy books on that and hire trainers for that.
So that was my sweet spot, something I like to do, something I'm good at.
Corporations pay for it and individuals pay for it, too.
That's my sweet spot.
And that's ultimately a lot more important than having the best voice in the world or the best stage
presence.
Because you can have you can frankly teach a monkey to have good stage presence if they're just giving
the same old motivational spiel of have goals, focus on your goals and associate with people all really
succeed, you got to be able to differentiate yourself.
You're not going to get booked in.
You're not going to get paid.
So here's the first bit of homework for you.
If you could only talk about one thing and I'll give you ten words, but I would really prefer five
words or less.
What is that subject matter?
What is the topic?
It can't be.
I help people with sales, customer service, negotiation, speaking skills and blah, blah, blah,
blah.
You might be good at all those things, but there's no way you're going to be able to market yourself
to the world as good enough to speak on those topics.
You're far better off focusing on one thing, one thing only, then build out the others if you can
get.
There are exceptions to these rules.
Alan Weiss, you should read his book on billion dollar speaker.
He who knows what he does, but he speaks all the time and he says, don't position yourself I.
Think that works for Alan Weiss and it works for people who've been in the business for twenty five,
thirty five, 50 years.
I don't think it works for anyone today.
It's so hard to get any momentum to get yourself established and well known by anyone and to have a
following.
You're going to confuse the marketplace.
If you try to be good at five things or to speak on five things.
Pick one thing.
That's your homework right now.
In one sentence, ten words or less, preferably five.
Tell me, what is it you do to help people in the world?
Write that down now.

--- Be the King of all Media for Your Niche ---

Once you've found your niche, you have got to figure out how to create something interesting to add
to this niche.
I recommend that you create new content every single day.
Now, four years.
I did it seven days a week.
I at minimum create content five days a week.
Now you figure out what's best for you, but if you're only creating a new piece of content once a month,
it's just not going to add up to much.
Frankly, unless you're really doing something special, I would recommend that you write a blog post
every single day.
It may only be one idea.
In one paragraph, but write about what it is you do based on other readings, other research, thoughts,
reflections, your own original ideas, synthesizing, not stealing, but synthesizing what others are
doing so that you can be a guide to this particular subject matter doesn't matter if it's corporate
strategy, it doesn't matter if it's estate planning.
Whatever your subject is, there are other people writing about it, talking about it.
You need to be the person that people trust to synthesize what's going on and to say what's significant
and to deliver new insights.
So I would recommend that you write every single day on this subject matter, even if it's only one
paragraph.
Two of my first eight books were nothing but collections of blog posts.
The more you write, the more you write, the easier it gets.
The faster it gets, the more you are disciplined to always be looking out for ideas.
And that little light bulb is churning even at night.
If you know, you have to if you have to write content on your area of expertise, now you want to be
a professional speaker.
So I would recommend that you speak every day on your matter of interest to your subject matter now.
So how do you do that?
In the old days, you'd have to go through the phone book and call the Rotary Club.
Hey, do you need a speaker?
I'll speak for free.
And I'm not suggesting you don't occasionally speak someplace like that, but that's a tremendous amount
of work.
Just to find an audience of 20 people these days, you shouldn't have to work that hard, simply speak,
turn your video camera on and your webcam record yourself speaking.
Put it on YouTube.
If you don't have a YouTube channel now, what are you waiting for?
It is absolutely one of the best tools ever for professional speakers and aspiring professional speakers,
because here's a chance for you to speak every day to get feedback, to hone your skill, to get more
comfortable and to go deeper into your ideas.
Now, some of you might not like my style, might not even like me, but I doubt any of you think I'm
nervous now or uncomfortable.
And I could tell you if I were any more relaxed, I'd be asleep.
Right now, I'm comfortable because I've done 10000 videos on YouTube and I've done a hundred courses
online.
Plus I've given thousands of speeches and because I'm speaking every single day, I get comfortable
with it.
It gets easier, you get better at it.
So in a sense, you're far, far advantaged over people trying to enter the professional speak special.
The by the way, if you ever make a mistake and you're on the platform, just don't tell anyone, smile
and keep on going.
So you have a huge advantage over people who are trying to enter professional speaking.
Thirty years ago, they might only give one speech a month and that's begging, spending hours begging
for time.
To do that.
You can give a speech every single day.
Now, a typical day I speak to two thousand people every day.
Now, that's not a huge audience compared to Lady Gaga style audiences on YouTube and Justin Bieber.
But two thousand people a day.
Watch my videos on YouTube.
And until just a few years ago, that would have made me probably one of the top ten speakers in the
entire world, if not the number one speaker in the entire world.
If you compare that to speaking to live audiences.
So it's never been easier to find an audience to try out your ideas.
Now, it's every one of my videos.
Brilliant.
And have ten thousand views.
Now, do I sometimes have an idea that isn't perfect?
Sure.
To people criticize me sometimes in a mean, vicious way, saying you're old, you're bald, you're
ugly, you're obedient.
Yeah, but every so often someone gives me insightful criticism.
It's very helpful.
That makes me think.
That makes me grow.
That makes me get better.
And that's what you can get by putting yourself out there speaking.
Because if you're new to the professional speaking gig is believe me, it's not a simple matter of calling
up a speaker and say, hey, I'm ready.
Just start booking me at major conventions at ten thousand dollars a pop.
It's not going to work that way.
But you can book yourself today on YouTube and you can book yourself today on your own blog.
So that's what I recommend.
Do you do you need to become a content creation machine if you want to be a professional speaker?
You look at the best speakers of the world and quite often you look at Seth Godin, for example, huge
fortunes, public speaking, turns down most of his speaking request.
He could speak anywhere he wants, huge, huge speaking fees.
Well, he's also written a dozen books, bestsellers.
He has a blog every day that's read by millions starting to see the connection there.
Look at someone like Jeffrey Gitomer, wildly successful sales guru, speaks all over the world, hundreds
of speeches per year.
He's written a dozen books, virtually all of them New York Times best sellers.
He writes, every single day.
I've been in his office in studios.
He reads sales books every single day.
He writes every single day.
He creates videos, if not every day, very, very frequently.
And he give speeches all over the world constantly.
So if you want to be a speaker and really have long term success, you've got to pick the niches we've
talked about earlier.
And you've got to pick a niche that you care enough about, to write about daily, to speak about daily,
to analyze other news on that subject area and to be a true, true industry expert, as you've heard
me mention before, that the real success for people these days, it's not the people who just call
themselves I'm a professional speaker.
It's for people who have deep, deep, deep industry expertise.
You think of sales and a lot of people do think, Jeffrey Gettleman, he is a sales guru who's very,
very good at what he does and has a huge, huge following.
Who is the expert in your industry and how can you do better?
I'm not suggesting you copy that person, but you should certainly be aware of what they're doing,
where you disagree, how they communicate and how they create content.
So that's my challenge to you.
Now, I need you to come up with a plan, an actual editorial calendar of what you are going to create
if you are serious about being a professional speaker, then you need to be prepared to write every
single day on your blog, on a particular subject, and you need to be prepared to speak every single
day on your subject.
Now, folks, a lot of people say this.
I practice what I preach, especially with the speaking every day.
Go to my YouTube channel, YouTube dotcom slash TJ Walker, and you will find ten thousand videos.
Some of them don't have that many views, but you put it all up.
I have three and a half million plus.
That's more views than the National Speakers Association YouTube channel.
It's more than Toastmasters.
It's more than Anthony Robbins.
So folks, I'm practicing what I preach and I don't make a lot of money off my YouTube videos, but
I do get clients that way.
And I do get advertising revenue from the YouTube videos, too.
You can do that, too.
So in a sense, you can be a professional speaker tomorrow or even today.
Speak monetize the video and you'll make some money.
Now, unless you're doing something generating millions of views, it's not going to be a lot of money.
But when you look at what creating a YouTube video does, it helps you refine your expertise, improve
your speaking skills, and it markets you to the entire world in the second largest search engine in
the world.
And people can see you speak.
And instead of paying for this marketing, you get a few pennies occasionally, even a few dollars back.
To me, that's the greatest deal in the world.
So don't wait to be invited on the CBS Evening News or your favorite prime time show on a network news
channel.
Don't wait for that.
Don't wait for the first twenty five thousand dollars keynote speech to build yourself a big professional
studio.
Just use your ten dollar webcam if you need to or nothing else.
Hold your cell phone up.
A capture video of some of the most successful videos I have with tens and tens of thousands of views
were ones where an idea came to me and I just spoke right to my cell phone, uploaded it to the YouTube
while at the barbershop.
So do not wait.
I need you to come up with an editorial calendar.
How when on your schedule and how much are you going to write daily?
How many videos are you going to produce every single week?
Ideally, every day.
When I say produce a video, I just mean simple talking head.
I would not if you want to be a professional speaker, waste a lot of time on all sorts of editing,
special effects, green screen, not just talk.
If you're being hired as a speaker, you're not being hired as the video producer.
You're hired to speak.
So all the my videos, in fact, you can even see in this course here, I don't have any production
values other than a good light, good audio and a good camera.
There's no editing, there's no graphics, there's no post-production.
It's very simple.
I would recommend you do the same thing.
So come up with your editorial calendar right now.
What are you going to produce on a daily basis?
It's critical to your long term success as a speaker.

--- Develop a Tribe That Will Follow You Into Battle ---

So you've got a plan for creating content.
I hope you really can stick to it, because this is the sort of thing if you write a blog every day
for a month and then you say, well, you know, I'm a little busy, I'll pick up again once we get
through this tough week.
You'll never write the blog again.
Six months go by.
You look, it'll be empty and it will be worthless.
You'll have wasted your time.
Same with the YouTube channel.
If you say, well, I'm going to do five this week and let me take a week off and then you'll never
come back to it, you need a regular schedule for your YouTube followers.
Now, here's why we're doing all this.
You need to be a part of A community, and B, you need to be a leader of that community and you need
to have your own tribe.
Seth Godin really stresses this concept of the tribe, whether you call it a tribe followers, people
who love your stuff, fans, it doesn't really matter what you call it.
You've got to find a group of people who just who care about your stuff, your ideas they might not
love.
You want to marry you, but they respect your ideas.
And think of you when that subject comes up.
That's what you need, that's all you need now.
That's the good news, that's all you need.
Is it from the bad news is it's really hard to find a try because you are competing with billions of
other people out there who are posting on Facebook and posting on their blog and creating a YouTube
channel.
It's hard to cut through the clutter and you can't just be pushing your stuff all the time.
You've got to be engaging people, anyone, no matter how time consuming it is.
Anyone who puts a comment on one of my YouTube channels, I respond.
Unless they're just saying nasty, nasty things about me, then I might not.
But if it's anything of substance, I respond.
Someone post a comment on my blog, I respond.
You have to engage people.
It's not just about being the expert.
There was a time pre Internet, pre social media 15, 20, 30 years ago where it was all about.
You're the expert on your Martha Stewart.
You're the expert, you're pushing it down and people are looking up to you these days.
It's not quite like that.
You need to be a part of a community.
The best person is really an expert on this.
And I would recommend his books.
Gary Vaynerchuk of TV Wine Library Guy now of owner media.
He his rule of thumb is for every hour you spend creating content, you should spend about eight hours
responding to other people's questions, responding to what they ask.
It's almost all response.
And he would spend 15 minutes on his TV wine library, show night and then spend hour after hour in
the evening answering every single person's question about wine and what's the best wine for fish.
And that's how we get famous.
That's how we create an entire empire.
And that's how he gets speaking gigs at forty thousand dollars or more a pop because he became so famous
because thousands, hundreds of thousands, even millions of people cared about him.
And they watched his show.
They went to his blog.
They followed him on Twitter.
And he's been able to use that audience for all of his other business ventures and best selling books
and keynote speeches.
So that's the hard part about all this, is you have to find a tribe of people who care about your stuff.
Now, it doesn't have to be huge.
Some leading experts on marketing contend that if you just have a thousand people who really care about
your stuff, that's enough to make a nice living, not just from speaking, but from selling your products
services.
It's more important to define your niche and be the leader of that niche than to be the number one expert
on motivational speaking in the world.
Pick your niche wisely and then you've got to create great content.
You got to create new content, you've got to create original content, and you have to take the time
to engage with people.
And there are no shortcuts.
Believe me, there's all sorts of gimmicks out there.
And software program you can buy two hundred thousand Twitter followers.
That's not what I'm talking about.
That is a complete, utter waste of time.
The value of having two hundred thousand Twitter followers is if those people actually read your stuff
like it, respect it, retweeted and occasionally do what you suggest they should do.
If you bought the two hundred thousand Twitter followers or the five hundred thousand Facebook likes,
it's completely worthless.
I would rather have fifty Twitter followers who liked me and cared about me and respected than five
million Twitter followers if it's just something that was purchased or manipulated somehow.
So that's the bad news is there really aren't any shortcuts to creating a tribe these days because content
is everywhere.
You can Google any subject matter in the world and come up with millions of pages, content is everywhere.
You've got to figure out what can you do where you really add something that's special, that's different,
that's unique.
How can you add something to the conversation already?
To build a tribe, to build fans, to build followers?
If you solve this problem, the speaking gigs will come.
If you don't follow, if you don't solve this problem, then the whole speaking geek thing is going
to be a constant effort.
It's going to be a real challenge and it's going to be just like pulling teeth.
It's not going to be a fun process.
So don't skip this process.
And I realize we can't just do it now.
And one homework assignment in five minutes.
But I do need you to give some real thought to who your tribe is.
I want you to describe this person who is the sort of person, how old are they?
What kind of company do they work and what industry do they work in?
What are their concerns?
Why does this person need your expertise and want your expertise?
If you are an expert on corporate strategy in the tech industry, then your audience very well may be
CEOs, CEOs and the top hundred tech companies might not be a huge audience, but that's an audience
that hires a lot of speakers and they have a lot of money for consulting and everything else.
So that's what you've got to figure out right now, is who's likely to be your where are they now?
What websites are they going to now?
Constantly amazed by people who tell me I want to be a professional speaker and I speak on change management
and I say, oh, really?
Well, so tell me, who are the top ten authors and experts you respect?
What blogs do you go to those YouTube channels?
Do you already watch?
Who do you think are the best experts in the field and who do you think are rated?
And often it's like, uh, well, I don't know, but I know I'm good, really.
You can't be a real expert on something unless you know what all the competition is doing.
So I need you to focus right now and figure out paint a picture.
Who is your audience?
Who are who are the possible people who are going to make up your tribe?
Doesn't have to be a billion people, doesn't have to be a million people, but it's got to be more
than you and your immediate family and friends.
So think of that and write your notes down.

--- Making Sure Your Business Model is Profitable ---

If you're really going to be a professional speaker, you need a business model and your business model
can't just be well, I wrote this great book over the last three years.
I'm going to send it off to some New York publishers and then I'm sure it's going to be published.
It'll be a bestseller.
And I'll get on The Today Show and Good Morning America and I'll be rich and famous.
And then all the speaking bureaus will want me.
That's not a business model.
That's a lottery ticket.
And if you're serious about being a professional speaker, that's just not going to cut it.
So as I mentioned to you earlier, again, if your goal is to be a professional speaker, that's frankly
a waste of time.
Your goal should be.
I have a particular area of expertise and I want to help the world in a lot of different ways.
And one of those ways will be giving keynote speeches.
But if you're really serious about the expertise, there should be a lot of different ways you can make
money from it.
Consulting should be one of those revenue models.
Writing books very may very well be part of your revenue model, although be careful.
Most people I know who write books, even best selling books, don't really make any money.
I've written eight books and I can tell you if I had to live on what I made from books, I would be
very thin and lean.
Right now, books primarily are a means of promotion as opposed to making a lot of money.
But every so often someone does write a book that makes them a lot of money.
And more important, it's an important credential for your business these days.
I would recommend before you even write a book, create an online course.
There are a lot of good places online where you can create courses and sell them and make money, places
like you, to be in other courses like that, other online platforms that are open that will allow you
to speak record on video and create a course around it so you can have a revenue source from online
courses, from books, you can have revenue from YouTube ads.
You can have revenue from keynote speeches, which will talk about consulting.
If you're already an employment lawyer, you have a law practice that's a part of your business model
ideally, and something that doesn't have quite the glamour of professional speaking on the stage with
a thousand adoring people looking up is training, giving seminars, breakout sessions.
That's primarily my niche.
Now I do give keynote speeches for money and I do make money from YouTube and I do get royalties from
books and even DVDs and CDs.
And I do make money from online courses.
But most of my money, most of my revenue for my business comes from corporations and governments and
non-government organizations hiring me for a half day or a full day of public speaking, training and
media.
So I'm speaking, but often to small groups.
So training very well bit it may very well may be a part of your revenue mix.
So don't neglect that.
You need to come up with all the different ways that you can make money.
But here's the kicker.
Here's what everyone gets wrong.
The important thing is not having multiple streams of revenue and the important thing is not having
passive.
If someone starts telling you about passive income, grab your wallet and run.
There have been more speakers who've potential speakers, aspiring speakers who have lost their house
because some con man sold them on the idea of passive income.
I have never worked so hard in my life as I have for so-called passive income.
You've got to come up with your business model and the first thing you need is your main driver.
What's the one thing that's going to make most of your money?
You look at the most successful people in the world who speak.
They typically have one base.
Rush Limbaugh written best selling books.
He's had a TV show.
He gives speeches.
He's had his own tie line.
That all flows from that daily radio show.
Howard Stern has TV shows, guest appearances on other shows, books, movies, but it all flows from
that daily radio show.
Now, I'm not suggesting you have to be a radio star.
What I am suggesting is you need a base because I have seen countless aspiring professional speakers
spinning their wheels of, oh, I'm going to write a book here and I got a DVD product here and I got
a CD product here.
And I have this recurring revenue, passive income here.
And you add it all up and it's pennies.
And three months later they've made three hundred dollars and they can't pay their rent and they have
to go back to work.
Managing Burger King.
That's not professional speaking.
You've got to figure out a way of making money.
Now, if you're currently a full time teacher or an insurance adjuster, there's nothing wrong with
that.
Keep your job and keep doing this stuff on your other free time.
You can make your YouTube videos at ten o'clock at night.
You can work around your schedule because you're booking yourself.
So you need a source of revenue.
I don't care if your goal is to give all the money away to charity and help.
That's fine.
But you're not going to help anyone else.
You're not going to be taken seriously if you're not dressed nicely.
No one wants to see someone up on a stage.
You don't have to be in a suit and tie, but you can't look like you don't know where your next meal
is coming from and make it as a professional speaker.
I'm sorry.
It's just not going to happen again.
You don't want to wear a suit and tie.
You've got to wear something that is appropriate to what your message is about.
So you need a business model.
And if that part of that business model is doing the old job you hate until you get things going, do
that.
Don't quit too soon because then your family and friends are going to be sick of you living on their
couch and they're going to be laughing at you, calling yourself the success coach and you're unsuccessful.
There has to be something that's plausible there.
So that's what I need you to do now.
Come up with a business plan.
I want to know all your sources of revenue that you see yourself making money from.
But most important, I want to know your main source of revenue.
I want to know that if you could only do one thing.
Maybe it's consulting, maybe it's billing by the hour, as a practicing attorney, I want to know,
what is the one thing you would do that you can do that you will do that will already support you if
none of the other stuff came through.
It's critical that you have this down.
Think about it, ponder it.
Write it down now.

--- Marketing ---

So you've got your business model, you've got your area of expertise, you're creating content, what's
the best way of marketing yourself as a speaker?
Well, this is the question that people grapple with.
It's the question of the ages for professional speakers and aspiring professional speakers.
And the fact is it changes.
There was a time when you could buy mailing list, get your demo tape, do a lot of mass mailings,
send out DVDs.
And if the timing was right, your subject was you could really catch fire.
That did work.
Those days are over.
The best way to market yourself is to define your niche.
And when someone goes to Googling is never heard of you and types in sales guru, they find you.
If you're the sales guru, if they want to know change management, they're looking for expertise in
that, they find you first.
How do you get to be number one and Google for your search term?
Well, you need to be creating great content every single day and have people talking about it, linking
it, retweeting it.
And you're probably going to need a search engine optimization company as well, which means you're
going to need money.
And that's why we talked about the business model.
So that's why you need to be consulting and keeping your day job.
You need money for those things.
You need to really establish yourself so that if someone types in your phrase on Google, they find
you.
If they go to YouTube and type in the phrase, they see your video, they go to Amazon, type in the
phrase, and the first three books are all written by you.
That's the number one way to market yourself as a speaker.
You want to just bombard people.
You want to have people saying, oh, my God, I see you everywhere.
If they follow your particular niche and your particular industry, that's the number one way of marketing
yourself that can't be done overnight.
You can't simply hire a speaker marketer who's going to put together that demo tape and send it out.
And boy, you can start cashing the checks and getting the first class tickets to Hawaii to speak at
that dental conference just doesn't work that way anymore.
So my advice is you've got to focus on creating great content, create a tribe of people who care about
you and let them constantly see you speaking.
That's why you get to do videos.
It also means you have to speak in front of real audiences is often a spot, even if it's free for now,
because that way you can get more video of yourself, which, by the way, even a so so-called free
speech is never free because you're going to be selling your online courses, your books, your video,
your consulting.
You're using that as a promotion through all of them.
I have for free speaking is if it's in my town and they don't have any problem with me marketing, other
things I'm doing, then I may do it.
If it fits my schedule, I certainly am not going to travel, nor would I recommend you travel anywhere
where you're speaking for free.
The other option for speaking these days is through Skype video.
I give speeches all over the world.
I've given a speech to business groups and in New Zealand I'm getting ready to give a speech in Iran,
believe it or not, without having to leave home.
I speak through Skype.
So one of the things you should have is not a fancy expensive studio.
But for example, what I have here, this is just a TV screen and it's an old TV.
It's not even a big TV.
And TV screens these days cost practically nothing here.
So I'm turning it off now.
I'm turning it back on.
It's very, very simple thing.
You can see the TV.
I do have an old closet.
I've turned into a TV studio, a couple of lights and a broadcast quality camera, and that's really
all it is to it.
And now, because I turn that off, you'll see what's going on in the backdrop.
So it's a very simple production.
These are some of the things you need if you really want to be taken seriously as a professional speaker.
So I want you to focus on that right now.
Think of all the different areas where you can speak, think of how you can monetize it, and think
of how you can let people know when people say, hey, this is great, you're fantastic, we're going
to get more of you.
Let them know, hey, I give professional speeches.
Let me know if your organization needs a speaker.

--- Setting Speaking Fees ---

Fees, what do you charge everyone always wants to know what's your fee, how much you make, how much
should I charge?
If you are a professional speaker aspiring and you're not used to getting fees, this can feel awkward.
This can feel scary.
You certainly like as much money as possible, but you want experience and you want more video and you
want to be in front of people.
Here's my recommendation.
If it is a business organization, a trade association, and they say, what is your fee?
Just say my standard fee is five thousand dollars.
Don't say anything after that.
Wait and see what they have to say.
If it's a serious organization and they are looking for professional speakers, that's considered about
the bottom there.
That shouldn't be a problem.
Now, there are plenty of exceptions to these rules, if you are speaking to the bar association and
you're a lawyer and you want to speak about international patent law and all the other speakers, their
lawyers, and no one's getting paid.
Chances are you're not going to get paid.
But it still might be a great opportunity for you because someone in the audience might give you a client
that generates millions of dollars of fees for your firm.
So I'm not saying you should never, ever, ever speak without being paid.
Everybody speaks without getting their full fee.
Plenty of times when you two goes on David Letterman, they're not getting paid well.
They're getting the union scale of a thousand dollars, but they're not really getting paid for that.
They're doing it to get in front of a larger audience to sell albums and CDs.
So don't kid yourself.
There are a lot of people in the professional speaking circuit talk about fee integrity.
You can't ever drop a single penny.
Everyone charges differently from time to time.
George Clooney charges twenty twenty five million dollars for some movies.
Other movies he might do for two hundred thousand.
It just depends.
Any time you fly somewhere, every person on that airplane may be paying a different fee for that ticket.
It's variable pricing.
So there's some flexibility here.
But you do need a starting point.
And I do believe if you want to be treated seriously as a professional, you need to have a set starting
point and you probably shouldn't go less than five thousand dollars.
The easiest way to increase your fees, frankly, is to be so busy doing other stuff that you can easily
say no.
Now, you can also just arbitrarily decide, this is my value, this is what I want.
And I would thoroughly recommend Alan Weiss's books on professional speaking and selling on value versus
time.
Excellent, excellent writer and someone who has shaped the professional speaking industry.
So I would recommend his books to give you more guidance on charging.
But here's the thing.
Whatever you do, it can't be like two thousand.
The second someone who hears doubt in your voice, they're going to think we're going to get this person
for free.
This person is going to be paying us to speak at this event.
So you can't be hesitant.
You can have doubt.
You can negotiate sometimes.
Maybe this particular organization you're speaking to has an audience of people who could be major,
major corporate clients to your consulting firm and generate millions of dollars.
And maybe there could be times when it's more valuable for you to have a full page ad in the convention,
handout the convention manual catalog than a equipped to get a ten thousand dollar fee.
Whatever it is, you've got to decide what your value is, your time and what value you want from this
organization, what they can give you.
Cash money is obviously the best value, the most convertible and most flexible, but there may be other
things as well.
So sometimes you do have to get creative, but have a starting point, have a base and be ready to tell
people that with absolute complete confidence.

--- Developing World Class Platform Skills ---

So this is the very last lesson in this entire course, and only now are we going to talk about your
platform skills, your actual speaking.
So why is that?
Some people think, well, that's crazy, going to be a professional speaker.
You've got to be a great speaker, right?
Well, yes, you do have to be a great speaker.
But the reason I placed this last is based on all my research and everyone I know in the industry,
having been in the speaking world at some capacity for the last 30 years, this is the easiest part.
Now, I'm a speech coach.
Everyone has a bias.
I think I could train a dog at this point to be a fantastic keynote speaker.
That's the easy part.
The hard part is, do you have a real passion for the subject?
Are you really creating great.
Do you have a tribe?
Having a tribe of people who care passionately about your ideas?
That's hard.
Having a business model where you make a lot of money and some of that money goes back into more promotion.
That's hard.
Speaking in an interesting, captivating, compelling way is relatively easy.
Now, I have a lot of courses on how to be a great speaker, and if you're write to me after seeing
that, I'll give you a pass to that for free.
But all you really need to know is if you want to be a great speaker, you've got to focus on a handful
of ideas.
You have to have a story for each idea to flesh it out and make it interesting, compelling and memorable.
If you want to be a professional speaker, you have to walk around and look at people and gesture.
You can't be standing behind a lectern like some boring professor or some tedious, scared CFO.
You can't be reading bullet points on a PowerPoint.
You can use PowerPoint, but you got to use images.
And you have to be compelling and interesting, you got to be memorable, you can't simply be a competent
speaker.
There's a huge, huge difference between being somebody and in your corporation that's seen as a good,
confident speaker and being a professional speaker.
You can be a competent speaker in those corporations as long as you don't put everybody to sleep or
drool or mess up the PowerPoint order, you're seen as a good speaker.
Well, that's obviously not going to be enough in the professional speaking world.
You have to have the intellectual content.
You have to have the emotion with the stories, and you have to have the stage mechanics in play so
that you're comfortable.
You're walking around, you're gesturing, you're not nervous.
You can't be holding scripts now.
You can have notes if no one sees them.
But you can't be using teleprompters unless you're incredibly famous.
These are the basic performance skills you have now.
I'll give you the one hour course in 30 seconds.
You're going to get good at speaking.
You keep practicing on video, watch yourself, do more of the stuff you like, do less of the stuff
you don't like, and do it again and again and keep watching yourself on video till you think you're
great.
Do that.
You'll have the speaking skills you need.
That's easy.
Having a tribe, having a business model much harder.
But by all means, go ahead and start building your speaking skills.
They need to be not good, but great.

--- Advancing Your Professional Speaking Career ---

This concludes this course on how to be a professional speaker and in summary, I think you realize
by now I don't think you should aspire to be a professional speaker.
Now, I do want you to speak.
I do want you to make money, but you should aspire for world class excellence in a subject matter,
and then you should aspire to share that knowledge, those insights, to help as many people as possible
to every means possible.
Through your blog, through your YouTube channel, through Facebook, through books, through videos,
through online courses, and, yes, by speaking in front of large audiences as a keynote speaker,
as a professional speaker.
And the way to do this is by forming a tribe, being so passionate about a subject matter, going so
deep, knowing more about it than anyone else, having more insights than anyone else, and having a
huge group of people or even a medium sized group of people who really care about your insights.
Do that and let the world know that you speak and speak and speak and you'll get better and better.
And here's the ultimate marketing tip for speaking.
The more you speak, the more you'll speak, especially if the speech you give on Tuesday is a great
speech.
More and more invitations you'll get Wednesday to speak the next month and the next month in the next
month.
So I wish you great success in your speaking career.
But more important, I wish you huge success in your career as a world class expert in your field.
I'm T.J. Walker.
I hope to see you on the platform.

--- This is How You Will Communicate on Skype, Google Hangouts, Etc ---

Presenting online now you may already be a comfortable speaker face to face, talking in front of crowds,
talking to the media, but in a sense that's easier than speaking online when you're speaking to a live
audience.
You can look people in the eye.
You can ask them questions.
They can ask you back.
There can be an interactivity when you're speaking to a reporter or a talk show host, you can see a
real person there.
But online is, in a sense, more difficult than those because you can't see the people looking at you
unless it's a live Skype forum.
So there is something different about presenting online.
This course is going to give you tips to increase the odds that you're successful and that you'll know
how to come across comfortable, confident, relaxed any time you have to communicate online because
it is a little different.
And for some people, it's the hardest type of communication.
And because of that, people often grab on to crutches that really make things worse.
For example, nothing's worse than just hearing a voice and seeing a bunch of slides with bullet points
come by.
And when you think of presenting online, that's probably what you think I would say.
That's the lazy man's, the lazy woman's way of doing it.
These days, virtually every computer has a webcam, so there's no reason why people can't actually
see you.
Speaking now doesn't mean you can't have slides.
But if you've got an opportunity to present in an online environment on Skype or the webinar on a Google
chat room, wherever it is, use it.
Don't hide behind a little picture or video image.
So your first assignment here is pick a topic about five minutes or so that you have to present to people
in an online environment.
Think of the topic.
Start thinking about what you want to say.

--- Tricks for Look Good on Camera - Presentation Skills ---

So let me address the number one reason most people don't present online where you actually see them.
It's because people don't know how to look their best.
They're afraid of looking stupid, scared, nervous, uncomfortable, unflattering, double chin show,
all legitimate reasons.
We're all human beings.
We all have some level of vanity.
So might as well come to grips with this.
I'm going to show you exactly how to come across your best.
The number one problem most people have when they are presenting online is the phrase, I'm here today
to tell you about the professional services at my X, Y, Z company and everything freezes except their
mouth.
So the best thing you can do is to move move the way you do when you're normally relaxed, talking to
a friend, talking to a colleague.
Now, it's easier to say that than it is to do it.
You're going to have to practice.
But the thing to remember is you have to move your head, see how my head is moving.
If you doubt me, hit the mute button on the video.
Now you'll see my head is still moving.
You want to move your head, you want to move your face.
You also want to move your body.
And you do want to move your hands.
Now, even though you might not see my hands, my hands are moving because when you move your hands,
your body moves more, your voice has more fluctuation to it.
Those things will have you looking relaxed and comfortable.
So you want movement.
The next thing you have to remember, it's you've got to lean forward a little bit.
Now, I'm standing for this.
It's probably going to be easier for you to be sitting.
This is just how I have my studio setup.
But if you're doing this from your laptop or your desktop, no reason why you can't see it.
But here's what happens.
If you're sitting back relaxed, you're going to look like you have a double chin.
Even if you don't have a double chin, you're going to look fatter and heavier than you are, even if
you're not overweight.
So the worst position you can ever have is sitting back.
The next big mistake people have is sitting up perfectly straight, because now I look scared and stiff
and nervous.
You need to lean forward about 15 degrees into the camera.
So here from a side view, you can now see I am leaning forward.
It's not necessarily good posture in the traditional sense, but it will make you look best on TV.
It creates a stronger jaw line and the camera latches on to your face.
The other thing that's crucial, your eyes, if you're trying to look at the camera and then you have
your notes up on the wall or a teleprompter over here, you become literally shifty eyed.
Now, again, as I mentioned in an earlier lecture, there's nothing wrong with occasionally glancing
down, looking at notes and coming back and doing it again.
But most of the time, you should be looking at the camera.
The key, of course, is you have to keep moving your head because if your head freezes and nothing
else is moving again, looks like a robot.
You don't seem believable.
The other thing that's important on camera shield, a little bit of a smile, because if if you're just
like this and talking like this, it's going to make your face look blank, scared, flat, uninterested.
So you need a little bit of a smile on your face just to look relaxed and comfortable.
So these are the basics.
I want you to record yourself on video now, specifically practicing moving your face, moving your
eyebrows, moving your head, moving your body and moving your hands.
Do it all right now.
Record it and then look at it.
See what you think.

--- Become a Total Professional by Doing These Things ---

When you are presenting online, realize that you can start communicating with people before they ever
sign on to see you, before they're ever watching that YouTube video, before they ever sign on for
that one p.m. webinar start time, you can communicate by e-mailing them content in advance.
Now, here's where the typical PowerPoint slide with lots of numbers and lots of words, graphs, charts.
It can be handy because if you are presenting to 50 colleagues around the country within your trade
organization or perhaps within your company, email them if you can get the emails in advance.
Your entire presentation document, background material, white papers.
Now, you may say, well, if I do that, no one will want to show up.
No one will listen.
It doesn't work like that.
Friends more is more.
The more you give people, the more they will want from you.
And they will not complain, I promise you that.
Wow, that was the same thing as what I read and memorize because people don't remember much.
They certainly don't remember something.
Glancing at it quickly, reading it on a cell phone and then hearing you talk about it two days later.
Now, of course, you shouldn't be reading your PowerPoint, the same thing you sent to them in your
presentation.
We'll talk about how you actually present later.
But I do want to stress it's a great, great opportunity for you to start the communication process
by emailing people text documents in advance of your actual live webinar, Skype meeting.
Go to a meeting.
Now, frequently I'm asked to train people on, for example, media training in a live webinar before
I ever talk to them.
I send them not one, but two of my media training books to read.
Those who want to read it, read it.
Those who don't want to read it, don't read it.
But at least it gives people an opportunity to also helps cement my reputation in their minds of, hey,
this guy is serious about this stuff.
He's authored a couple of books on just this one niche subject.
The other thing is when I've touched on certain themes in the presentation, they're more likely to
go back and read the document I sent to them in advance.
So keep in mind, and this applies to presentations in real life, too, when you're face to face,
don't be afraid to give people information in advance.
I guarantee you, if you email people a large PDF or a book or a white paper a week before your presentation
or a day before your presentation, they're not going to sit there, print that out, start watching
you in this online environment, and then be flipping through paper text to see where it tracks.
I understand sometimes people are concerned with that, don't they?
But again, this is all predicated on the assumption that you're not simply going to email them a whole
bunch of bullet points and then be reading the bullet points from the same document.
You need to use a different document.
Keep in mind, at any group you speak to, they're going to be some people who are really low level
interest in what you're talking about.
They'll just show up.
And even then, half the time they're doing this or they've got another screen open if they're watching
you online, there's some people who are moderately interested.
They're not going to do anything before or after, but they'll pay attention.
But they're going to be some people who are highly, highly interested in this topic that you're discussing.
And they're going to find it a fascinating topic.
They really want to learn as much as they can.
I can't tell you and your audience if that's going to be 50 percent, five percent or point five percent.
But my point is you might as well reach them.
And that's where giving them more content, the better, the more the merrier.
For that group.
You create more permanent bonds with them.
You will help them or you will further cement your reputation, your brand with them as the expert on
that subject.
So don't be shy about giving people lengthy white papers, lengthy PDF.
Again, they don't want to read it.
They don't have to.
If you give somebody one hundred pages and they want to read a five page document, give them the whole
thing, they can read the first five pages.
Ideally, you have a nice executive summary in two pages.
So if they quit after two pages, they can still get what's really important to you the more ways you
communicate.
The better now, I do think when someone's watching you speak, whether it's in person or online, that's
a very, very powerful way.
But it's even more powerful when you combine it with them, having read information, books, PDF,
White Pages, press releases in advance.
So please use that to if you have a video clip, you could send that to them in advance just because
you have a set time, 1:00 p.m. Eastern on a Wednesday to address people.
Don't think for a moment that that means you can't communicate in every other format.
So that's what I want you to do now.
Come up with some kind of a document.
It could be a simple one page fact sheet, come up with some one page document that you're willing to
email to your audience that really covers the most important aspects of your online presentation.

--- Here is How to Truly Engage Your Audience ---

Probably the most important thing about presenting online and this is where it's different from face
to face presentations, is you've got to really work almost every second of your presentation interaction.
You need to be asking people questions, giving them an excuse and motivating them to do something back.
They can post a comment on a chat room.
You want to be asking for questions constantly.
You may want to put forth a question in a polling format.
If you have the sort of software where you can see who is online, reference them.
You can say.
And Jamie, you had a similar experience with this, with your company in Kansas City.
Can you share with us briefly how that happened?
Now, if they have the chance to come on with their audio, great.
If you're not using a system that allows that level of interactivity, maybe you simply reference Jamie
in Kansas City because you spoke to her earlier that day or a week earlier or a year earlier.
When somebody hears their name, it's human nature for them.
Better pay attention.
So reference the people in the room, give them homework assignments, toss out questions constantly.
Got to worry about people starting to listen to you.
But I got a text from a friend.
Why do you can't come tonight.
Oh, my.
And you've lost them.
It is so much easier to lose people in online presentations.
And that's why I've got to stress again and again and again interactivity.
The more questions you ask people, the more polls, the more you reference actual individuals who you
know are in the audience, the better.
It's virtually impossible to be too interactive.
Now, of course, you have to deliver core content.
You have to put forth good, useful ideas.
You've got to demonstrate your expertise.
But what you can't do is do a big data dump and not give people the chance to ask questions.
By the way, every so often just stop and say, am I making sense so far?
Are you with me in a normal presentation?
You can do that by looking at the eyes of the people in your audience, because they're kind of like
that will send you a signal to go back and give another example, another case study on the point you
just hit.
But when it comes to online presentations, we lose all of these verbal cues.
And that's why it's critically important.
Toss out questions, toss out apples, reference people again and again and again throughout.

--- Technology for Interaction - Presentation Skills ---

There's a lot of different technology that will help your audience interact with you when you're giving
an online presentation, Skype is different from Google Chat.
That's different from the YouTube chat aspect.
That's different from GoToMeeting.
My advice to whatever system you're using, you've really got to get familiar with it and you need to
practice before the actual event because sometimes there's a little chat box here.
If you don't know it's there, you're going to miss it.
You're going to think, wow, no one interacted at all.
I'm unpopular.
And maybe there were 50 messages and you didn't see them.
It's very, very hard to learn a new technology when you're giving a speech.
Let me tell you right now, I don't care how often you do it.
There's a little bit of adrenaline flowing.
And when you know that fifty, one hundred, maybe a thousand people are watching you or listening to
you, that's the absolute worst time to learn a new technology.
So don't try.
You simply want to go with the flow and be in the moment presenting when you're doing that.
So that's why it's crucial that you learn the technology platform you're in, exactly how the interaction
goes.
Now, worst case scenario, give people your email address.
There's nothing I've done that plenty of times, especially if a chat box was supposed to work and it
didn't work.
Give people your email address because you can just quickly pull up your Gmail, whatever service you're
using and read an email question from someone or read an email comment from someone.
There's no perfect way.
It's just you need to know exactly the technology someone can use.
Now, some more advanced systems make it relatively easy for someone to just speak.
That's the best of all possible worlds.
But you've got to make sure if that happens, the people not speaking have their mute button on.
Otherwise, you're going to get all sorts of feedback, dog noises around there.
There's going to be too much clutter and people will be able to hear it.
So I certainly do recommend allowing other people to have their voices on.
But you've got to really monitor that so that the feedback doesn't overwhelm it.
Bottom line, learn the technology of the platform you're using for interactivity and then make it easy
for people to do.
By the way, this applies even to when it's not live.
If you are shooting a video and you're putting it on YouTube, make sure you enable it so that people
can leave comments.
I mean, it's basic stuff, but too often people are worried about, oh, what if someone says something
critical?
I don't like it.
Grow up.
Criticism is a part of life.
Believe me, I get criticism all the time, especially on YouTube.
A lot of it's nasty, personal, vicious BDI, bald, ugly, stupid guy.
Look, if you have to put it so, the comments have to be approved first, but make it easy for people
to communicate back with you.
You've got to master that technology of interactivity and you've got to make it so that the people you're
speaking to now, you want comments on your YouTube videos, tell people, please comment here and let's
start a discussion.
That's what you want.
The best presentations in the world are more group discussions than they are.
One way communication.

--- The Ethical Way of Cheating ---

I'm hoping I've convinced you if your online presentations to actually present where the video camera
is on you, I think it's so much more powerful, it shows so much more confidence on your part.
It will build your own personal brand.
But it is a little different now when you're presenting in front of a large audience.
You may be used to having a lectern, you may be used to walking around that can make you more comfortable
and you might be clicking using the slides as your teleprompter.
It's a little bit different for online.
However, some things remain the same.
So, for example, here, my notes for my presentation to you today on this.
I just have a single sheet of paper and some text.
There's absolutely nothing wrong, nothing whatsoever wrong with talking to people, look in the camera,
but then occasionally glance down at your notes.
Now, that's far different from head buried in reading like this, like a robot, because that will
put everybody to sleep.
Then you need notes.
You need a cheat sheet for yourself.
I would highly recommend you keep it to a single sheet of paper, even if you're presenting for an hour.
If you've got more than that, you probably haven't done enough editing.
So don't try to memorize, for goodness sake.
Don't try to read to people when you're giving an online presentation.
And that's one of the biggest flaws, frankly, of no video camera.
People think, wow, nobody can see me.
I can just sit here and read the script and nobody will know I'm reading a script.
Well, yeah, people know.
They can tell with the tone of your voice.
Unless you're a full time professional newscaster, it's virtually impossible to read text.
Without sounding like you're reading text and that puts people to sleep, you need to sound like you're
just talking to people.
This is a presentation.
We've all seen presenters in real life, college professors, business executives where their head is
down and they're just reading and it's boring.
And what does everyone do?
They sort of half listen and they're checking their e-mail.
You do not want to give people a chance to zone out, because that's one thing different about online
presentations.
It's much, much easier for your audience to zone out because they're already at their computer.
Their Facebook page is one click away.
The sports scores are a one click away.
Their stock price is always one click away.
So you do not have the luxury of droning on, being boring, sounding like you are reading.
You do not have that luxury.
So that's why you've got to seem like you care about this and you've got to be looking into the camera.
I'll give you more tips shortly on how to look your best on camera, but you've got to be looking at
the camera and speaking like you're talking to a real human being.
But I'm not expecting you to memorize everything.
So please get your cheat sheet ready.
That's your homework right now.
Put together a one page cheat sheet for your five minute online presentation now.

--- Video Versus Slides ---

The first decision you have to make when you're going to present online is are you going to do it sort
of the easy coward's way of just having your voice and a bunch of pictures, or are you going to do
it the honest way and a more powerful way, which is to show yourself speaking.
I'm talking about any online presentation, whether it's a recorded YouTube video, whether you are
doing a webinar through some sort of webinar service, Skype, talking to people, a Google chat.
There's always the chance to sort of hide behind graphics.
I mean, this is just a little video loop behind me, but I'm not trying to use that as the only thing
for you to look at, because I want you to see me so you can get a sense of what do I think is important?
It's just easier for people to follow your concepts, your message, if they can see you at least part
of the time.
So that's the first decision you've got to make, because if you make the decision to just sort of speak
and read from a script, it's going to be really hard not to bore people to death.
Now, I'm going to give you tips that will apply to a lot of different situations, including those
where people can only hear you.
But I would urge you right now, make the decision to use video for yourself.
And if you're not using video, ask yourself, what are your reasons?
If your reasons are, I don't like to be on video or I'm not a good TV person out, those are bad reasons.
If you have a message and you can communicate it with some conviction, some passion, you can be fine
on video because anyone who can speak well in person, people can see that.
Why not let them see you in a video format to online?
So if we're going to do a video, let me give you a few tips.
The way people mess up the most is just with a few basic technical flaws.
They start with any time they're doing video, whether it's a webcam, whether it's Skype, whether
it's Google chat and hear the problems, they start off with a camera too low and it's sort of looking
up their nose.
No one kind of looks good like that.
And it's very easy if you're using a laptop or even a desktop and the camera is six, eight, 12 inches
below, you're going to look awful.
Here's a simple solution.
Get a stack of books, get some old phone books.
If you still have those, get some other books and simply raise your laptop, raise your desktop to
the point where your camera is at eye level.
Now, I'm not in a super fancy, expensive studio now, but my camera is at my eye level, so it looks
more like a TV show.
It looks more professional than the typical sort of Skype video.
So that's the first step.
Now, the next area where people really go wrong is they have a window behind them.
So there's more light behind them than there is in front of them.
So what that does is that darkens out your face.
People can't see your face.
You look like a shadowy criminal figure.
The solution is relatively easy.
Close your blinds or aim the camera to a wall where there's no window behind it.
And then what you need is some light in front of you.
Now, I do have professional lights on here, but there have been times that I've simply used lamps,
taken the lamp shade off.
As long as there's more light in front of you focused on your face, then behind you, it's going to
be easy for the camera to pick you up and you'll look your best.
The third big area for trouble for most people is the audio.
If you're using the microphone built into your computer, it's going to sound tinny, tinny, echoey.
It's just not going to be great.
So what I would recommend is buy.
You see it right here.
This is a live microphone short for lavalier microphone.
You can buy one at RadioShack for twenty bucks.
You can get one on Amazon for probably about nine bucks.
It's not expensive, but this way the microphone is only this far away from your mouth.
If you're speaking and sitting at your desk, then it's going to be more like two, three, four feet
away from the microphone.
And that's what creates that echoey sound.
When you have good audio quality, it makes it so much easier for people to listen to you.
When the lighting is right and people aren't looking up your nose, everything is less distracting.
You can come across as professional, competent, authoritative.
It's just easier to listen to.
So.
I would urge you to take a few minutes to come up with these things, I realize you can't buy a microphone
like that, but you could place an order right now and it could be there in two days if you're using
Amazon Prime.
But I'm not pushing Amazon.
Use any service.
You wont get a mike anywhere, but you can very quickly elevate your computer and make sure you don't
have a blind behind you.
Put light in front of you.
Do those steps and you will be so much happier with how you look and how you sound for when you are
presenting online.
So go ahead and try to change your own configuration right now, either in your office, your home,
your laptop on the road, wherever you are.
Try to get a configuration so that when you record yourself on video, you are comfortable with how
it looks.

--- This is How Long Your Presentation Should Be ---

How long should your presentation be that you're giving online?
Now, the thing you hear again and again and again for people is, oh, everyone's got to be sure,
it's got to be sure no one has any attention span.
That's not exactly true.
You can do an online presentation for 60 seconds.
But if it's boring and uninteresting and you're putting forth stuff that isn't useful to people, everyone
will hit delete after five seconds.
On the other hand, if you've got really good, interesting content, you could be speaking for 90 minutes
and people are going to be demanding more.
So the number one thing I think that should drive your presentation is what is it that you've got to
communicate?
How important is it to you and to your audience?
Certainly, if you're speaking to 50 colleagues in your company who report to you and they are in 30
different locations around the world and you've got something that's really, really important, I wouldn't
put an artificial, arbitrary five or ten minute time limit on the presentation you're delivering through
Skype or YouTube or any other format.
Focus on the content that really needs to be delivered.
Certainly give people time to interact.
Now, if you are working, for example, with the trade association and they have 90 minute webinars
three times a week, and that's the format and that's what people have paid for.
That's what they're used to, well, then you need to be prepared to go 90 minutes.
But even then, realize it may only be 50 minutes of your talk time and the rest Q&amp;A.
So you don't want to pack it so full that you're not giving people time to talk now when you're doing
YouTube videos.
What I have found works best is to focus on just one idea, one concept, but then talk for as long
as you have interesting content.
It might be 10 seconds, it might be three hours.
I mean, if it's three hours, you could probably break it up.
But my point is, don't arbitrarily make it shorter.
Some of the videos I have on my YouTube channel that have the longest retention and the most views are
videos where I spoke for half an hour.
However, I can tell you the average length of someone watching a recorded video on YouTube for me is
one minute.
Thirty one seconds.
Yours may be different, but the main principles here I want to stress is you're not a TV show.
You're not trying to do things with a 60 second start.
Stopwatch, focus on the ideas, focus on what you have to really help your audience.
And the length of the presentation will often take care of itself.

--- Final Thoughts on Skype and Online Presentations ---

We are in the home stretch.
You are ready to give your online presentation if this is a big if, you did the exercise I asked for
in the last lecture, if you have not practiced your presentation online or recorded on video and watched
it, you aren't ready.
If all you're doing is watching these videos of me, frankly, you're wasting your time.
You should be looking at some comedy characters or something entertainment on YouTube.
It'll be a better use of time than simply watching me.
You've got to do the exercise.
So I beg you, if you haven't done it yet, go back and video record your presentation and get to the
point you're where you are happy with it.
Then that's be perfect.
Like the last sentence I stumbled over a word.
That's OK.
People do that in real conversation.
It doesn't really matter.
Get to the point where you're happy with it and you're coming across comfortable, confident, relaxed.
Two final points I want to leave you with no one like anything else.
The more you do it, the more comfortable you get.
Generally, the better you get.
So when you have opportunities to speak out, to present online, take them.
And you know what?
All of you have opportunities every day because you can make a YouTube video commenting on your area
of expertise, especially if there's anything in the news related to that.
So speak out present online as often as possible.
You'll get better and better and you'll get more comfortable with it.
The second thing is use every single online presentation you give as an opportunity to get better for
the next one.
What that means is you need a video recording of your online presentations and watch it after the fact,
preferably in the first twenty four hours, because how you think it went and how it actually went may
be very different.
You may think you were awful and then you watch it and you think, wow, that was great.
There's great interaction.
This is fine.
On the other hand, you may think this is great, I'm really rockin and you watch it and you realize
this is boring.
I wouldn't want to watch me.
That's useful information to know if you've ever been to a comedy club, you'll see comedians recording.
They put a little recording device off on a cell phone.
They're recording every stand up comedy bit.
They do because they want to go back and listen.
What got laughs what did you're not after last, but you are trying to figure out what worked and what
didn't work.
So if you do that, record every online presentation you get and then watch it and listen to it, you
can get a little bit better for the next one.
Keep doing that over time.
You'll just get better and better and better.
Good luck.
I'll see you online.

--- Learn the Secret to Speaking to Large Audiences ---

I've got good news and I've got bad news, the good news is it's actually pretty easy to speak in front
of large crowds, a thousand five thousand one hundred thousand.
All you have to do is the same thing you do when you're talking to one friend or colleague and you're
relaxed and animated, interesting and being conversational and telling stories and examples.
That's the good news.
The bad news is me simply telling you that doesn't make it any easier because we as human beings are
hardwired to be nervous about speaking in front of large crowds.
What happens is we tense up, our heart starts racing, we get scared, our brain stops working, our
memory stops working in our bodies, telling us, run our hands, get sweaty.
Well, why is that?
It is important before we really go deep into this and get great at it, to understand a little bit
of the background.
Evolutionary biologists believe we as human beings are hardwired to fear public speaking because public
speaking is essentially being separated from the crowd, separated from the herd and prehistoric times.
If we are in the jungle and we're a part of the herd, there's safety in numbers.
If there's two thousand other water buffalo with us or any sort of animal and a lion or a tiger bear
comes, our odds are pretty good one.
We'll get it out of the herd.
But the other one thousand nine hundred, we'll be safe.
So there's safety in numbers.
The old cliche is true.
If we're completely separated from the herd, if we're just all alone in the open field and animals
and other other predators of ours can see us from every direction, we're vulnerable.
We could be eaten, attacked.
That's not good.
So that's why many scientists believe that we as human beings are so nervous about speaking, especially
in front of large crowds.
That's why our bodies react differently.
That's why our hands get wet, moisture coming out, moisture coming out of our feet, too, because
our bodies telling us, don't think, run.
Now, you may have noticed if you ever tried to turn the page of a book, if you go like that, there's
more friction.
It's easier to turn that page the same way if you all of a sudden have to run through a jungle for your
life, having moisture coming out of your hands in the palm of your feet gives you more traction.
You can grab vines, swing away, and it's better for protection.
Your body's telling you run.
You've got that adrenaline rush, more energy.
But that's also when your body isn't working well from the neck up, you don't have the ability to think
clearly necessarily or to recall information because your body's telling you to spend all of your energy
running.
And it makes perfect sense if you're in the jungle about to be attacked.
Unfortunately, if you're about to give a speech in front of a major trade show conference of two thousand
people, that particular response isn't very helpful.
All it does is get in your way.

--- Your Fears Will Melt Away, After This ---

When it comes to speaking in front of large audiences, there's all sorts of chicken and egg issues,
if you just tell yourself it's not a problem, you can be conversational and you'll be relaxed.
But the trick is, how do you actually tell yourself this is easy?
Because what's happening is your eyes are seeing all these people.
And at some level you have an emotional response.
You have a physical response at an emotional level, which is, oh, my God, look at all these people
looking at me.
And that's what tightens us up.
That's what makes us scared.
That's what makes our brain shut down because your body's telling you run.
And unfortunately, it's that nervous response that then creates all sorts of other speaking pathologies
with respect to this large audience.
Now, we've all seen people who have really good dynamic talking one on one to a couple of people maybe
sitting around a boardroom.
They're commanding, they're funny, they're interesting, they're engaging and put them in front of
a large audience.
And my fellow citizens of the world, I'm very happy to be here today.
And I got awful because they're nervous.
They start reading from a script and you may think I know a solution to that.
I won't be seen using a paper script.
I'll use a teleprompter.
My fellow Americans, I am happy to be here today at this amazing convention.
We've all seen speakers at political conventions, people who are not full time newscasters trying to
read a teleprompter.
And the result is often disastrous because the teleprompter for those who aren't professionals and who
haven't practiced enough, makes people sound awful because all of a sudden your speed is the same,
your volume is the same, the pausing is the same, the tone is the same, and you sound like a robot.
So when you see people at major trade associations, major conventions, and they're using a teleprompter,
it's often disasters.
They're thinking, oh, I'm scared, I'm nervous.
I'm afraid of what else to say, what not to say.
I know I'll play it safe.
I'll read a teleprompter and some convention organizer trying to be helpful has made this teleprompter
available to them.
And it just makes people worse because it turns them into a robot.
It solves one problem.
I don't remember what to say because I'm scared, but it doesn't solve the bigger problem, which is
I look and sound scared to everyone in the audience and look and sound boring.
That's a huge, huge problem.
So we have to get back to what we're really trying to do, which is come across natural, relaxed,
comfortable, confident and still communicate, actually get people to focus on the message, understand
the message, remember a message so that they can do what we want them to do.
Let's not lose sight of the real goal here.

--- You Will Speak With Perfect Volume, Once You do This ---

My fellow citizens of the world, do you know what another big problem is when you're speaking to large
crowds, that problem is yelling.
That's right, folks yelling now, this day and age, if you're speaking to a crowd of two hundred three
hundred five hundred thousand five thousand in a major convention hall or an outdoor stadium, chances
are you're going to have a microphone, which means you don't have to shout, yell.
And in order to be heard, you can speak in a conversational town.
You can use the full range of your voice.
Here's the problem with yelling.
Nobody likes to be yelled at.
It's irritating to the ear.
It also is a particular type of monotone.
If you yell at the same speed, the same volume.
How does he how consistent it is?
It's annoying.
It's kind of like someone punching and you punching you in the arm.
After a while, it's really going to hurt.
Even if they're not hitting that hard, it's too consistent.
The other problem with giving a speech in front of a large crowd, if you're on any kind of video,
people are watching it later.
If it's on YouTube, if you're going to look angry, upset, that's probably not the image you want
and it's just too hot.
Now, there was a time a long time ago before electricity, before speakers and microphones.
If you were campaigning somewhere, you did have to yell.
You would stand on a stump and all the people out in the cornfield couldn't hear you unless you yelled.
So it makes sense to yell if there's no amplification around.
If you have a family member about to run out in front of a car crossing the street and they are 50 feet
away, it makes sense to yell.
But when you're giving a speech to a large crowd, you want to sound conversational.
You want to sound like you're just talking to one or two people.
And that's what you don't want to yell.
And the hard part is psychologically, you're seeing people a long way away.
So you want to be helpful.
You want to be heard.
So psychologically, if you see someone one, two, three, four hundred feet away, the inclination
is to try to project.
But if you've got a microphone like this one or any place else, you don't have to yell.
So you need to fight the impulse of yelling.
It's one of the biggest detriments to good public speaking in front of a large crowd.

--- Your Eyes Will Never Look Lost ---

Really happy to be here in front of all of you today to tell you about some of the fine art of public
speaking and how you two can look comfortable and confident the whole time.
You see what I'm doing there, the eyes floating like that.
That's unfortunately what happens when people are in front of large crowds.
They may sound comfortable, their body language may be comfortable.
They may have something interesting to say.
But if your eyes are kind of just floating the whole time because you just can't imagine this whole
sea of people, it makes you look nervous.
It makes you look uncomfortable.
Here's what I recommend with the eye contact.
Just pick one spot way out to the left and hold that eye contact for a full thought, just a sentence
or two, then go to another part of the crowd.
Completely different.
Hold your eye contact for a couple of sentences, five, six seconds, then go to another part.
Now, this works.
Even if you're on a stage, a bright light and you can't see the crowd, what you're after is steady
eye contact for a full thought because all the people, the 20 or so people in that area will feel like,
wow, he really spoke to me.
She really spoke to me.
Everyone else seeing you will have the perception that you're supremely confident because your eyes
are not going all over the place.
So whether there's lights on the audience or not, it doesn't matter.
Just randomly pick different spots.
You don't want to be like a water sprinkler going back and forth.
It shouldn't be that consistent.
It should be different places.
But holding the eye contact for a fool thought a couple of sentences do that and you'll look much more
confident in front of a large audience.

--- Pause for Maximum Affect and Impact ---

Here's one thing that is little different about speaking in front of large audiences, the difference
is you need a little more of a pause between your big thoughts.
It takes a while for your sound to simply travel all the way around a large room, regardless of the
number of speakers.
And there occasionally could be an echo.
You help yourself by having a little more of a pause between your thoughts, a little more of a transition
and allows the sound to filter out through the room and allows people to process it.
Part of it is they can't see your lips and your mouth as well as if it were just a room of 20 people
speaking.
There are fewer visual cues, although there may be a big image magnification.
Still, you'll make it easier for people easier to digest if you pause a little longer between thoughts,
between paragraphs, and if you just speak a little bit slower than usual, it's just easier for your
words to flow through the room or through the audience.
So keep that in mind with the speech, especially given that you might be nervous.
And when we're nervous, we tend to speak faster than usual.
So slow it down.
More pauses.

--- Your PowerPoint Will Illuminate, Not Bore ---

PowerPoint slides now you may think I'm reflexively anti PowerPoint, I'm not, but when you are speaking
in front of a really large audience, you have to you absolutely have to follow some very specific rules
when it comes to PowerPoint.
For starters, text bullet points, complete waste of time.
If you're in a room with hundreds, even thousands, ten thousand people watching you.
They do not want to have to stare five hundred feet away to read text.
That is simply not how human beings like to read.
Chances are slim that it's really going to be that visible and easy for people to read.
So my recommendation is, if you're going to use PowerPoint and it's fine to do so, use exclusively
images, pictures to dramatize your key point.
If you've got a whole lot of text data points, complicated financial charts, email it to people in
advance, give them the website at the end where they can download a PDF or a white page.
Do not when you're in front of a large crowd, put up complex graphs that have eight nine different
colors of color coded charts and lines.
People can't differentiate that from a distance, so don't even try.
And people certainly don't want to read a bunch of bullet points from one hundred two hundred three
hundred feet away.
Use images in your PowerPoint slides that you project you want to give people the traditional PowerPoint
is an email a handout later?
Fine.
Be my guest, but don't project it.
It's only going to make you look weak and ineffective.

--- Possible Outcomes ---

In many ways, speaking to a really large audience is the same as speaking to any size audience, even
a small audience, there's always the chance you make a horrible impression.
I hope not.
But there's always that chance.
There's a chance you make no impression, which is what happens to most people.
Most of the time.
There's a chance you make a great impression and there's a chance you make a great impression and you
actually communicate ideas that people understand and remember, that's what I believe your goal should
be.
That's what you should be focusing on.
Your goal can't be all.
I just want to get through this.
That's a defensive negative mentality.
That's like the beginning of your year going to your financial adviser saying, all I care about is
don't lose money.
Well, in that case, stick it in your mattress and hope there's no inflation that'll solve that problem.
That's a horribly negative, negative goal.
It's very low ambitions.
I want you to have high ambitions for this speech because it's a great way of distinguishing you from
competitors, from peers, from others, because most people are too afraid to speak in front of large
crowds.
They'll turn down the opportunity.
Now you've got a chance to shine.
So please, please keep that in mind.
Realize that it's just not that hard to speak in front of a large audience.
But you've got to be focused.

--- You Will Achieve Your Speaking Goals ---

What is the goal of your presentation and your speech, by the way, throughout this whole course,
I'm going to use the term speech, presentation, talk, PowerPoint almost interchangeably.
I really mean, any time you're speaking to two or more people and sometimes even one, and it's not
just idle chit chat, it's not just at the watercooler talking about last night's game, you're trying
to communicate something very specific.
So the first thing you've got to do if you want to be an effective speaker, you've got to have a specific
goal.
It's like that in any other aspect of business or life.
You're not going to succeed unless you have something specific in mind.
It can't be just getting through it alive or not looking like a fool.
That's too low of an ambition.
So you need to have a specific goal in mind.
It could be getting that sale, getting that contract, getting hired, getting budget approval.
What is it you want people to actually do coming up to you afterwards, asking for your car for more
information about your service or your product or your business, getting funding for your startup,
what is your goal?
You need to have a very, very clear sense of exactly what your goal is then, and only then can you
figure out what to say.
OK, so let me just cut right to the chase.
The number one problem every single one of my clients has everywhere in the world.
And I work with people from six continents and every kind of country, every kind of language.
The number one mistake everyone makes is they dump way too much data in their speech.
Their presentation is sort of here's everything I know on this topic.
Here's everything we've done for the last quarter.
Here's every sales figure for every week for the last two years.
Here's a PowerPoint with twenty nine bullet points per slide and it's seventy two slides.
So if you want to just hop right up to the advanced level now and not spend years and years and years
of trial by air, all you have to do with is this one thing, and that is eliminate the massive, massive,
massive amounts of data most people try to convey in their speech.
Here's what I recommend.
Brainstorm on every single message point you would like to convey to this audience, then put it in
priority and narrow it down to the top five.
Now, I'm a big believer that any time you're giving a speech, you should really focus on just five
key ideas, five messages.
Why is that?
It's because I actually test audiences all over the world.
Here's what I found it every time I go to an organization to do a public speaking training or give a
speech in front of a large crowd, I always ask people say, can you think of the best speaker you've
seen in the last year?
That's five years now.
Can you tell me every message point you remember from this fantastic speaker?
Not that they were funny or they walked around the stage a lot, but I want to know, how many messages
do you actually remember from this fantastic speaker?
Now, sometimes I ask this question.
People say, T.J., I don't remember anything, but he was funny.
Sometimes people remember one message occasionally two, sometimes three.
Every once in a while, someone will remember four messages.
And once every six months, someone will remember five messages from the best speaker they've seen that
year or perhaps their lifetime.
Now, all the many years I've asked that question to people, I've never actually had anyone remember
more than five points, five main messages from a speech.
So that's why I urge you to focus on just five points.
Now, interestingly, the very same people I'm training in person who say they can only remember two
or three or four or at most five points, two minutes later, they're getting up to give their speech.
And sure enough, what do they have?
Seven points on the first PowerPoint.
Eighteen points on the second nine points on the third.
And I always said, wait a minute, you just said the best speaker you've seen in your life.
You remember three or four or five points and now you're trying to convey seventy two points in this
presentation.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
To my audience is different.
Our our corporate culture is different now.
It's not.
You just proved it.
You're a part of your corporate culture and you don't.
Remember, more than three, four or five points.
So if you just follow this one tip, you're instantly going to get to a very advanced status as a public
speaker, as a presenter, as a communicator.
And emotionally, it's hard to do because people feel like, gosh, if I don't tell people every single
thing we do, Smithers here might say, I left something out.
Janet might complain that I was a superficial.
Harold over here will complain that his pet project wasn't mentioned.
You know, I better play it safe and just dump all the data until everything and put every point in
there.
And then everybody will think I'm smart.
Now, you know what everyone thinks when you do that?
TJ is really boring now let me just check my email.
That's the only thing people are thinking.
So when you dump data, that's the real sign of a very, very insecure speaker, because what you're
really saying is, I'm afraid people aren't going to like me and think I'm smart.
So I'm going to have to tell everybody everything I know and then they'll respect me.
That is complete, utter nonsense.
Too many people think of a speech as an opportunity to get a giant wheelbarrow and sort of go around
their office for two months, gathering facts, gathering data points, gathering old PowerPoint slides
from other people.
And then it's the day of the speech and they kind of feel that we'll barrel into the conference room
and they just start dumping.
And, wow, look at the time.
There's not much time.
I better speak faster because I get so much data to dump and it simply wears out the audience.
It numbs them.
You're not impressing anybody.
You're not making them feel you're smarter.
All you're doing is boring them.
Let's go back to our initial criteria of what we're trying to accomplish.
We want to look comfortable, confident people understand us, how people remember our message so they
can take the actions they want.
Well, if you've bought people to death in the first few minutes, they're no longer understanding anything
you say.
They're certainly not remembering it because they're not even paying attention.
So how in the world are they going to do what you want them to do if they checked out long ago?
You know what?
You're not even going to accomplish your first goal of looking confident, comfortable, relaxed, because
chances are you're kind of, you know, wedded to a script or you're looking at a bunch of slides.
So you're really not going to accomplish a single goal.
So that's the great irony.
People say, well, I need this PowerPoint with all these bullet points.
By the way, I'm not anti PowerPoint.
I'm a..
A PowerPoint with lots and lots of lots of bullet points.
I'm not using notes.
I am anti having sheets and sheets of paper filled with lots and lots of bullet points.
People say you I need this script as a crutch for me and I try to politely tell them a crutch keeps
you from falling down and hurting yourself.
If you're injured, what you're doing isn't keeping you from falling down.
It's actually causing you to fail.
So don't tell me it's a crutch.
It's really a weight that's bringing down your presentation.
So that's my challenge to you.
And this is your first homework assignment.
You've got to come up with a topic for a speech.
The first thing I want you to do is write in one sentence.
What is it you want your audience to do now?
It's a little bit different.
If you're a student and you're giving just a book report on a classic, it may be what you want to do
is motivate your other students to think this book is so fascinating that they want to go out and read
it.
It doesn't have to be about getting more money or getting a direct sale, but you should think of motivating
your audience to do something.
So in one sentence, I want to know what your goal is for this audience.
I don't mean your goal of I want them to think I'm smart.
Your goal should be something you want your audience to actually do.
Then I want you to write down every message point that you could possibly think of and then put it in
priority and narrow it down to just five.
That is your homework assignment.
Come up with just five message points.
A message point is not a big theme with seventy two points.
A message point is just one idea.
It should be something with one subject, one verb, one object.
It's not a long run on sentence with, however, is flaws.
But it's just one idea.
Don't be greedy.
Focus on one idea at a time and you should have simply I want you to type those up on your computer,
write it on a piece of paper.
But it's critically important you have this degree of clarity because without that you're basically
absolutely destroying your ability to communicate successfully.
You need a roadmap for your presentation.
You can't drive from Los Angeles to New York without GPS and without a road map.
Typically in just follow streets wherever they go, you'll.
Up all sorts of nooks and crannies and just never get anywhere, you need a road map for your presentation,
it needs simplicity.
It's going to be easier for you when you're giving the presentation.
You know who else?
It's going to be easier for your audience.
They need something easy for them to to follow so that your first homework assignment.
Go ahead, do it right now.
Five ideas and you need to eliminate the stuff that is only important to you but isn't important to
your audience.
You need to eliminate the fluff.
You need to eliminate the nose to nose and keep the half to what is it that you absolutely, positively
have to have your audience understanding and remembering.
So do that right now.

--- Your Stories Will Captivate ---

So you've narrowed your key messages down to just five.
That's great, but we can't just tell people here are my five messages.
Got to go after 30 seconds.
It doesn't work like that.
You've got to do everything you can in the time you have with your speech or your presentation to make
those messages not only understood, but remembered.
Now, let me tell you a little secret here.
Now I say it's a secret.
Every book on public speaking says this, and yet nobody ever does it.
So somehow it's a basic concept that doesn't sink through.
You need to have a story for every one of your message.
What's the biggest difference between great speakers and awful ones and average ones is that great speakers
have a story to flesh out every single message point they have.
It's not a luxury.
It's not just open the speech.
It's not the clothes.
Not to be funny.
It's to illustrate the point so the audience can remember it.
Now, here's the other big fact of life.
Everything I mean, every single client I have whose awful is boring, who just does a data dump or
who's just average, they never use stories.
They just go in a straightforward way.
Here's a fact.
Here's a bullet point.
Here's a no.
It's it's straightforward, factual stuff and it's awful.
Nobody remembers it.
And it's not interesting.
Now, there's a lot of confusion about stories people tell me all the time.
Well, T.J., I love stories, but I'm not a natural storyteller or I'm in finance and I'm just giving
the numbers or I'm giving a purely technical speech.
Well, let me disabuse you of those notions.
Right now, there is no such thing as a financial speech or a technical speech or a PowerPoint speech.
Those are all just silly concepts we have in our head when we're giving speeches.
There's only two types of speeches in the entire world.
You know what they are?
That's right.
It's either good or it's bad.
From the standpoint of the audience.
When you are in the audience, you're not thinking, wow, I sure am glad this person is giving me a
formal presentation.
Are this sure is a good financial reason.
Now, that's not what you're thinking of.
The only thing you're thinking of when you're in the audience is this is good.
It's interesting.
It's useful.
I'm going to pay attention or this guy is awful.
It's boring.
It's tedious.
I look at the PowerPoint later.
Meanwhile, let me check up on email from the office.
That's the only thing going on in the minds of your audience.
So great speakers adapt to the mindset of their audience, and that's what you've got to do.
So you've got to figure out what are the ideas you're trying to communicate and now how can you use
every tool to make it come alive?
And the number one tool you have at your disposal is a story.
Now, a story doesn't have to be funny.
It doesn't have to be overly emotional.
The only thing a story is, is you recounting a real conversation you had with a real person about a
real problem in a real place.
What was it, what that person said to you, what you said back, how it was resolved and how you felt
about it?
That's it.
That's all there is to it.
All of us tell stories all the time.
You're stopping off on the way home and you fill up with gas and someone cuts you off and curses at
you.
You don't then go home and tell your spouse at five twenty two.
I left the office at five thirty two.
I pulled into a gas station at five thirty three.
There was a minor altercation and unpleasantries were exchanged at five forty four I left.
I mean that's kind of how most people give speeches.
Boring, straightforward, fat fact.
You're going to say to your spouse, can't believe what happened to me today.
I was pulling into the Exxon and this guy comes in honking, honking.
I'm looking around and he's like, get out of my way, buddy.
And he proceeded to take the gas pump, had put it in as if he owned the I mean, that's how human beings
talk like that, drive a car.
But I think you get my point.
All human beings tell stories all day long.
Now, what's different about a speech is people tell themselves, oh, I'm not giving a formal presentation.
Let me push away all the stories and just stick to the facts and be concise.
Let me tell you right now, your goal in giving a speech is never and I mean never to be concise.
Your goal is to communicate, you can be concise, stand up, sit down after 30 seconds, nobody remembered
anything.
You said you accomplished absolutely nothing.
But maybe you speak for 20 minutes, maybe three hours.
If you're giving people good value, if you're really helping them, if you're doing something to make
their lives better, their jobs better, their bottom line better, they'll listen to you for a long
time.
Now, I'm not saying just go on and on for three hours, but your focus should be on making your ideas
remembered and making sure you have useful ideas, not simply being concise.
That is a false goal that many, many speakers have.
Stories sometimes take a long time.
Maybe you tell a story in 30 seconds.
It's not overly complicated, but if you have a point that you want people to remember, you're better
off giving a story to make it meaningful.
One of the points I'm going to stress in our next lesson is you've really got to practice on video if
you want to see for yourself where you are, what your strengths are, what your weaknesses are and
how to improve.
Now, I've been using video ever since I started 30 years ago, and there was a time when it was difficult.
You had to bring in some production crew and cameras were this big.
These days, everyone surrounded by video cameras.
You've got one in your cell phone, likely iPads, webcams everywhere.
It's really, really cheap.
Now, I remember a time more than a decade ago I was doing my very first training over in Eastern Europe
and I was in a former dictator's palace and it was quite elaborate.
And I wasn't training a dictator.
I was training a popularly elected prime minister of a small Eastern European country.
But I was a little nervous.
It was my first time in that part of the world.
Prime minister has all of his guards, his bodyguards with machine guns around.
We're ready to practice the prime minister's speech.
And he said to me, T.J., do you mind if this first time we practice in my native language, he was
fluent in English?
So do you mind if we practice in my native language?
Sure.
No problem, Mr. Prime Minister.
So he stood up, gave his speech, and he proceeded to do this.
The he basically read his speech.
He asked me what I thought.
I said, well, let's watch the video together.
So we watch the video.
He then said, T.J., what did you think?
I said, I'll tell you what I think.
But first, I want you to tell me exactly what you thought he said.
And I'll tell you I'll tell you why I want to hear your opinion first.
And I thought, wow, this guy was really boring.
It was awful.
And what do I do?
I'm surrounded by armed guards.
I'm in a whole nother place of the world.
I don't know what the situation is.
Some of them look quite menacing.
I tell them the truth.
I thought, you know what?
He's paying me a bunch of money to give him the truth.
I'll tell him the truth.
So I said, Mr. Prime Minister, with all due respect, I don't know what you said, but you bore the
hell out of me.
He looked shocked.
He looked at me.
He looked at all of his armed guards.
He looked back to the TV and then he said, TJ, you're right.
It was boring as hell.
It's awful.
Here's what we got to do.
And this is speech.
It threw it away and we did what I had to do with most of my clients.
We got a clean sheet of paper, we got a pen and we started from scratch.
And we tried to boil it down to just five messages.
And we did the speech again and we kept videotaping it until he could look at it and say, T.J., now
this is a guy I would want to listen to.
OK, so what did I do there?
All I did was tell a story.
Was it funny now?
Was it overly dramatic?
Not really, but it was real.
I mean, that actually happened to me.
And all I'm trying to do is drive home the point that it is important to videotape your practice because
you'll see things that you weren't aware of.
You'll be more aware of your strengths and weaknesses, and it's really the only way to get a sense
of how you're doing.
So it's a simple story and only took a couple of minutes, but it had a character had the prime minister
had a setting.
I'm in a dictator's palace.
Isolated in Eastern Europe, it had a problem.
This guy was giving a really boring solution.
It did have a solution.
He had to look at it and figure out what he didn't like.
And we redid it.
It had a little bit of motion.
It was a little bit nervous about a telling him that being in foreign circumstances.
So it had the elements.
Is that the greatest story ever told?
Now, is it going to win Pulitzer Prize?
No, but it does help people remember that message a little more effectively.
And that's got to be your big problem that you've got to focus on.
How do you get people to remember your ideas?
As I mentioned earlier, the big problem most speakers have is not that they break out and flop sweat.
It's not that they freeze.
It's not even that their PowerPoint stops or breaks that are Balbert breaks.
But that does happen.
The number one problem most speakers have is they stand up, they give their presentation, their ties
straight to their dresses, just straight their hair the way they want it with whatever they have.
And everything goes according to plan.
But then if you walked around the audience or the conference table afterwards with one hundred dollar
bill and put it in front of people and say, you can keep that money, all you have to do is tell me
two ideas that Speaker talked about.
Guess what?
You would never have to give away any money.
That's the real tragedy of most speakers.
Stories are the solution.
When I ask audiences all over the world, what do they remember the most about great speakers?
They remember two things, the passion and the stories.
And they're linked because when people are telling stories, that's when their passion comes out.
So a lot of people have the mistaken notion that, well, I'll fit a story and if there's time and yet
there's no time because they have so many data points.
A story is not a luxury.
It is a fundamental building block of what it takes to communicate effectively.
Now, just as I'm mentioning everything in this video, this whole series of videos, there is a section
in the books that I give you for the homework at the very end of the whole course that will tell you
exactly every one of these elements in the story will give you even more examples of anything I'm talking
about here.
There is a chapter in both of the books that I'm giving you.
So don't worry about writing everything down now.
But the fundamental thing is you've got to have a story.
Examples are also good.
Case studies are good.
All of these things will help your audience.
Remember, that's what's going to make your speech successful or not.
It's not about having perfect eye contact and timber or voice or lowering your voice.
All these things people think matter.
If you have interesting, important, relevant messages and great stories that make it come alive,
you'll be seen as a great speaker, even if your tie is crooked or you have some arms or people forget
all that if you have good, compelling stories.
Now, people ask me all the time, T.J., can I make up stories?
Well, you could, but why would you want to?
That's hard work.
The beauty of a story is you can see it.
I mean, I can see that prime minister there still, even though it's been more than a decade, the
best stories aren't made up.
It's simply you recounting a real conversation you had with the real person.
You can see it.
That makes it not abstract.
Abstraction is your enemy as a speaker, not because the people you're talking to are stupid and don't
understand abstraction.
Abstraction is a problem because without people seeing it, they don't remember it.
Think of it this way.
What's easier for you to remember if you just met someone, their name on a business card or their face?
For most of us, it's the face that's easier to remember, not the name.
That's because you actually visualize a face.
You see a face words on a business card.
Those are just abstractions.
So here's your homework.
You need to come up with a story for each one of the five message points you created in your earlier
homework.
And if you tell me I teach, I don't really have a story for that.
Guess what that means?
It's not an important point.
Now, let's say it's purely a financial presentation if.
Profits are up twenty two percent from last quarter, you could say, well, that's just a number.
There's no story.
There is a story.
What is driving that growth?
What's the one product?
What's the one thing that happened to the economy?
What's the one element of publicity that drove that?
Tell me about a conversation you had with your number one client or your number one salesperson talking
about this new growth engine.
There is a story for anything unless you tell me that the only thing you do all day long is sit back
and read the paper.
And at five o'clock you get an email from your boss saying, good job, go home.
All of us have stories to tell because we all have phone conversations, if nothing else, with a client,
a customer, a colleague who's got a problem and you've got to deal with it.
Those are the stories that will make your presentation come a lot.
So that's your homework right now.
You don't have to write it out word for word, but you need a few words to trigger this memory and use
to think about how you're going to say it.
So now you need to have an outline on a single sheet of paper or a single computer screen, your five
big bullet points, your five main ideas, and then you need two or three words that will trigger in
your own memory a story for each one of your points.
That's your homework.
Go ahead and do it right now.

--- It Is Especially Important to Practice On Video Before Big Audience Gigs ---

OK, folks, now it's time for a really big test, it's a test for me I could flunk and it's also a
test for you.
You could flunk.
Here's the part that you've not been waiting for that you really don't want to hear.
But I'm going to just tell it to you straight now.
You've got to practice your speech and you've got to record it.
You've got to record it on video.
A.J., I don't like looking at myself.
I like my voice.
Too bad and very serious about this.
You can watch all my videos.
You can give me five stars and top rated.
All of that is completely meaningless if I don't motivate you to record your speeches and practice on
video again and again and again.
Everything I do with people, sometimes I work eight hours a day for five days with a client.
The most important part of what I do is getting them to practice on video and watch it.
It's the absolute only way to really get dramatic improvement and to get consistent improvement.
You can't do it by looking at a mirror.
If you practice in a mirror, then if you're a normal human being.
Is my nose crooked?
I did more.
My hair fall out, my getting.
Jeff, you're not focused on giving the speech.
You're looking at your face.
That's not the speech.
The speech is you actually talking to people, conveying your ideas, moving.
It is absolutely imperative, critical that you practice on video.
If you don't do that, there's an excellent chance you're never going to improve.
And I'm sorry right now, but you're frankly wasting your time in this course or any other public speaking
course if you do not videotape yourself.
Now, when I was starting in this business 30 years ago, you maybe had an excuse.
Video cameras were relatively rare, relatively expensive.
Nowadays, you want a video camera, reach in your pocket, pull out your cell phone.
It captures video, most likely, if not a tablet, an iPad, a webcam, a laptop.
I mean, we are all completely surrounded by videos, video cameras these days.
So you have no excuse.
Here's the thing.
By my estimation, far fewer than one percent of people ever do this.
If you want to automatically leap to the top one percent of public speakers, all you have to do is
this one thing.
Practice on video now, but you have to do it in a very, very specific way, because if you practice
your speech on video and you never look at it, didn't do any good.
Complete waste of time.
If you practice your speech on video and then you look at it once and then I hate my voice, this is
awful.
Well, at least I looked at it again.
Complete, utter waste of time.
In fact, that's often worse than wasting time because it likely so reduces your self-confidence, makes
you feel so awful.
You hate your voice.
You hate the fact that your eyes are beating like mine or that you were twitching with a ring on your
finger.
Just watching once doesn't help.
And in fact, it hurts.
You have to go about this in an extraordinarily systematic way.
Give your present ideally have a family member, friend and colleague holding the camera.
But even if it's just you in a hotel room or in your bedroom recording yourself speaking, that's fine
too.
You've got to record yourself, then you have to watch it.
Then what you need is a clean sheet of paper.
Put a line down the middle and write down everything you like, write down everything you don't like
about any aspect of style or substance.
If you notice, for example, you're doing this every three seconds, it's going to strike you as weird,
odd, nervous gesture.
Make a note of that.
However, if you think, well, my speaking voice is pretty good, or at least I'm not rushing.
I like the fact that my head is moving.
Give yourself praise.
Everybody does something well in the sense that they're not making blunders other people make.
Maybe you're not saying, ah, give yourself credit for that, but systematically go through the whole
presentation, write things you like, write things you don't like, and then look at it and you kind
of give the speech again.
This time it's clean sheet of.
Look at it again, did you play with your nose fewer times this day, if you made any progress whatsoever,
write it down.
So if you start it off and the negatives were this high and the strengths were this high, you want
to do it again.
So the negatives come down, the strengths go up, do it again, negatives come down, strengths come
up, keep doing it as many times as it takes until you like what you see.
That's the ultimate way of getting better.
Again, people said, well, I don't want to do that tough.
Let me ask you this.
How often would you dictate a memo to an assistant or just to a voice recorder and tell someone, send
it out to all of our important clients, send it to my teachers who are going to grade me, send it
to the media, send it to all of our customers, to all employees.
Don't spell check it, don't edit it, don't review it.
Don't have legal.
Look at it, investigate this, send it out as is.
How often would you do that?
My guess is never you'd be scared out of your mind to do that because of fear that it would be filled
with errors.
You don't just dictate text and send it out.
You look at it, you run it through spell check, you edit it, you refine it, you perhaps get feedback
from other people.
So by the time you've gone through three or four or five drafts, you can look at it and say, well,
this is fine.
This conveys what I want.
You're not nervous.
You're not thinking it's going to win a Pulitzer Prize for literature, but you're comfortable that
this particular memo, whether it's a press release, a document to a client, conveys what you want
in a clear, easy, understandable way with good grammar and good spelling.
You hit send.
You're not nervous at that point because you have a due diligence process for taking this rough draft,
which you dictated into a final draft of what you're sending.
We understand that instinctively when it comes to text communication, but when it comes to spoken communication,
so many of us say, well, here's the first draft in the last draft and just throw it out there to our
audience or folks, I got to tell you, that's a horrible way of doing it, because the first draft
of most things, what do they call it, a rough draft.
So if you are speaking in front of your intended audience and it's the first time you're actually giving
this presentation, you're throwing your rough draft out to that audience.
Well, no wonder it's awful.
No wonder it's rough.
We don't expect anything else to be great in the first draft.
Why would we expect the speech to be great?
Now, here's what's really happening for most people, especially those in bigger corporations, is
we think of this speech as entirely the PowerPoint presentation or the text.
So we may spend dozens of hours.
We may spend one hundred hours writing and rewriting and rewriting the text on the speech or the text
and the bullet points on the PowerPoint.
Guess what?
A complete, utter waste of time as was actually helping you get prepared to give a great presentation.
Now, certainly, if you want the whole speech written out, you do have to review it and spell check
it.
If you're giving it to people, if you are using PowerPoint with text and I don't recommend using text
on PowerPoint, but if you are, well, certainly you need to get rid of typos and errors.
But for too many people in too many corporations, it becomes a crutch.
I'll get around to rehearsing T.J. on video, but we just got to make these final tweaks on these PowerPoint.
And before you know it, a week has gone by.
It's one a.m. The speech is at eight a.m. and you're still redoing the PowerPoint slides.
So what's happening is you've crowded out on lesser important activities.
You've crowded out what's really important, the time to rehearse.
At some point you've got to say enough is enough with futzing with the PowerPoint or with the script.
We now have to rehearse great speakers realize this.
Ronald Reagan is the great communicator, had a discipline with his speech writing staff.
Now, he would work with his staff for months for a major speech like the State of the Union address.
But he would then force them to give him the final draft a week before the speech was to be delivered.
He would then spend three hours a night practicing out loud, reading the speech in the residency in
the White House.
Now, that wasn't to memorize it because he was still going to use a teleprompter.
He was doing that to build a comfort level, a relationship with the words.
But then he would spend an entire day doing videotape rehearsal with the speech the day of the speech,
again and again and again, looking at it, figuring out what works, what doesn't work.
How about this pause here about this thoughtful look down there.
So it's not an accident.
It's not something you're simply born with.
It comes through practice and hard work, but it comes through a particular type of practice.
If you didn't do any of the homework earlier and you didn't narrow your message down to five and you
didn't have stories and you have just a really boring data dump, well, you can practice giving your
speech again and again and again.
It's still going to be an awful boring data dump.
And if you practice without video, you might still be making the same mistakes again and again, for
example, if I had been giving this entire course to you.
But the entire time.
I've been doing this, I don't think you would really paid attention to anything else, you would have
said, wow, that guy's a complete fraud.
He's talking about how to be comfortable as a speaker.
He seems really nervous in his own skin.
Now, if I didn't look at myself on video, how would I know that I'm doing that?
You cannot know how you're coming across unless you watch yourself.
The camera doesn't love your friends and family can say, hey, great speech, good job.
You're going to knock a bad camera.
Won't do that.
The camera is going to tell you exactly what you're doing now.
This is what scares people.
Sometimes they're afraid of the truth.
They can't handle the truth.
Guess what?
Your audience is going to see the truth people often say will teach you.
I don't want to look at myself.
I hate looking at myself.
Well, you look at yourself all the time in the mirror, right.
How many of you get up in the morning?
You have a really important meeting to go to.
Your bosses there at the board of directors is there.
And you just get up and you don't look in a mirror once you shave, get dressed, put on makeup and
never look at a mirror.
I seriously doubt any of you do that.
If you're like most people, you get up, you look in the mirror and you get out of the shower, you
look in the mirror, you shave or put on makeup, you look in the mirror, you put on clothes, you
look in the mirror.
So by the time you walk out of your house or apartment, when you're walking into your office or into
that conference to give a speech you're no longer worried about, is there jelly stains all over my
mouth?
Is there a coffee stain on my shirt?
You're not worried about that.
You're not wondering about that because you already know how you look.
You've looked in the mirror.
You know how you're coming across now.
You might wish you look better, thinner or something else, but at least you know that you're visually
coming across the way.
You want to come across the best you can come across based on time and resources that you have because
you looked in the mirror numerous times.
It's the exact same thing with speaking.
Although the mirror doesn't help with speaking, the speech is you talking.
The only way to really see what you're getting is by watching video and you have no excuse for doing
a begging you.
I'm pleading with you again.
You've just completely wasted a lot of time.
If you're not, you should have been off watching an episode of Gilligan's Island or some other time
waster rather than spend time in this public speaking course.
If you're not willing to practice on video, it's absolutely the most important part of this process
because you have a lifetime of experience watching speakers.
You already know what's boring.
You already know what you don't like.
You already know what's distracting.
So when you watch a video of yourself and you find yourself doing a boring data dump or going from one
foot to the other or grabbing a lectern like you're scared to death, it's going to be obvious to you
and it's going to motivate you to change, to improve yourself.
Here's the other thing it's going to do if you actually do what I've asked you to do, which is keep
practicing on video until you can look at the video and say, wow, that's a great speaker.
Person's interesting.
The person seems confident.
If I can speak like that person, I'll be a star in my industry.
If you actually practice until you get to that point, something magical happens.
At that point, it becomes impossible to be nervous about public speaking, to be fearful, to be full
of anxiety.
The reason you're nervous if you are before a speech or a presentation is there's a part of you wondering,
I might be awful, I might be boring, I might look stupid.
They might not understand it.
Well, guess what?
All of those things could, in fact, be true.
You won't know until you watch a video of yourself.
Now, back to what I was talking about earlier with the the analogy of the text, the print information,
you're probably not nervous or fearful before sending an email to your boss because you already know
you got rid of the spelling errors.
You get rid of the grammar errors.
It makes sense.
One of your colleagues proofed it.
You're not nervous about that.
What if somebody asked you you're comfortable dinner party and somebody asked you?
How you met your spouse or your significant other.
Probably be hard for you to be nervous about that because you've said it many times, you're comfortable
with it.
It's almost impossible to get nervous if somebody asks you a question like that, if you already know
how you're coming across, you know how you want to say it.
It is exactly the same thing with speeches and presentations, even if you've never given the speech
before to a live audience, if you keep practicing it on video until you like it, it's going to just
fill you with confidence.
You have eliminated most of the problems that affect most speakers.
Now, I could give you a twenty four hour course and go through every single little detail.
Don't play with your finger.
Look people in the eye for a fool thought I can go through all those little things.
But you know what?
You already know what you like and don't like, but you don't know how to apply it to your own speech
until you watch it on video.
So rather than go on and on and on and on, I'd rather free up more time for you to practice your speech,
watch it on video and to do it again and again and again.
Now, some people have problems seeing anything they like with their own presentation.
So you may want to bring in a friend, a colleague, have them critique it, but always start off with
the positive.
Ask them what they liked.
What did you do?
Well, because I've seen this countless times.
Someone does twenty five things right.
But they had some arms and they just fixate on the arms.
And I was like, it's the worst thing in the world.
And they completely ignore all their strengths.
You don't want to do that.
So sometimes it's helpful to bring in a partner.
Family members, if you can avoid it, don't, because family members think they're helping the most
by just telling you what's wrong.
That's not what helps when it comes to the video critique.
You've got to spend equal time strengths, what's working, what's good to do, more of weaknesses,
what to do.
Lessem constantly have to build the strengths.
So before you go to the next lesson, please give your speech right now.
You already have the outline because you have five messages and you have a story for each one or a proper
visual.
And now practice your speech on video.
Keep doing it until you like it.

--- Concluding Thoughts On Speaking to Large Audiences ---

If you've gotten this far and you follow the exercises, as I've suggested, practicing on video, you're
now in great shape, you're ready to give a speech to any size audience.
Could be one hundred thousand.
Ten thousand.
You are absolutely ready.
I do want to leave you with a couple of positive, uplifting thoughts about this whole process.
Here's the thing that a lot of people don't realize about speaking in front of large audiences.
It's actually easier than speaking to small audiences.
Hear me out.
If you're talking to ten colleagues around a conference room and you're conversational and he has some
good examples, maybe you get up and you walk around and point out something on the whiteboard.
Big deal.
Everyone can do that.
Everyone does that.
Anyone can do that.
You don't really get any brownie points for that.
But if you do exactly the same thing in front of hundreds of people or a thousand people, your very
same peers who thought nothing of you doing it in front of nine other people will look at you and say,
wow, I couldn't do that.
I didn't know he had it in him.
I didn't know she had it in him.
Wow.
Did you see that person?
Come on the stage?
You get credit for doing something that everyone else does all the time, just talking.
Now, here's the other funny thing.
Simply walking across the stage and talking when you're in front of a large group is perceived as a
difficult thing.
Wow.
Look at that.
He walked across the stage so commanding like a professional speaker, I would be scared.
I would want to stand behind the lectern with my notes next to that computer.
That is, unfortunately, what happens to a lot of people when they are in the audience.
Or fortunate for you, they perceive what you're doing is difficult, is challenging.
All you're doing is walking and talking.
So I urge you take every opportunity you can to speak in front of large groups.
It just gets easier.
You just get better.
Good luck.

--- The Secret to Introducing Yourself ---

We've all been there, that trade association meeting, that Chamber of Commerce meeting, where the
host says, OK, before we start, let's all stand up and just introduce ourselves for 30 seconds.
It seems simple.
It seems casual.
No one's asking you to give a big keynote speech.
And still, our heart is racing over the oyster.
So we're not even listening to the other people.
We're thinking about what to say.
Now, if you've ever experienced that, you know exactly what I'm talking about.
Here are the reality.
When it comes to simple introductions, speeches, there's three possible outcomes for every single
introduction speech you give to yourself.
Number one, you make an awful impression.
Your stammering, your tongue tied.
You can't say anything.
You're pal, I'm so nervous.
You say something stupid, inarticulate.
That happens every once in a while.
I can think of maybe three times in my life, but that's pretty rare.
Chances are that you're really not going to do that.
The second option is you say something.
It's interesting.
It's memorable.
People want to come up to you afterwards, introduce themselves to you, give you their card.
That's great.
That's an ideal scenario.
That also doesn't happen very often.
But that's what you're going to learn how to do after we finish this course.
The third option is you stand up.
Hello, my name is bla bla bla bla bla bla.
Company we do ba ba ba ba ba ba.
And then you sit down and the result is nobody remembers anything.
You don't remember your name, they don't remember the name of your law firm or your company or your
organization and they don't remember what you do.
You just sounded like Charlie Brown's teacher.
I want want want one.
It's all generic stuff.
That's the real danger for most of us.
It's lost opportunity.
It's not that we give a bad impression or horrible pressure.
People see our hands shaking.
The real danger is we make no impression at all.
We've taken time away from our family, friends, other activities to go across town to some meeting,
possibly two, possibly three hours out of your evening or day or lunchtime to meet people, to try
to advance our organization, make new contacts, and we blew it.
That's just not a good idea.
So I'm going to teach you exactly how to do this.
And this is a brief course since we only have to prepare a thirty second speech.
But make no mistake about it, this is a speech.
That's why you're nervous about it or uncomfortable with it.
Public speaking is the number one fear people have.
So standing up, even sitting down in a chair in a circle with eight other people, introducing yourself
is a type of public speaking.
That's why people get nervous.
That's why we need a plan.
That's why we need to rehearse.
And that's what we're going to do right now.

--- You Will Avoid doing These Things At All Costs ---

So here's how I would introduce myself if I were introducing myself the way most people introduce themselves
at networking events and professional associations.
Hi, I'm TJ Walker.
I'm president of Media Training Worldwide.
I founded the company and started training in nineteen eighty four.
And I provide a whole array of professional training services, including public speaking, media training,
crisis communications.
I've written numerous books on the subject and I really appreciate being here today and meeting all
of you.
That's how most people introduce themselves.
And you know what?
It's awful.
It's boring.
What's wrong with the way I introduce myself there?
Well, I started off and everything I said is about me and it was boring.
I started out with my name.
Well, nobody at this stage of the relationship cares about my name.
They don't care about your name either.
I gave my title.
No one really cares about title.
I talked about me, me, me, me, when I started my firm way back.
Why in the world do I think anyone would care about that?
It's boring.
It's unmemorable.
Now, if I gave an introduction just like that, nobody would be thinking, wow, that guy is awful.
That's horrible.
That's boring.
Wow.
He seemed rude.
I don't think it would generate that sort of reaction.
The reaction it would generate is to thinking about what I'm going to say next.
I don't even know what this guy it would it would create a response of nothing.
And that's our real danger here, folks.
Our danger is not breaking out with flop, sweat, fainting and having to be carted out of the room.
The real danger we have when we're coming up with our introduction speech is that it's just so boring.
Nobody remembers it even two seconds later and no one has a reason to come meet you.
So that's it.
You don't want.
In a moment, I'm going to tell you the right way.
I'm going to demonstrate the right way.
But I need you to have a firm mental image of what not to do.
Don't start with your name, your rank, your title, the history of your company and an abstract list
of services.
That's what most people do.
I can tell you how many times I've been to a Chamber of Commerce event or other networking event and
some lawyer will stand up.
My name is this name.
My firm is them and do it how and blah, blah, blah.
We do all the array of services of litigation, civil, criminal.
And it sounds exactly like every single lawyer you've ever heard talking about a midsize or large firm.
There's absolutely no differentiation there.
Nothing interesting.
It's all generic.
Generic is your enemy.
When you're introducing yourself, people don't remember it.
And let's clarify your goal again is not to get through the introduction.
Your goal is not to embarrass people or embarrass yourself in the introduction.
Your goal is to have people remember something about you, have something to talk about later, have
a reason to come up to you, give you their car to start a conversation.
That is the goal of a self introduction.
So let's be very clear on that.
So keep in mind what not to do.
I'm going to tell you what to do in just a moment.

--- This Is The Right Way for You ---

So I've showed you the wrong way of introducing yourself, let me demonstrate not the perfect way.
There's a lot of different ways you can do it.
But let me introduce to you how I introduce myself.
So person next to me has just sat down.
It's now my turn.
Here's how I would do it.
Imagine The New York Times calls you today and wants to interview you about your business and they talk
to you for 20 minutes.
Are you absolutely confident that the one or two quotes you're going to get tomorrow are going to make
you look good and are what you want?
Hi, I'm T.J. Walker, and I teach people how to speak to the media to get the results that they want.
If you give me a business card at the end of the meeting, I will give you a free copy of my book Media
Training A to Z.
That's it.
That is how I introduce myself if I'm at a typical business meeting, speakers conference, trade association
or Chamber of Commerce and everyone is asked to go around and twenty or thirty seconds to introduce
themselves.
Now is that spellbinding oratory?
And everyone is going to go, wow, he's the best speaker ever.
No, but there are a number of things about that introduction, that work that work for me and can work
for you.
For starters, I didn't start with my name me, me, me, me.
I started by the way, that whole introduction was less than 30 seconds.
You can go back in time.
And right now it wasn't long.
But I didn't start with the obvious by saying my name because everybody starts with their name.
Instead, I focused on the audience.
So imagine you were called by The New York Times today.
People can visualize that to talk about your business.
I'm talking about the audience, not me.
Basic type of public speaking.
Any time you talk about your audience rather than yourself, you're winning.
People care about themselves more than they care about you, the speaker.
So that's the first principle.
I talked about the audience.
I introduced a problem that actually created a little emotion.
It's nerve wracking to think, wow, the New York Times is calling me.
They're talking to me.
What are those quotes going to be?
Oh, my gosh.
I don't want to look like a fool.
Anyone has ever been interviewed has had that experience where you don't really know what quotes are
going to go in the story.
So I introduced a problem, a problem that people could relate to and likely had some emotion surrounding,
because whether it's happened to them, it's happened to a close friend, family member, a colleague
at work where there was an interview.
They weren't quite sure how it would turn out.
So I talk about them.
They introduce a problem.
It has a particular setting situation, a conflict involved that they have feelings about.
But then I introduce the solution.
I teach people how to solve that problem, to get the quotes they want in the story.
And then I have a very specific solution.
I will give you my book Media Training, A Tizzy at no charge.
So I've introduced the problem, I've introduced the solution, and I've introduced a solution that
cost nothing.
I'm not asking them to whip out a checkbook or a credit card.
So I don't seem self-serving.
And now I've given people an excuse to come up to me.
Hi, T.J..
Nice to meet you.
Here's my card.
Love to take a look at that book.
So now we have a conversation.
They remember what I do.
Again, if you remember from our first lecture, I said the biggest challenge when you're introducing
yourself is getting people to remember anything about what it is you do.
Now, this works for me.
I'm not saying you have to say it exactly like I do, but the basic formula of focus on any people have
and how you solve it, rather in the specific format rather than saying something.
I'm a communications consultant.
I help people with all aspects of communication training.
That's how I could have set it abstract, boring.
But by giving a particular example of Imagine you are called today by The New York Times, they're interviewing
you about your business.
That's not abstract.
People can visualize it.
They can taste it.
They can touch it.
So if you're an employment lawyer to just stand up and say, I'm with the firm of blank, blank, blank,
and we have people of all aspects of of employment law, boring and abstract.
Instead, to stand up and say, what if you walked in tomorrow and your most troublesome employee was
gone?
But there was a note saying, I'll see you in court, how would you feel?
Well, that gets people's attention.
Then mention your name and how you help people solve those employment issues.
That would get a lot more attention.
Now, I don't want to sound like it always has to be dramatic or cheesy or anything artificial, but
the basic focus is how do you help people in a specific manner?
That's the first part.
That's the hook.
The second part is giving people something of value.
I realize not everyone is a writer, but I do think if you try hard, you should be able to come up
with something that's useful.
It could be top 10 tips for reducing your your taxes if you are a small business owner working from
home.
If you're at a local Chamber of Commerce event, specifically for small businesses, you could put together
a one pager with quick tips if you are a CPA.
And that might be something that people would then come up to you and say, yeah, I would like that.
Can you send it to me?
It starts a conversation and starts connecting you with substance with this other person rather than
here's just another generic face getting it over the cheese plate and the bar.
What did this person do again?
So that's my recommendation to you.
Figure out how you can talk about what you do through the eyes of someone in the audience, the hook,
the second part, what is an easy way and unthreatened, non-threatening way for people to come up to
you?
If it's just if you have any questions about how you can keep from being sued for sexual harassment,
because that might be too intimidating people to come up and ask you for questions.
The beauty of having some product video.
And by the way, all these products are virtual.
I'm not lugging around a big stack of books with me.
I'm emailing people a PDF, a digital version of the book, so there's no extra cost for me.
So that's what I recommend you do, come up with something, a video, an online course like this one
could be a perfect giveaway, but it could be as simple as a top 10 list to put on your refrigerator
of how to reduce your recycling waste.
If you want to eat something simple and focused that is perceived to have some value where people don't
have to talk to you for a long time, just, hey, that thing you mentioned about giving away, I'm
interested.
Send it to me now.
You've got there.
I'm not suggesting you spam them forever and be sending them emails all the time, but it just it helps
of the connection.
You can ask more about what they do.
You can see if this is a good possible business connection, cultural connection, personal connection.
So that's my challenge for you.
Now, I want you to come up with an introduction for yourself where you're talking about the audience
asking them to imagine something in their life and how you solve it.
And then I want you to think about something you can give them.
So think about that right now.

--- Here is the Single Most Important Thing to Do - 1st Video Rehearsal ---

OK, I've been easy on you so far.
Now is the part you're not going to like, but it's the most important part of this entire course.
I need you to grab your cell phone or any other video camera, and I need you to practice your introduction
right now.
And you've got a captured on video.
I know you don't want I don't like my voice, T.J., and my hairstyle, guess what, everyone in that
room that you're introducing yourself to has to hear your voice.
They have to see your face.
So you're not hiding anything with them.
You're only hiding from yourself.
So you've got to bite the bullet.
You've got to nobody likes to do this.
Nobody likes the sound of their own voice.
It's the only way to be supremely confident when you're introducing yourself.
It's the only way to know if you're being too smart or if you're playing with your ring finger or if
you're rocking back and forth, you've got to do it on video.
So no more dithering.
Do not fast forward the video to the next lesson.
Don't just sort of kick back and scan.
This course is a complete, utter waste of time.
If you don't follow this step, in fact, cancel and ask for your money back, it's not going to be
worth your while unless you do this one step.
So record yourself on video.
It could be with a webcam, could be an iPad, could be on a cell phone, but not just audio, not to
the mere complete waste of time, not to your dog, but on video.
And then I need you to watch it and I need you to figure out what do you like, make a list, what do
you not like and make a list.
Do that right now.
It's the most important exercise in the entire course.

--- Friend Feedback ---

If you've done what I've asked, you should be feeling pretty comfortable now, fairly confident about
your introduction, your ability to introduce yourself in front of small groups or large groups.
Now, let's do one more test.
I want you to take that best video that you made of yourself, and I want you to email it to several
friends, but I want you to do it in a particular way.
I want you to call a friend, email it to the right then and say, hey, Bill or hey, Sandy, I just
emailed you.
Can you take a quick look?
I just need your feedback.
It's only 30 seconds long.
Ideally, they're at a computer, they're at a desktop or someplace where they can actually click on
it, watch it, hear it while you're on the phone.
And then right after they've heard it and you can hear it coming through the phone, ask them, how
is one of you?
Give me some feedback.
What did you like about that?
What do you remember about it?
See what they say?
And if they just say, oh, you know, everything's professional, that's great.
Means we probably didn't say something interesting.
You want them talking about the specific thing.
You mentioned the hook.
You also want them say, well, you seem relaxed, comfortable.
Ideally, you have them comment that they didn't even know you had that special report or that book
or that special white paper you're giving away.
They like it themselves.
I would also ask if there's anything they don't like, if they say, well, you seem scared or that
the product you give me sounds really cheesy.
It sounds like an infomercial.
Listen to them.
Doesn't mean I would change everything just based on what one person says.
But here's my challenge to you.
I want you to call five people, try to talk to at least three.
Let's get some independent verification.
You already feel good about your introduction because you've watched it.
You practiced it and watched it to the point where you like it.
But if you have independent verification from others telling you what the message is that they get it,
that they like it, you're coming across well, that's going to further boost your confidence and you're
going to be fantastic the next time you have to introduce yourself.
But there's also a possibility that you are missing something that you're using an acronym or initial.
And this is this is frankly a big problem with a lot of associations.
Hi, I'm TJ Walker, SEECP, and I'm about well, No.
One outside the couple of thousand members of the Professional Speakers Association.
No, what SEECP is and it's just confusing my advice other than M.D. or JD, I wouldn't use any initials
when introducing yourself, but I wouldn't even use those initials.
By the way, I'm not a kesby.
I don't want anyone thinking I'm inflating credentials here.
So I want you to call five friends, associates, colleagues, send them the video, ask them to watch
it right.
Then you want the immediate feedback, their immediate response.
Do that right now.

--- Your Future Great Introductions ---

So what did your friend say?
Did they like your introduction?
Were they able to tell you exactly what you were hoping they would do?
They ask you for that free item, that special report, that white paper, whatever it was that you're
giving away, did they ask you for that?
Now you may decide not to do it.
Give away.
My main goal for you is that you give people a reason to come up and talk to you, that you make them
remember something interesting about you.
So if they see you later at the cocktail hour or over at the snack bar, they can reference something
you said in the introduction.
And this can start a conversation.
Let's not forget, nobody is going to make a million dollar deal or get ten million dollar contract
by a 10 second introduction or a 30 second introduction.
That's not what it's about.
What it is about is helping you make the most of every opportunity you have to meet people to bring
more people into your life, whether you're after more clients, more prospects, more colleagues,
more industry associates, more people to raise money from, more people to give back to you want to
connect with could be completely for social reasons, too.
So I'm not passing judgment on any of the reasons why you want to meet people.
I'm simply trying to make it more effective, more efficient use of time.
Let's face it, myself included.
We've all been to networking events before and may be left with a stack of cards.
My people are walking around here.
Here's my card, here's my card.
Complete waste of time.
And what do you do to someone like that?
You typically throw away their card.
But we've also been to events and you've talked to a few people, but it's just sort of ho hum how what
do you do?
And you can leave the event sort of scratching your head.
Why do I even bother doing that?
How many of these people, business cards am I even can remember anything about them?
Why would I even follow up with them?
Why not just throw it away in the trash can on the way out of the event?
We've all been there.
Ladies and gentlemen.
What I'm trying to do is to equip you so that you can get a lot more out of every single time you go
to the event, every single time you introduce yourself.
As I said at the very beginning, it's an opportunity to make a bad impression, which you no longer
are going to do.
It's a chance to make no impression, which, in my opinion, is what happens to ninety nine percent
of the world or it's a chance to make a great impression and to attract people to you.
That's what you want every single time you speak it.
Obviously, if you're going to an entrepreneurial event and there's entrepreneurs pitching for money
and you introduce yourself as a venture capitalist looking to invest, well, you can be the worst introducer
in the world and you're going to be surrounded.
You're going to be mobbed by all of the young investors and investors of every age coming to you.
But most of the time, for most people, it's not going to be that easy of just like dangling, know,
raw meat in front of a wild animal the way venture capitalists would be to investors.
So that's why it's important to really think about this, not memorize, but to think about it.
Let me end with a note on memorization.
Memorization is No.
One hard to do.
Number two, it's even harder to do when you're feeling stress.
So standing up in front of twelve people introducing yourself might not seem as scary as standing in
front of twelve thousand people, but it still takes most people out of their comfort zone.
And when you're feeling nervous, that's why your palms are sweaty, your feet are sweaty, your body's
telling you, run, get out of here, adrenalin is flowing.
When that happens, your mental faculties shut down because your body is saying run.
Don't think that's one reason why I really recommend not memorizing your self introduction.
The other problem with memorizing something is you're now like an actor on Broadway memorizing and delivering
a script.
Well, here's the thing about acting.
It's really hard.
We can make fun of dumb actors all we want.
It's a really hard skill.
I can't do it.
Someone gives me a script to memorize.
I'm awful at that because it's hard to remember.
If you do remember it, word for word, it's hard to deliver it without sounding like you are reading
a canned speech or you have memorized something.
So don't do it.
Focus on the idea you want to communicate.
I just talked it through in a conversational way.
Don't memorize, that's extra work, that's extra stress, what I'm trying to do is relieve stress for
you on every aspect of this.
And you know what?
When you're in these meetings now, instead of worrying and think, oh, there's three people away,
for me, it's going to be my turn.
What am I going to say?
You can actually listen to this person over here about what they do, what they have to offer and why
you may want to go up and talk to that person afterwards.
That's the other beauty of this is if you plan and you have a process and you're all set, you're not
going to be sweating it, waiting for your turn to introduce yourself.
You could actually be present.
I hate to sound all new agey, but you can be in the moment actually listening to other people instead
of thinking in yourself, oh, now it's going to be my turn.
What am I going to say?
I hate this.
I hate hate you don't hate you.
So hate introducing yourself anymore because you're now good at it.
The number one way to get over hating anything or feeling nervous about it is to actually get good at
it.
And now, since you followed the lessons in this course, you are good at introducing yourself.
So I wish you luck in all your future introductions.
I'm also asking you begging you in the discussion forum right here in this class, please, please record
a video of yourself introducing yourself.
I would love to know who you are and I would love to hear how you're introducing yourself.
I'm T.J. Walker.
Thanks for spending this time with me.
And I look forward to meeting you.

--- What Makes a TED Talk ---

So you want to be a TED speaker?
For starters, let's figure out what actually is a TED speaker.
It's really just someone who gives a speech or a presentation.
That's interesting when you think about it, because after all, most speakers in the world at most
conventions, at most conferences, the lecture halls of most universities are boring.
They're way too long.
They're way too boring and nobody remembers anything.
Now, this course is going to go into a lot of very specific details of things that most TED presentations
have.
But before you get into the specifics of how this exact 17 minutes or this walking around the stage,
you've got to really step back and ask yourself, do you have something interesting to say?
It can't just be a really good sales pitch on why to buy my paper for your copy machine.
Now, if you've got some way of creating paper out of trees and it doesn't chop down trees and it solves
the energy crisis and it's completely biodegradable in a way that doesn't cause any landfill problem,
well, then maybe you have the elements of a TED speech, but simply by my product, because it delivers
a greater value.
That's not a TED speech.
Ideas worth spreading.
That's the slogan.
They do take it very, very seriously.
One of the reasons Ted is successful as an organization is they have the discipline to say no, because
most trade associations, most conferences all over the world, they let people speak because they have
political influence or because of their stature in the industry or because they underwrite it or their
sponsors or because they have high name I.D. or because they're famous.
All sorts of reasons people get invited to give speeches at organizations.
Ted, is different.
If you can't actually deliver an interesting speech and deliver it, well, they don't care who you
are.
You're not going to speak because of that.
They have a better brand, a better reputation than, frankly, anyone I can think of when it comes
to a forum just for speakers.
If you're like me, you probably watch a lot of TED speeches because it's frankly more interesting than
what you see on regular television.
And you can watch it on your smart TV, on your cell phone, on your tablet and anywhere.
And even if it's not a topic that you're fascinated by, you always learn one thing.
There's always something compelling.
There's something that kind of changes your thought process.
And it never goes on and on and on too long.
You know, it's going to be for a set amount of time and it's typically going to be less than 20 minutes.
That's the beauty of it.
So if you want to be a TED speaker, you've got to first step back and ask yourself, do you really
have something that's genuinely interesting?
Do you have something that is an idea worth spreading?
If you don't have that, you can still be a great public speaker.
You can be a great sales presenter.
You can be a good spokesperson.
You can be a good CEO.
You might not be a good candidate to speak at Ted.
So that's the first thing you've got to do, is really step back and ask yourself, do you fundamentally
have an idea worth spreading?

--- Passion for an Idea Worth Spreading ---

Do you have a great idea that the world absolutely must know about and have a huge passion for sharing
it, if you don't have both of those things, you're probably not going to be invited to speak at Ted.
Now, I know this is a course on how to speak at Ted, but I would caution you, I really don't think
it's particularly productive to just sit down and say, you know, I want to write a speech for Ted
today because I think it would be prestigious.
It would make me look cool.
It would make my friends think I'm smart if I spoke at Ted.
That's not the attitude to have.
If you look at most of the speakers who speak at TED, they have been speaking on this subject for years
and years and years to a wide variety of audiences, anyone who will listen to them.
Al Gore has spoken to Ted many times, but he gave his speech on the environment thousands of times
before he ever addressed a TED audience.
And he may get two hundred thousand dollars a speech when he gives that talk now.
But for years and years and years, he gave that presentation for free.
So I would ask you to really step back a minute rather than thinking so much about I want to prepare
this TED talk.
Think about the subject you have the ideas you have that you really have a passion for.
Ask yourself if you absolutely knew you would never, ever, ever be able to speak at Ted, would you
still want to speak on the subject?
If the answer is maybe not, then you shouldn't waste your time anymore.
You're not a good candidate for speaking at Ted.
I can't watch the people who speak at TED do some research on them, check them out on YouTube.
Quite often you're going to find very similar speeches they've given, sometimes much longer, but similar
speeches on the same topic hundreds of times in other venues.
And you can see they've been speaking on this subject for a long, long time.
You've got to have, for starters, a subject and you've got to have some expertise.
It doesn't mean you have to be a Ph.D. and a professor from Harvard, but you have to have something
where you're living in this world.
This is not a high school debate class where you just arbitrarily pick a topic of euthanasia for it
or against.
It's not like that.
Ted does an excellent job of weeding out people who are just looking for something to put on their resume
that they spoke at.
Ted, they are looking for people who have spent years, sometimes decades, sometimes a lifetime,
completely immersed in a particular subject, a particular issue.
Does it matter if it's creating new formats of distributing music or if it's creating low cost housing?
They want people who live in that world who are true experts, who are speaking on it, but are doing
it and are living it.
So you've got to find out what that is.
Now, you should not have to spend a lot of time going to the Internet, figuring out what you spend
time on.
You should know what you spend time on every day for the last year, half a dozen years or even decades.
That's what you need to pull from.
Speak from your experience.
Of course, it's nice to put in new research that changes your thinking.
And a good TED speech does have an element of surprise.
A great TED speech will have a way of shifting your thinking about a particular subject.
For example, one of their recent speakers talked about how her whole life she advised people to minimise
stress, get rid of stress.
Stress is a killer, but she did more research and found out that particular types of stress and your
attitudes towards stress are what's important.
If you have a good attitude towards stress and you see it as a challenge that can help you reach your
goals, it actually doesn't hurt your health at all.
It can enhance your life and enhance your health.
So look for something where even if you've worked in a subject area for 10, 20, 30 years, you've
learned you've changed.
There's something new and that's what excites you.
Now, Anthony Robbins has spoken at Ted.
He's not the main person.
I want to be your role model because he's somewhat out of the norm.
But again, he's someone who's been speaking his whole life.
Whether you love him or hate him, I don't think anyone can deny he has a real passion for his particular
brand of personal improvement, personal development.
And whether Ted ever invited him or not would have no impact on how he spends his life and the fact
that he's speaking often hundreds of times a year.
And he had to change his form.
He's used to speaking for three days.
He had to speak for seventeen or so minutes.
So the.
A lot of different types of speakers, but the one thing you do see is people have a passion.
Now they're not all gung ho and high energy like Anthony Robbins.
Sometimes people are very restrained and don't even move their feet at all.
But you can tell they really, really care about this.
It could be about something of truly global significance of how to minimize war, or it could be, as
one TED speaker did, devote an entire presentation on how to tie your shoes more effectively by doing
one thing the opposite way.
There's all types of good speakers out there, but there's always something to change your way of thinking
where you feel like you learn something interesting and quite often useful.
So you've got to figure out what that topic is.
What is it that you're already living in that you're already an expert on, that you have a true passion
for?
That's where your topic has to come from, not by glomming on to some hot topic of the day.

--- Plan Your Visuals ---

If you're going to have a great TED speech, you need to think of the visuals now, Ted is very different
from most conferences and they simply have no tolerance for awful boring visuals.
You cannot go to them and say, here's my PowerPoint deck of 30 slides and 12 bullet points on each
slide with the people that Ted know is that audiences around the world do not really enjoy watching
someone speak and then having to read a bunch of text up on the slide, whether they are in person in
the room where the speech is given or watching later online on YouTube or at the TED site.
What they understand is people like visual.
So if you're going to use visuals, that needs to be a picture, an image.
It could be something you actually hold up.
It could be a prop.
If you're going to use visuals, don't be lazy.
The laziest thing in the world to do is to just type a bunch of bullet points, text.
It won't cut it for Ted and frankly, it won't cut it anywhere.
If you really want audiences to understand you and remember you, text is boring.
If you want people to read, give them a book, email them later.
Don't just give them a bunch of stuff up on a slide so you don't have to have visuals for your TED presentation.
Do keep that in mind.
Your ideas need to stand on their own.
Your stories need to paint pictures and your audience's mind.
And it could be just the background that they have for the particular form that day and the staging
that works for you.
You don't have to have visuals, but the question to ask is not whether you need visuals.
No one cares about you.
The speaker.
The question is, do you have some visuals that will help your audience understand the concept better?
Remember the concept better.
When Al Gore is talking about global warming, he's showing a picture.
Here's what the glacier looked like 30 years ago.
Here's what it looks like today.
One's covered with a lot of snow and ice.
One has a lot of green on it.
The visuals make his point and a much more powerful way than simply putting statistics of ice cap melting
two percent a year.
You've got to have visuals that make your case in a way that people can look at it, see it, understand
it.
So the rule of thumb for any visual, does it make your audience understand your point better than you're
saying it?
Does it make them remember it better than you saying it?
If you can't say yes to both their lousy visuals, get rid of them.
But put some real thought into this.
The folks at TED do a fantastic job of staging, of lighting the opening sound effects.
They're making this thing look like a slick production.
And this could be the one time you speak in your entire life where more than a million people see it.
So it doesn't have to be Hollywood special effects.
In fact, I would avoid anything with special effects unless you're speaking on new developments and
special effects.
But come up with that right.
Picture a graph that's really, really simple and focuses on just one idea and perhaps no more than
two variables could do the trick.
Think about your visuals and make sure it helps your audience do that.
You'll be in good shape.

--- Timing is Everything ---

For many speakers, even great speakers, one of the biggest challenges of speaking at TED is the length.
Now they've changed the link requirements over the year.
Currently, as this has produced, the maximum length of a speech at TED is 18 minutes.
A lot of people have trouble with that.
They're used to speaking for a full hour or two hours or a training for a day.
So part of what you have to do if you're going to be a dead speaker is you've got to have the discipline
of figuring out what's most important and what you can deliver in 18 minutes because you can't just
speak faster.
That's not going to cut it.
You can't cram more facts into a PowerPoint slide because it's highly unlikely they're going to let
you use a PowerPoint slide.
And if they did let you, you wouldn't want to, because that's a horrible way to run a presentation.
You've got to make the most with the time you have.
If Lincoln In is getting Oxburgh, address can make one of the most memorable speeches ever in just
a couple of minutes or two, three minutes, then you need to be able to figure out how to communicate
in 18 minutes.
Now, sometimes they have even greater restrictions on time.
They may tell you your maximum is 14 minutes.
It could be even less.
Don't complain, don't whine.
Don't say yes and think, well, once I get up there, they won't pull me off.
It doesn't work like that.
You need to plan accordingly.
And what that means is you have to be a better editor.
As Mark Twain once said.
I'm sorry.
I wrote you a long letter.
I didn't have time to write you a short letter.
It's actually harder for most people to give a good 18 minute speech than it is to give an hour speech
for an hour.
You could be less disciplined.
You could sort of meander around.
You can kind of go with the flow.
You can be inspired 18 minutes.
You've got to have a plan and you've got to stick with that plan.
And that means you don't have extra time.
Now, here's the thing.
Some of you think, well, eighteen minutes, I've done that.
Here's my speech.
I read it silently and it was only seventeen and a half minutes.
I'm in good shape now.
People read silently much faster than they read out loud and you read much faster out loud to yourself
in a room standing in one place than you do when you were walking around, pausing and looking at people.
So in order to get your time right, you're going to have to practice your speech in front of live audiences.
And if you're just practicing with yourself or one or two colleagues, if you're trying to hit that
18 minute mark, I wouldn't go more than about sixteen and a half minutes.
If you're practicing in a small room with just one person, because it will take you more time, you'll
pause more when you're giving the actual speech, you're in a large room, you pause, you need that
pause to sort of drift out across the room and let people reflect on what you've said.
You had a really important point.
Are you ask a rhetorical question.
Your pause will be longer in a larger room.
So we'll take you more time to give your speech.
Ted takes this very seriously and I commend them for it.
There are a lot of people in the world who have good stuff, have good content, but they just go on
and on and on and on forever.
And Ted does not really want to have someone with a big stick or a Kaneda jerk you off after thirty
minutes.
So they do it a really good job of managing expectations before you get on that stage.
When they say eighteen minutes, they mean it.
If they give you less time than that, they mean it.
That means more preparation on your side.
It means more rehearsal, it means more editing.
I don't mean you have to memorize every single thing and know where you are by the second as your speech
is progressing.
But you are going to have to take certain message points out.
You are going to have to remove certain stories that maybe people love.
When you give your speech normally for forty five minutes or an hour, you've got to really give people
your best stuff.
Now, the way to figure out what that is quite often is to speak regularly and ask every audience you
ever speak to.
What did you like about my speech?
What did you like about my presentation?
This is a tip all great speakers do, and that is after you've given a speech, it could be at a university,
a conference, a meeting.
If you're talking to more than ten people, someone's likely to walk up to you and say, hey, great
speech today.
Don't just say.
Thanks a lot, glad you enjoyed it and walk off, say thank you.
Tell me, what do you remember what stood out?
I do that all the time.
And if someone says, well, T.J., your speech was just great, it was fantastic.
You're full of energy and passion.
You're a real pro.
If someone tells me that, then I know my speech was a complete, utter failure.
I don't want people commenting on my style.
I want them remembering the very, very specific message points.
I want them remembering those stories because that's what sticks with people.
The fact that they thought you were a professional or you didn't seem nervous, who cares about that?
You've got to get your audience to remember your key idea.
So what great speakers do is they use every single speech as a mini focus group, the audience from
that speech to make their next speech a little bit better.
So let's say you have a topic that you speak on quite often and you normally speak for an hour.
If you give that speech a dozen times a year and you consistently ask people, what do they remember,
there's probably going to be a huge overlap on a couple of stories or a couple of points.
That's what you're going to use for your TED talk when you're giving your TED talk.
That's not the time to try new stuff.
This is not amateur hour.
Those of you old enough to remember you get on Ed Sullivan.
That's not the time you try a new song for the first time.
That's the time you play your absolute best song that you've played and you've rehearsed.
And, you know, it's great you want to give your best stuff out because your audience could be huge.
No, not every TED speech is a huge audience winner, but there are a lot of TED speakers on arcane
subjects who have a million views on their YouTube channel alone.
That doesn't count all the other places.
The speech may show up.
So it could be the largest audience of your life, even if you're on TV a lot, it could be the largest
audience really listening to you for a sustained period of time and not just a soundbite on the evening
news that may have millions of views.
So that's why it's important to really make sure you have your best stuff and you're essentially the
producer of the show.
Yes, Ted is the producer, but you're a part of this.
You're at least a co producer.
So you've got to come in and have your content at the set period of time.
It's not like a news crew coming, shooting your whole speech and then figuring out what the best parts
are for the evening news.
You don't want to have to be edited.
You want your whole speech from beginning, middle and end to be watched.
You want it to stand on its own.
You want it to make sense.
You want it to move people.
You want them on the edge of their chair, the edge of their couch, watching you throughout the whole
speech.
And that's part of the beauty of having the speech for 18 minutes.
It's simply harder to bore people and to lose them.
Speaking for 18 minutes versus for two hours.
Now, it is possible to bore people after 18 minutes.
It's possible to bore people after 30 seconds.
So it's not something that cures all the ills.
You can't say, well, I know I'm kind of boring and tedious, but it's only for 18 minutes.
Remember, most of the people watching your speech are not there in the room live watching you and Ted.
They are watching you online.
And we all know how online attention spans are.
People can sometimes tune out after two seconds.
There are plenty of websites, my own website.
I'm lucky that people stay longer than 90 seconds on my website.
So to actually capture someone and hold their attention for even ten minutes, much less 18 minutes,
is a huge accomplishment.
So you've got to make every second count.
18 minutes is actually an incredibly long time when you're going at it with from the mentality of is
every second counting.
That's why you don't see speaker start off with.
Well, good morning.
I'm so happy to be here.
That's such a great honor to be here at Ted.
I watch all the TED speakers and I'm a huge fan and my lifelong goal to speak at Ted and thank you for
that wonderful introduction.
I didn't deserve all boring.
Cut it out, get rid of it.
Start not necessarily by being funny.
Start not not by necessarily being dramatic, but start your speech by saying something interesting
that's important to your audience.
So that's another way this discipline of having 18 minutes is very, very helpful because most speakers,
even good speakers that go through all this boilerplate nonsense before they start their speech, you
don't have time for that.
You've got to hop right in, deliver something valuable, engage people, engrossed them right from
the beginning, the first, second or the first few seconds.
You need to hook people because you're saying something interesting and you're distinguishing yourself
from all the normal, horrible speakers they see every place else in life.
So 18 minutes or less, it's all the time in the world if you make every second count.

--- Style AND Substance are Essential ---

When you're giving a TED talk, the stagecraft of how you come across is very important, your performance
skills, your platform skills are critically important.
For example, it is very rare to see any speaker at TED like this holding notes.
The problem with holding notes is it makes the whole thing seem like a tedious exercise.
Listening to a boring assistant professor in college who's nervous and uncomfortable, you destroy the
contact.
You make it seem less like a conversation, and it's a lot more likely to be a data dump because there's
so many points here.
So the notes cannot be visible in your hand right now.
You also don't want to write them on your hand like Sarah Palin either.
You also can't be sort of turning your back and reading a PowerPoint bullet points.
That doesn't work either.
The other thing that you see in most business settings, most conventions conference, you have a lecture
what people call a podium, but a podium is actually what you stand on, the thing where there's a barrier
between you and the audience and something to put your notes on.
The president of the United States uses one, for example.
Ted doesn't allow that.
I commend Ted for that, because once you give someone a lectern, you make them passive, you hide
them, you immobilize them.
You're creating a barrier between you and the audience.
Ted is very smart and that they get rid of all the trappings that people associate with awful boring
speakers.
And they instead do the things that the highest level professional speakers do, people who are really
true, true performance artist on the stage.
They're also doing the things that Oprah and other great communicators on TV do.
You don't see Oprah Winfrey when she's on her TV show, standing behind a lectern and looking like some
pompous college professor.
So you need to know that going in, you can say to them, well, you know, this is how I always give
my speech.
They don't care.
And I praise the TED organizers for telling people they don't care.
They care about what works for their audience and they know there's no one in the world are better at
bringing in huge, massive, massive audiences to listen to speakers talking about serious things.
Sure, you can be TMZ and show pictures of half naked celebrities and get a lot of views and clicks
an audience that's relatively easy.
But actually getting people to listen to serious experts, academics, entrepreneurs, people who've
devoted their life to really accomplishing something to get masses of people to listen to them, that's
a huge accomplishment.
So Ted does it by basically forcing you to not do all the awful things that remind people of how much
they don't like speakers and how boring those speakers are.
So that's why you don't see the lectern.
You also and there may be a few exceptions, none of this teleprompter stuff.
Here's the problem with the teleprompters.
Unless you're used to using a teleprompter every day, most people do something like this.
Good morning.
I am happy to be here today.
My name is TJ Walker.
As president of Media Training Worldwide, I coach CEOs and top leaders how to give speeches at TED
and other famous for here.
How awful that is.
What I'm doing is what most people do when they're reading a teleprompter and they're not professional
news readers.
They read at the same speed, the same volume, the same tone, and their body and their heads freeze.
So if you're at a Ted X or some smaller group somewhere, and maybe if I can get away with something,
don't try it.
Teleprompters are great.
If you're the president of the United States and you have to give 10 speeches a day on complicated foreign
policy issues and one wrong slip causes an international incident or a war.
But if you are giving a TED talk and you're speaking about something that you've devoted a lifetime
to or at least years of working in it and, you know, in and out and you've experienced it, you shouldn't
need a teleprompter.
You should simply be sharing your experiences.
And that's what great speakers do all the time, whether they're at TED or any place else.
They share experiences and that's what allows them to.
Walk around now, I'm not walking around because I just have one little camera on me now, but Ted has
a fancier production and they're going to have a camera person following you and they may have multiple
cameras.
So use the stage sometimes it's just a round little circle, but just taking a step one direction,
a step back, occasionally forward a little bit.
It creates tremendous variety and will make you look more comfortable, more confident, more relaxed
and authoritative.
And it will distinguish you from all the boring, awful speakers out there.
Now, there are plenty of TED speakers who you can tell are somewhat nervous.
They're not professional speakers.
They just happen to be the world's greatest expert on these or some other very specific aspect of science
or mathematics or design.
You don't have to be the world's greatest speaker, but you do have to pay attention to the stagecraft
into basic performance skills.
And as we'll talk about later, you're going to have to rehearse and you're going to have to rehearse
in a specific way on video.
But before you even worry about rehearsing, you've got to get rid of the crutches that a lot of speakers
use that don't really prop you up and reading, trying to read a speech, word for word of paper disaster,
trying to read a teleprompter for most people, most of the time a disaster.
They're not going to have it.
And trying to rely on PowerPoint slides that have text, pathetic, horrible disaster.
Don't even try it.
You've simply got to speak.
Now, I'm not opposed to you having some outline, but if you're going to have an outline, what I recommend
for my own clients, which you can occasionally do, is have a single sheet of paper, really large
text that can be on the floor.
You don't want to be seen touching notes.
It's on the floor.
No one will notice it.
If there is a teleprompter on the floor and it's a screen, I would have it so that it's not scrolling.
So on the teleprompter, you have maybe five points and it's up the whole time.
And that way you don't have to worry about the teleprompter operator going too fast or too slow.
But fundamentally, you're sharing your life story, your life's work.
It's not about remembering any one fact or any one.
No, it's about really connecting with people, your passion, telling them what's most important.
And if you have something to show in the form of glaciers that are melting, put it up there.
Really talk about the significance beyond that, you're going to have to do the things that you see
great speakers do.
Great speakers move their hands.
They do not hold a pen.
If you're holding a pen or a brush or something, then you've immobilized your hands, part of your
body.
You want your hands to move.
You want your face to move, your eyebrows to move.
You want your height to change sometimes because you're leaning forward.
You want movement.
Now, not all movement is good.
If you're going like this the whole time and pacing in a highly consistent way, that will seem like
you're nervous.
If you're fidgeting with your ring on your finger the whole time, that will make you seem nervous.
All of those things can be eliminated in rehearsal.
If you rehearse on videos, we'll talk about shortly.
But you do need some movement.
You do need pauses.
You do need eye contact with people in the audience, even though the people watching you on their computer
can't necessarily see that you don't want to just be seen like you're staring straight ahead, because
even if you're not reading a teleprompter or a script, people will think that you are you need natural
movement.
Now, you've heard people say, well, just be yourself.
The problem with that advice is it's not particularly helpful because if you're not used to standing
up on a stage, bright lights on your face, all sorts of powerful, successful people staring at you
and knowing millions of people are going to watch you later.
If you're not doing that every day, then the natural thing for you to do is to be scared.
Oh, my gosh, I'm scared.
I could look like a fool up here.
So when people give you advice of just be yourself, that's not particularly helpful.
What you have to do is figure out how do you come across when you are at your most comfortable situation,
when you're talking to three friends at a restaurant over a glass of.
Wine, how do you act when you're speaking to five colleagues that you know and trust in your office
and you're explaining something?
How do you come across?
Chances are you're not stiff and frozen and holding your hands.
Chances are you're gesturing, you're moving.
Your voice goes up and down.
There's animation in your voice.
There's movement in your face.
That's what you want when you are giving your speech.
You have to pay attention to the stagecraft and you've got to pay attention to everything you're sending
out there for people to see and hear.
That includes dress.
You've got to figure out how you want to dress.
Now, not everyone has to dress in a conservative business suit and tie.
You need to dress in a way that's consistent with who you are and what you're about.
If you're an artist, you don't want to wear a conservative business suit.
If you are a bank regulator and you're talking about how we've got to bust up the big banks, you probably
don't want to be seen in jeans and t shirt.
So how you dress is an important part of what your message is.
There's no one perfect way of dressing, but you do need to dress in a way that's consistent with what
you're all about.
Every little detail will be scrutinized and you don't want anything to distract.
If I started this video like this and I said everything exactly the same way, but my tie is like this,
I think a lot of you would be saying, oh, that's weird.
Why be focusing on the tie rather than what I'm saying?
And you don't have to wear a tie, but you're better off having no tie than having one that's crooked
like that.
So pay attention to every detail.
And the biggest way to do that is you have to rehearse on video.

--- Video Rehearsal is the Most Important Step ---

OK, here's the part that you're not going to let, you're not going to like me now, in fact, you
may want to go and start writing bad reviews on this course.
You're not going to want to do what I'm going to ask you to do.
But I'm telling you, it is absolutely essential if you want to be a TED speaker or if you want to be
a good speaker for any venue.
And here's what you need to do.
You need to practice on video.
You need to record it on your cell phone, on a webcam.
It could be a movie camera if you want, or it could be just a very, very cheap webcam that you buy
for ten dollars at the grocery store.
I don't care what kind of camera you use, that's unimportant.
What's important is that you can actually see your speech.
People don't like to do this.
Even good speakers teach and the like.
Looking at myself, I don't like the tone of my voice and oh my gosh, I don't like the fact that my
hair's falling out.
All tough.
Everyone watching you at Ted and everyone watching you online is going to have to hear your voice.
They're going to have to see your wrinkles or your jowls or your hair.
So you might as well know how you're coming across to the number one thing I do with my private clients.
Doesn't matter if they're presidents of countries, prime ministers, NFL stars.
The only way to improve your speech is you have to practice on video numerous times.
Well, T.J., can I just talk to the mirror?
No.
If you talk to the mirror, if you're like most people after a while, you're going to think, I just
mean, that's a little crooked or my eyes bigger than they used to be.
You can't actually focus on delivering your presentation and do it in a mirror and be able to process
it and figure out what's working, what isn't work.
You can't do two things at the same time.
We all like to think we can multitask.
We can't.
You need to give your presentation, have it recorded, and while you're giving it, just focus on giving
your presentation, then you need to watch your presentation and you've got to focus just on watching
that presentation.
And here's what you've got to do.
You've got to get paper.
Or if you want to do it on your tablet, that's fine, too.
But you need to have a line down the middle of whatever screen or paper you're looking at right down
the stuff you like on one side.
Write down the stuff you don't like on the other.
So you've got to give your speech.
Watch it, great it.
If you stop right there, you haven't improved anything and that you probably have discouraged yourself
because you're fixated on the things you don't like.
You have to give your speech again and record it again.
Now, maybe you have friends, colleagues, associates will do this, family members, but if you don't,
you don't get off the hook.
I know you have some video camera near you.
Your laptop has a camera on it.
Your cell phone has a camera on it.
You don't have any excuses the way you did 30 years ago, even 20 years ago.
Everyone is surrounded by cheap video cameras.
So you've got to practice again and again and again.
So you've done it a second time.
Ideally, the list of things you don't like is shorter this time.
The things you do like is longer because nothing else.
You eliminated one or two things you didn't like.
So you've got to really look at it again and figure out what am I still not happy with and what am I
happy with that I have to do more of.
And guess what?
You've got to practice your speech again and review it again.
Keep practicing it until you like how you're coming across, till you're convinced this is the way you
want to look.
This is the way you want to sound.
This is the way you want to move.
This is your message.
These are your stories.
These are your examples.
This is how you want to communicate at every level of style and substance.
Now, for some of you, you might be able to do it one take.
Great.
Good for you.
But I got to tell you, that's rare for many of you.
It may take twenty takes, it may take thirty takes, it may take a hundred different takes over the
course of a year to get to that point where you're really happy with it.
But you need to get to that point because that's what will give you confidence whether you're on the
TED platform or a lot of other platforms.
Is that confidence knowing you look exactly how you want to look.
You're coming across the way.
You want to come across.
People ask me, T.J., don't you get nervous when you speak?
Are you nervous now?
When you're doing this video?
The answer is no, it's not, because I think it's impossible for anyone else to do better.
But I do think it's impossible for me to do better because this is how I come across.
This is how I want to come a.
Lost some you might like it, some of you might not, but I'm not worried about oh, it's my left hand
shaking.
Am I speaking too quickly?
Am I?
I'm not worried about any of that, because everything I'm saying to you right now, I've seen myself
say the very same things.
Other videos have practiced for you.
I've rehearsed for you.
And that's why I'm not nervous.
And this is why you can go on to a TED platform and have a million people watching you and not be nervous
because you're not going to wonder about what to do.
You're not going to wonder if this works.
You're not going to wonder if it looks OK to walk over here, move your hands or do this.
You'll know exactly how you're coming across because you've seen it many, many times now.
Great communicators, for that matter, great entertainers, great musicians will watch video of their
own concert so they can figure out what works, how to get better if something didn't work, how to
make a tweak.
So there's nothing nothing new original about this.
The new element is it's just so cheap because so many cell phones have video capabilities and webcams
and tablets have cameras.
So the technology makes it easier.
But this is what people, presidents of countries, CEOs of billion dollar companies, this is what
they've been doing for years with people like me.
Now it's available to absolutely everyone.
You may be an academic at the top of your field, but there's not a huge, huge budget for this sort
of training.
That's OK.
You can do it yourself.
Also at some level of the TED application, they're going to want to see video of you.
Now you'll have something.
Don't just send them the very first video you do.
Send them one that you're happy with.
And you're not going to be happy unless you practice many, many times on video.
So some of you are just passively sitting back watching this cause maybe you're on a bus.
That's fine.
But I can tell you right now, this whole course is a complete waste of your time and money, regardless
of whether you want to be a TED speaker or just be a better speaker in life.
It's all a waste unless you do this one tip, and that is keep practicing your speech on video and watching
it until you do that.
And you'll be a great speaker whether you speak to Ted or not.
If you don't practice your speech on video, there's an excellent chance you will be mediocre and all
of your presentations for the rest of your life.
So please rehearse.

--- Great Writers Read Great Writers--Great Speakers Watch Great Speakers ---

If you ever talk to a lot of great writers, the one thing you'll find in common, they pretty much
all say this is that they like to read other great writings.
They read the classics, they read other people they respect who are currently writing.
Doesn't matter if it's fiction, nonfiction.
People who pride themselves in their ability to craft words, to be a great writer spent a lot of their
time reading and they read for pleasure.
They read for fun and they read for work.
That's how they get better.
It's not because they're stealing ideas, but it's motivating them.
It's it's holding them to higher standards.
This idea here with a little twist or wrinkle can work in something they're writing.
It's an essential part of being a great writer.
Speaking is no different.
But remember, the final output when you're speaking is not the text of your speech for a history book.
The final product is you actually speaking.
And that's why it's all well and good to read books about speaking.
And I've read probably a thousand and I've written half a dozen.
But at some point you need to put the books aside and you need to spend some time on a regular basis
watching speakers.
Now, if you want to speak at ten, I would certainly recommend that you watch a lot of TED speakers.
There are thousands of them.
Now, you may find certain categories of science or maybe music that you're not interested in.
The beauty of TED is it's organized by sections and a lot of different ways.
You can focus on just what you're interested in.
But I would advise you to go beyond your interest.
Sometimes you can learn even more about someone speaking skills, their stagecraft techniques.
If you're not even as interested in their subject matter, you can actually focus on some of these other
things they're doing.
So I would advise you to do what I do is try to get a broad swath of speakers in your video viewing
diet the same way you may read New York Times or Wall Street Journal regularly find some point in the
week or even the day when you're watching videos of people speaking.
Now, you don't have to just rely on Ted.
There are a lot of great places for speaking videos, and YouTube has at this point hundreds of millions
of them.
The beauty of Ted, though, is they've done a great job of curating before anyone ever gets on video.
They've eliminated boring, awful speakers.
So that's why I like going to Ted and that I know I'm not going to be watching for thirty seconds and
have to think, oh, this is really boring.
Awful.
The audio quality is awful.
This person's read and not to worry about that.
So that is the beauty of Ted.
But wherever you watch speakers, you may just want to watch stand up comedy on Netflix.
That's a type of speaking and good comedians are by definition great public speakers, even though you
might not think of it that way.
I do recommend if you want to be a TED speaker, and it's just generally you want to get better and
better and better at speaking.
You need to watch speakers and you may find there's someone in particular you really like.
You can then follow them, follow their blog, find out every time they speak, then subscribe to their
YouTube channel so you can watch all of their speeches.
And this way you can develop stronger tastes.
Then you're not out to mimic someone.
But if you surround yourself by great speakers and you're watching great speakers all the time, some
of it just rubs off.
If you watch speaker after speaker after speaker move around looking at the audience, not staring at
notes and not using boring bullet point slides, it's going to be harder for you to just out of the
blue say, oh, I got to give a speech, let me read a bunch of boring bullet points.
It's not going to occur to you because your standards will be elevated.
That's true.
That's why people like to read good writing.
It's also why good speakers like to watch good speakers.
So I would urge you find someplace, put it on your calendar if you have to, or if you're used to just
watching sitcoms every Thursday night for two hours.
How about at least the first half an hour of that break, finding a good, entertaining speaker?

--- Apply to Speak at TED and Final Thoughts ---

So we come to the end of this course on how to be a TED speaker, how to speak like TED speakers, I
hope you've learned some tips if you're ready to take it to the next step.
Below in the description is how you apply.
Now, take note.
They ask for other people to nominate you.
I don't really take kindly to someone who has to nominate themselves, but if you are a great speaker,
you have a great subject, a truly good idea that needs to spread and you're a good speaker, then you
could certainly ask people to nominate you.
There's nothing wrong with that.
However, I hope after our time together you're seeing sort of the bigger picture.
The big picture is not about whether you speak at TED.
The big picture is about you speaking on a regular basis and more and more compelling ways, reaching
broader audiences.
And if you follow these tips, ultimately, it's not going to matter if you speak to Ted or not, you're
going to be a better and better speaker.
You're going to be asked to speak at more places and you are going to reach more people through the
power of your voice.
The power of your ideas will get out there.
And that's ultimately what it's all about.
Your own good ideas can spread.
Good luck.

--- The Secret to Selling When Presenting ---

Sure, Amazon can sell billions just by people clicking, but if you want to make the sale, especially
a big sale, you're going to have to speak to that prospect.
You're going to have to look him or her in the eye and explain the value proposition of your service,
of your product.
That's what sales presentations are for the biggest and best clients.
Customers ultimately come in through sales presentations.
One real person, you talking to other real people.
I'm going to teach you in this course how to give a great sales presentation every single time, how
to tailor it to the particular needs of your prospects.
And it's not going to matter whether you're having an on day and off day, whether the projector works,
you'll still give a great sales presentation.
So let's hop right in.
And please keep in mind this course isn't going to help unless you practice your sales presentations
on video as I instruct you to do so throughout the course.
So get ready to record your sales presentations and to critique them.

--- Create Winning Sales Messages for Every Presentation ---

Now that you've determined exactly what your goal is, I want you to come up with a very specific list
of the top five reasons that you think will motivate this audience member to doing what you want, whether
it's signing a contract today, whether it's recommending your firm for consideration for the future,
whether it's simply establishing a relationship so that over the next five years they become a customer
again.
Your goals can vary, but you need to know exactly what messages you think are going to drive that customer
to it.
It can't be.
Here is a list of eighty nine features of our software.
That's not going to be something a typical prospect is going to keep in their head when deciding to
make a purchase with you or to recommend to you.
So I need you to really brainstorm on all the different things that could possibly motivate your prospect
into becoming a client, a customer, doing what you want, put it in priority.
If you're not certain, I'd ask your existing customers why they decided to go with you.
What did they like when they heard you give a sales presentation or another colleague give a sales presentation
last month or six months ago or five years ago?
That is your best source of information, not your gut, typically not your corporate marketing department,
although I would certainly look at what they have.
Ask actual real customers who've gone with you in the past what motivated them?
Why did they decide to go with your company and put those messages right in front of you?
So I want you to write these down five messages, ten words or less for each one, not five gigantic
themes and twenty seven sub points and product characteristics, but five big ideas, because that's
what you're going to spend your time on in this sales presentation.
So please do that right now.
Brainstorm.
You can come up with fifty one hundred three hundred.
You can look at the PowerPoint deck, the corporate essentially and look at ten thousand ideas.
But I need you to have real clarity for when you're giving this sales presentation and I need you to
write it down now or you can write it on a screen piece of paper, your phone.
But I want you to have five no more than five messages.
You want to communicate that you think if the person you're speaking to didn't remember anything else,
these five messages would make them take the actions you want.
Write it down now.

--- Mastering All Types of Presentations ---

Let's define some terms here.
There are a lot of different types of sales presentations, there's sort of a first time stop by and
say hello and chat for five minutes, one on one.
That would be one extreme.
The other extreme is, OK, we've had a nationwide search.
We put out an RFP to one hundred ad agencies.
Yours is the one of the final three.
All three firms are being allowed to give a three hour presentation and it's for a two hundred million
dollar advertising budget.
That's a different type of a sales presentation.
There's a so-called formal presentation, informal presentation standing, giving a presentation to
80 prospects.
There's sitting around a conference table talking to three and there's one on one.
Here's what I really need you to focus on, regardless of the audience, regardless of the so-called
style or situation.
Is this are you being interesting to the people you're speaking to?
Are you giving them interesting, useful, memorable information?
That's what you need to think about.
Here's why this is significant.
A lot of salespeople are really good.
One on one ability to put away the PowerPoint.
Let's just talk.
You're really good one on one.
But then the second the situation seems to be more formal.
You're standing talking to fifteen rather than sitting, talking to one or two.
That's when a lot of salespeople change themselves.
They change their sales presentation and unfortunately, they often change it for the worse.
They make the sales presentation worse because they feel like I know it's a bit more formal.
I'm now giving a PowerPoint.
So it's going to be more formal.
Well, there are few guarantees in life, but here's one guarantee I will give you your audience.
Your prospects are never sitting back in their seat thinking, boy, oh, boy, I sure wish this guy
or this woman would be more formal today.
That's not what prospects are thinking.
The only thing they're thinking about is this is interesting, useful.
I'm going to pay attention or boring.
They're not going to make the cut.
This isn't interesting.
Let me pretend to pay attention, but really let me check my email.
That's the only thing ever going on in the minds of your prospects when they are listening to you.
So great sales presenters realize that their whole mentality is on the audience and they're looking
at them.
That's why you can't be reading.
I'm not anti PowerPoint, but you certainly can't be reading your PowerPoint or reading your script
or reading a computer screen.
You've got to be looking at people.
People don't buy from people who don't look them in the eye.
So you've got to be focused on your audience.
It doesn't matter if it's one doesn't matter if it's ten, one hundred or ten thousand.
You've got to be completely focused on that audience member, that prospect, that potential customer.
That's got to be your mindset, not I'm giving a PowerPoint speech today or a technical there's no such
thing as a PowerPoint speech, a technical speech, or for that matter, a sales presentation.
The only thing that goes on in the audience's mind is it's either good presentation or a bad presentation.
You've got to focus all your energies on making this prospect.
Think this is a good presentation.
This person is giving me interesting, useful information, memorable, and I can act on it.
That's got to be your entire focus.

--- One on One Presentations Should Be the Easiest for You ---

The best type of sales presentation in the entire world is a one on one sales presentation.
The worst type of sales presentation in the entire world is also a one on one sales person to is the
best because for most people, they communicate the best.
You can be completely responsive.
You can be paying attention.
You can see is this person get it?
You can ask them questions.
You can really have true engagement.
Now, the bad part about it is it's less efficient than speaking to all the decision makers, for example,
in a company or talking to a whole lot of prospects it wants.
I'm not suggesting you turn down one on one presentations, but here's what I am suggesting.
When you're trying to figure out how to make better group sales presentations, large group sales presentations,
bigger ones don't have as your starting point PowerPoint slides with lots of bullet points.
And I'm not anti PowerPoint.
It's perfectly fine to use PowerPoint, but the greatest source of material for your group presentations,
your formal sales presentations in front of an entire board of directors are in front of 50 prospects.
The best source of material is what actually goes on in your one on one sales presentations.
So examples you give in a one on one sales presentation that work and the prospect says, oh, I can
relate to that.
Now I get it.
That's exactly what you want in your so-called formal sales presentation.
Stories that you give in a one on one sales presentation are the same ones, by and large, the ones
you should use for your formal sales presentations.
If there's a particular slide, your PowerPoint, it's complex and people can't really have a conversation
with you one on one over at lunch or the office looking at that.
So I don't use that slide in the so-called formal sales presentation.
If you go through a particular part of your sales pitch and prospects one on one site.
What does that mean?
And then they ask you a question and it's pretty consistent that they do that at that point.
You need to build that question into your sales presentation.
Don't wait for people to ask because sometimes people are afraid to interrupt you if there's thirty
other people in the room.
But if it's just one on one in their office or over lunch, they will ask you a question because it
seems like a conversation.
One on one pitches are obviously the best type of presentation for most of us most of the time.
But if you learn the right lessons, if you apply what we're talking about in this course, every single
thing you do in that one on one conversation you can do in a group presentation, it just is a little
bit different.
You can't ask fifty people one on one and wait for their response for a particular question, but you
can throw out rhetorical questions and then say, and I was talking to your colleague Sandy right before
we started and she mentioned to me today we've had that you can reference conversations with people
so that it still seems more like a conversation that seems more like an interaction, a consultation
almost instead of the typical sales presentation, which is here's our product, here's our product.
Here's a benefit.
Here's a feature.
Here's facts.
Here's numbers here that's to top down.
It's too much of a data dump.
So really, mind the things you're doing well in your one on one sales presentations and make sure you
put all that good stuff into the formal sales presentation is the problem most people have is all the
good stuff they have in the one on one presentations.
They throw that away and then they start gathering a whole bunch of text slides, PowerPoint, and they
go through all the data and say, well, I'd love to get to the good stuff, to the stories, the examples,
the case.
But there's no time.
I get all the data to go through.
Don't make that mistake.

--- Getting Your Prospects to Take Action ---

So what is your actual goal in giving this sales presentation?
I know it sounds like a simplistic question, but you need to step back for a minute and ask yourself
before you start giving the speech, before you even start preparing for the speech, because all too
often people say, oh, I've got a sales presentation and they just dive right into the big stack of
slides that corporate has sent them where they dust off the business plan.
You need to really step back and ask yourself, what is the goal?
Is your goal to get an order today?
Is it to get a contract through one hurdle and it could be another 12 hurdles, another 12 months before?
Is it to simply build a relationship with them so that two years from now they want to purchase from
you?
Ask yourself exactly what is the goal of this presentation?
I need you to write it down.
And once I know it sounds simplistic, but if you don't have your goal in mind, you're not going to
know how to get there.
Write it down in one sentence what the goal is of a very, very particular sales presentation that we're
going to be practicing with this one throughout the entire course.
So make sure it's something you can relate to and are going to be using in real life.

--- You Will Never Commit These 2 Common Blunders ---

Let's just cut to the chase, what are the two top problems in the vast, vast majority of sales presentations
and probably ninety nine point nine percent of failed sales presentations?
Well, the number one problem is that it's just a massive data dump.
It's a feature feature, feature, feature, fact, fact, fact, fact number.
Lots and lots of data.
It's a massive data dump.
And the prospect is just sort of it's overwhelming.
The eyes glaze over.
Too much of it sounds like what your competitors say and it's not memorable.
Well, that's the number one problem in most sales presentations.
The second largest problem is a really awful PowerPoint slide that in a text way, in a numbers way,
commits the very same problem, that the first problem was way too much data, way too many numbers,
too many facts, nothing particularly visual or interesting.
And again, I'm all in favor of PowerPoint, and I'm going to give you tips on how to use PowerPoint
effectively.
But those are the two big problems.
Too much of a big data dump, not enough case study stories, examples, and really bad PowerPoint slides
that put everybody to sleep because it's too much data.
If you can simply avoid those two problems, you're going to be so far ahead of the pack.
It's not even funny.
You don't even have to be great with everything else that we want you to be great.
You are going to stand out from your competitors.
So whatever you do, don't commit the two most common blunders of sales presentations.

--- Final Thoughts on Sales Presentations ---

Thanks for joining me on this journey.
I think if you follow the exorcized, not if you've listen to me, frankly, listening to me doesn't
help.
But if you've actually followed the exercises and recorded yourself giving a sales presentation and
done it until you like it, well, then congratulations.
You are now excellent at giving sales presentations.
If you've all if all you've done is watch this passively sit back, take a few notes, I hope it's at
least giving you some food for thought.
But you probably aren't a great sales presenter yet.
There's simply nothing like this is one of these skills.
It's more like riding a bicycle than learning advanced mathematics.
You have to actually do it.
It's not just something you can sit back in a desk and read and think about.
You have to do it.
So if you haven't done these exercises, I'm begging you one last time, go back, videotape yourself,
critique it, keep doing it till you love it.
If you've done all of that, then congratulations.
You are ready to give a great sales presentation.
But remember, great sales presenters learn from every single sales presentation they ever give.
They're always looking for new reactions from the audience.
They're always looking for ways of doing something better.
Sometimes it's just that last question somebody asked and you gave a very specific example, case study,
and you could see the the eyes light up that now gives you focus group research for something valuable
you can put in your next speech.
But don't wait for the Q&amp;A.
Put it right up in the first few minutes.
So great speakers don't just learn once and do great speeches forever.
It's constant, constant refinement, learning, improving and making it better.
Good luck with all your sales presentations in life.
I'm TJ Walker.

--- If You Can Have a Conversation With One friend, then You can Be a Good Speaker ---

Here's the thing about public speaking, it's one of the few things in life where you can be 13 years
old, you can be five years old, and you can actually be better than a lot of adults are parents now.
That's just not true in a lot of things in life.
It's not true with driving and other dangerous skills that are only available to adults.
But public speaking is different.
Here's why.
We've all seen really boring public speakers, sometimes teachers, sometimes people in other settings,
whether it is people who are speaking in your community about various issues.
We've all seen boring speakers and what happens when you're bored.
You daydream, you doodle, you play on a cell phone or some sort of electronic game.
That person isn't communicating at all.
Well, guess what?
It doesn't matter if you're five years old or fifty five years old.
If you're boring, you're not communicating.
On the other hand, if you can stand up and speak, whether it's in front of just two parents or in
front of 30 other classmates or perhaps your entire school.
Five hundred people, if you can do that, that is a great skill.
And any age you can learn that is a great time to learn it, because it's a skill you can use right
now to help you get through school, but also to help you with every other project, whether it's a
scouting project, whether you're trying to ask for an increase in an allowance from your parents,
the ability to speak and to speak in a way where people will listen to you and have a sense that you're
comfortable and relaxed, that's a good thing.
If they can understand you and remember your message, there's a just a much greater chance that you'll
get what you want, whether it's getting a good grade on that book report, whether it is getting permission
to go on that camping trip, whatever it is, you increase the odds of getting what you want in life,
whether it's in school, whether it's at home or in anything else you do, if you learn how to speak
effectively.
So that's what we're going to learn how to do right now.

--- Accomplish Your Goals In Every Presentation ---

The first thing you do before any public speech.
By the way, I'm going to use the term public speaking presentation, giving a presentation, giving
a talk, giving a book report.
It's really any time you're talking to someone and you're trying to convey specific information, it's
not just talking about something you saw on TV or fun or a game, but you're talking in order to communicate
something.
It could be a large group.
It could be three people.
But it's not just social chatter.
So that's what I mean.
So you may be giving a book report and sitting down in front of six classmates.
That's still a type of public speaking.
It's a type of presentation.
So the first thing you've got to do before any presentation you give, whether it's asking for allowance
or giving a book report on Davy Crockett, is you've got to really figure out what are your goals.
If you're asking for allowance, it's very specific.
You want that additional amount of money every single week.
If it's a book report, your goals may be more general.
You want people to know a lot of interesting things about Davy Crockett.
And do you want the teacher to be impressed by you and do you want a good grade?
But whatever it is, you need to go into every single presentation with a specific goal in mind.
So that's my first bit of homework for you.
I need you to come up with something that you're going to practice on in this course.
It could be a purely academic report that you have to give in class next week.
It could be you just making the case to your parents as to why you want the next family vacation to
be Disney World.
It's completely up to you.
But I want you to think of the topic you want to discuss, and then I want you to focus on the exact
goal you have, the outcome you want from this presentation.
So let's think of it and let's write it down now.

--- Make Sure Your Most Important Ideas Are Remembered ---

Once you've decided exactly what the topic is and what your goal is for this presentation, I need you
to really focus on what do you think is going to motivate your audience to follow up on the goals,
to do what you want them to do, so you accomplish your goal.
Now, if it's in the classroom, you may simply want the other students in your room and the teacher
to know that, you know, all the basic, fundamental, important things about this person's life and
to put a spotlight on a handful of important moments.
If you are asking your parents to go in a particular type of vacation, say, to Disneyland, then you've
got to ask yourself, what are the specific reasons that are most likely to motivate your parents to
take you to Disneyland?
So you've got to focus.
You can't just put forth every single fact, every single data.
You can't say, well, Disneyland is open from eight a.m. to ten point three hundred and sixty.
That's a fact about Disneyland.
It's unlikely to motivate your parents to do what you want.
So you can't look at all the facts of a person's life if you're giving a book report on their life.
Because if it's just the person was born on this day and this month, in this year in eighteen seventy
two, who cares?
Why should anyone really care about that unless you explain it in proper context.
So the biggest problem for most people speaking, whether they're students, whether they're adults,
whether they're teachers, is they just throw out so much stuff.
That frankly is an interesting it's boring.
It's just way too much stuff.
So part of what you need to learn how to do right now is before you say something to talk a book report,
a presentation, a request to your family, ask yourself, is what I'm saying truly going to be interesting
to the people in the room I'm speaking to?
Is it really going to be interesting and important to them or is it just going to seem really boring?
And they're going to think, oh, let me just ignore what this kid is saying and let me check my email.
So that's my big challenge to you.
Always think about what's truly important.
If you're giving a five minute book report in class, you can't go through every single fact about someone's
life.
You may have to read an entire book, maybe three books on the person's life.
If you were to say everything in those books, you'd have to stand up and talk for twenty hours.
You're not going to give a 20 hour speech in class and nobody wants to listen to that.
So you've really got to ask yourself what is truly most important here.
So much of being a good public speaker doesn't have anything to do with how tall you are or whether
your voice becomes deep, complete nonsense.
So much of being a good public speaker is about simply using judgment of what's interesting and what
isn't.
You already have judgment.
You've been deciding your whole life.
What TV shows are interesting.
What's more, what video games are interesting, what's boring, what teachers are interesting, what's
boring.
So you already know what's boring and what's not.
So you need to apply that same rule to the stuff you're talking about.
Focus on what's interesting.
So I need you to come up with a handful of messages that are going to make the case.
Again, it doesn't matter if you're making a presentation to your parents and where to go for vacation.
If you are giving a book, report, a biography on someone, focus on what's really most important,
the top five ideas.
Now, if you're giving a twenty minute presentation on an entire term paper that you've worked on for
months, I understand you'll have to go beyond five points.
But for starters, let's really make sure we know what's most important.
We can always add more.
So that's your homework.
Now come up with a list of the five most important points you're trying to convey in this presentation
to your classmates, friends, family or teachers.

--- Make Your Points Unforgettable - Examples ---

Here's a magic phrase for you, any time you're speaking, any time you're giving a book report, a
presentation of any sort, it's a magic phrase.
And here it is, for example.
That's it.
Now, you have to then give an example.
But human beings are trying to learn.
They're trying to listen to you and figure out what it is you're talking about.
So any time you can give an example, you are better off.
I've never heard any audience.
I've never heard any teacher, any one in the world say I hated the way that last presenter gave so
many interesting, relevant examples.
I've never heard that.
And yet I often hear people say that speaker was boring.
That was a data dump.
I didn't learn anything from that.
It was just sort of vague and fuzzy.
So use examples.
Any time you want to make a point, give a specific example.
So, for example, when I am telling people it's important not to look nervous and uncomfortable, I
don't just then go on to the next point when giving public speaking advice, I say, for example, if
you're looking down the whole time and look like you're guilty, then people are going to assume that
you're nervous, uncomfortable.
They're going to maybe feel sympathy for you, but they're not going to focus on you if you're holding
your hands in front of you like you have to go to the bathroom, that's going to make you look nervous
and uncomfortable.
Don't do that.
Don't have your hands being held right in front of you.
The best thing to do is move your hands.
So I'm giving examples.
So think of examples for every one of your messages that you've written down, because in a moment we're
going to start practicing our presentations, get ready, come up with those examples for each one of
your five main points.

--- Use a Cheat Sheet That Will Never Get You in Trouble ---

So in a few minutes, we're actually going to deliver our presentation and practice it on video, it's
a big moment and it's really the most important element of this whole training.
But before we do, I want to make life easier for you now in school, I would never, ever suggest you
cheat.
It's not the right thing to do.
It's not ethical.
It's not moral.
Plus, if you get caught, penalties are severe.
But when you are giving a presentation, a talk doesn't matter if it's to your scouting troop.
Does it matter if it's to school family?
I do recommend that you have a cheat sheet now.
By that I mean just a single sheet of paper that's got some notes, big, bold letters, not whole sentences,
not whole paragraphs.
Because here's something I guarantee you.
That's true.
It's true of students and every first grade class.
It's true of students in college.
It's true of adults who are eighty five years old.
And here's the big truth.
Human beings can't stand it when someone reads to them, because when you read to them, your voice
goes flat, monotone.
There's no eye contact.
The facial expressions are flat and you're sort of ignoring the audience.
And audiences just don't like that.
So I recommend do not ever read when you're giving a presentation.
Now, of course, there are exceptions.
If you are quoting Patrick Henry or any other famous author and you want to get it just right.
Well, certainly it's fine to glance down and read.
If your teacher requires you to read, then by all means, do what the teacher ask.
But when it's up to you, I want you to do, it's easier for the audience, not what's easier for you.
Because here's the thing.
All great public speakers know of any age.
It's not about you.
It's about the audience and getting them to understand you and to do what you want.
So you're asking your parents for an increase in allowance.
It doesn't really matter what's easy for you to read.
What matters to you is, are your parents hearing this, understanding it?
Are they persuaded and are they then going to do what you want?
So it's never just about the words.
If it were just about the words, you could send an email or just type or handwritten note and hand
it to someone.
There may be times when that's enough.
But the beauty of talking to people, public speaking, if there's more than one person in the room,
is it puts a spotlight on an idea and it shows people you think this is important.
And that's why it's really critical to focus on your audience and to get them to understand you care
about them understanding your ideas.
And that's why reading is just never a good idea.
Now, some of you may say, hey, I'm just a kid, I'm nervous, I'm scared.
I might leave something out.
I want to get it just right.
So I'm going to read it.
You know, I hear those very same excuses from 50 year old business executives, men, women, you name
it.
And the result is always the same.
When they read, they put the audience to sleep.
Nobody has a good impression of them and it just didn't work.
So my recommendation to you is, unless your teacher requires you to read something word for word,
any time you're speaking, any time you're presenting, don't read, have notes, have it, have a cheat
sheet, but limit it to a single sheet of paper, write down any important number, any fact, any date
that's really important that you're afraid you might forget.
But beyond that, you need to be looking at students, looking at your teacher, looking at your parents,
looking at people in your scouting troop or in your civic organization when you're speaking.
If you do that, you'll come across as much more comfortable, more believable, and they're much more
likely to do whatever it is you want them to do or at least understand the ideas you're talking about.
So that's your homework.
Now, come up with a one page cheat sheet for your presentation that we're going to practice soon.

--- 3rd Video Rehearsal ---

So how did you do?
Did you see some improvement?
I hope so.
If you did, in fact, focus on just one thing you didn't like, chances are you made some.
Maybe it's not 100 percent, but you made some improvement.
Now, if you didn't see improvement, typically that means one of two things.
Number one, you tried to fix five or 10 things.
You didn't focus on just one thing and the mind scatters.
The second thing that might have happened is you tried to focus on something that you just can't change
if you're 12 years old and you want to sound like you have a big, deep old man voice a, you can't
really do that without sounding ridiculous, but you don't need to do that.
There's nothing wrong with your voice right now.
As long as people can understand you and you don't sound scared, chances aren't your voice is perfectly
fine.
You don't have to sound like your parents or somebody you've seen in a movie.
You have to sound like you as long as it's to you that sounds interested and relaxed and not scared,
tensed up and nervous and crawling into a turtle shell.
So here's what I need you to do now.
I need you to go and look at the list of things you like and how you're presenting.
Look at the list of things you don't like.
I need you to practice again on video, review it again, figure out what you like, what you don't
like.
Now, here's the key.
This is really the most important lesson of this entire course.
You're not going to like this, but I'm going to tell it to you.
It's not hard to do in the sense of learning how to dunk a basketball or learning how to be an Olympic
caliber gymnast.
Those are hard things to do.
What I'm about to ask you to do is hard in the sense of like cleaning up your room.
It's hard to get motivated to clean up your room, but we can all clean up our room if we just focus
on it and do it until it's done.
So here's what I'm going to ask you to do.
I need you to practice your talk again on video, look at it and keep doing it until you like what you
see.
Maybe that only takes one more time.
Maybe it takes ten times twenty times.
But if you really want to be well prepared for this classroom presentation, this presentation to your
chess club after school, whatever the presentation is, if you really want to be comfortable, you
need to have a role model for yourself.
I can't be your role model.
Your parents, your teachers can't be a role model for this.
If you want a great role model for your presentation, it needs to be you.
And that's why you need to practice on video.
If you can give your presentation recorded on video and look at it and say, wow, that's great.
If I can come across half as well as that student, I'll be the star of my entire classroom or my scouting
trip or wherever it is I'm speaking.
That's where I need you to be.
You can do it.
You just have to put enough time into it.
And this will get easier and easier and easier as you get older and you do this regularly and you'll
get to the point where you really will only need to practice once on video typically.
But this is critically important.
Most people don't want most adults never do this because they're too lazy.
Now is your time to build new, strong habits that are going to last a lifetime.
It's going to help you not just for this cause or not just for this presentation next week.
It is going to help you for a lifetime if you learned the discipline of doing this again.
It's not a hard thing to do.
It's just not something people like to do.
People don't like to look at themselves.
People do at every age, don't like something about their face or their voice.
But if you really want to be confident in any presentation, you need to know that you're coming across
your best.
One of the things that makes people nervous standing up in front of the classroom, talking even to
family members or friends is this idea of, oh, I don't really know how I'm coming across.
Maybe I look nervous, maybe I look scared, maybe I look uncomfortable.
I guess what you might actually look nervous.
Uncomfortable.
Or scared, if you don't know how you're coming across, then you just don't know.
So chances are you might actually look awkward or uncomfortable.
You probably look in a mirror before you go to school in the day because you want to make sure or some
family member, your mom or dad, they want to make sure you don't have grape jelly on your face and
they want you to see that.
So we look at a mirror before we leave the house.
Quite often.
If you're writing any sort of papers yet, you typically will want to run it through spell check or
look at each word and do it yourself to make sure you're spelling things correctly.
Well, it's the same thing with your presentations.
You need to practice it on video until you like it.
So this is one of the few courses in life where you don't have to please the teacher.
It's not about me telling you you pass or you fail.
And at this stage, it's not about your teacher telling you you pass or fail.
It's about you deciding if you pass or fail, because even at your young age, you've already seen speakers
that you thought were boring, not very good.
They they got a fail in your book.
I want you to apply that same logic to your own presentation.
Are you going to give yourself a fail?
If so, that's OK.
But let's figure out how we can make it better.
Keep practicing it on video again and again until you like it.
Once you've done that, you're going to be ready to give the best possible presentation you can on this
topic.
But if you haven't seen a video of yourself that you like, then you're going to be nagged by doubts.
Insecurity is going to creep in to how you present and that's no good.
So please do that.
Now, keep practicing on video until you like your presentation.

--- Final Thoughts on Public Speaking for Kids ---

Congratulations, if you've done what I've asked in this course, and it really all boils down to one
thing.
Have you practice your presentation on video until you like it?
If you've done that?
Congratulations.
You pass.
You are prepared to give presentations tomorrow, next week, next semester.
But more important, if you actually follow this on a regular basis, this is a skill that's going to
help you throughout your whole life because you're going to be giving a lot of presentations in your
life.
Most people aren't very good.
Most people aren't comfortable with it.
Most people are nervous.
If you've actually followed the exercises we've talked about in this course, you're going to be way,
way ahead of most of your friends, your peers, your colleagues, because you're not going to be nervous
when you're giving presentations, because you're going to know the secret of how to come across confident,
comfortable and relaxed.
And you're going to know that you're doing your very best.
You're not going to have to wonder about all I've done this or am I coming across?
OK, you're going to know.
Does it mean every single presentation you give, everyone will love you, remember everything and give
you what you want, but it does mean that you will have done your best.
Good luck with all your presentations in life.
I'm T.J. Walker.
Thanks for being a part of this course.

--- Rehearse Your Presentation Skills Homework and Get Instant Feedback ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Your Message Can Move Millions ---

Motivational speaking is about talking to a crowd, it could be a crowd of two, could be a crowd of
two thousand two hundred thousand and inspiring them through your words, through your own personal
story of how to do great things, how you've done great things, how you've accomplished things in life,
and how they can accomplish things in life.
That's what you have to be if you want to be a motivational speaker.
It's not simply about presenting facts, presenting data, PowerPoint slides, making a rational argument.
You have to have substance, but you have to have emotion fused together in a way that really makes
people understand you but feel they have to connect with you, the head and the heart level.
That's what makes a great motivational speaker.
I'm going to walk you through step by step now.
The things you need to do to put together your own motivational speech and to get the skill set you
need in order to deliver it.

--- How to Make Sure You Have a Motivating Message ---

My first question for you is, are people genuinely motivated by you, people who know you, people
who work with you, family, friends?
Is there something about you that is inspiring?
Because it's very hard to just cook this up.
It's not simply a matter of writing something out, practicing performance skills.
There's got to be something there.
So the first thing I'm going to ask you to do is really examine your life, the things you've overcome.
What adversity have you made it through?
What about it that you've done is impressive to people.
Now, if you were born as one famous motivational speaker was to a one parent family labeled --
poor, and you went on to have success in politics and media.
Well, that's a very inspirational story.
How do you go from down here to way up here?
That's obviously inspirational.
And I'm talking about Les Brown.
On the other hand, what if you're born on Park Avenue?
A wealthy, wealthy parents want all the finest schools, the greatest education, and you ended up
rich.
That's not very motivational to most people because they can't relate to that.
And they think, well, you already started life on third base.
But Michael Eisner, the former CEO of Disney, is in fact a motivational speaker at conferences because
he didn't just go on to be an investment banker.
He took the Walt Disney Company and made it many, many times larger and innovated there.
So for people who care about the entertainment industry, he's a motivational speaker.
So my first thing I really want you to reflect on is what exactly is it about you that people find motivational?
It's harder and harder these days to simply go to other motivational speaker, read all the books,
cobble something together and put yourself out there.
It can be done, but it's much, much harder.
So that's my first question.
What about you to other people who know you already find motivating, write that down in a sentence
or two.

--- Finding What Is So Special About You ---

Next question I have for you, and it's related to the last segment, what's special about you?
What exactly is it about you that you think people should listen to?
Let's face it, most people in the world are pretty similar.
They don't want to hear a speech from someone who is exactly like they are who is in the same station
in life.
So you've got to hear what is special about you.
You've got to really isolate that.
Part of that is people have to understand how are you worse off than they were?
Now, you look at some of the great motivational speakers, they've gone on to great success after being
in car crashes and don't have use of their limbs or they've been burned victims and they've still gone
on to lead happy, successful lives or they were labeled disabled, mentally challenged.
And yes, back in the 70s, some of them were labeled with the R word, how have you overcome something?
There is a structure in most motivational speeches.
Someone talks about how low they were, how bad they were and how they overcame their challenge.
And if they can do it and they are worse off than you are, how hard could it be for you?
That is the basic structure of most motivational speeches.
Now, let me define a motivational speech can be sort of the generic all things to all people.
And I don't mean this in any disrespectful way.
The Anthony Robbins style speeches, the Ziggler before he passed away.
There can also be a very, very industry specific.
I mean, before Steve Jobs passed away, when he was speaking, unveiling a new product, he was clearly
a motivational speaker.
He was motivating people around the world to buy that iPad, to buy that iPhone.
So there are different types of motivational speakers.
You got to determine exactly what it is, is your style.
Now, you can't be a Steve Jobs style motivational speaker unless you create a software company that's
worth billions and everyone knows and respects.
That's not quite true.
You can have success in your own community in a much smaller scale and tell the tale of how you succeeded.
But again, there needs to be some component there about struggle and how, at least temporarily, you
were a lot worse off than the average person in your audience.
It can't simply be.
Well, I graduated from Choate and then I was first in my class at Harvard, then I was first in my
class at Harvard Business School, and then I was hired by Goldman Sachs.
And then I retired at 40 with two hundred million dollars in my bank account.
Someone like that might have some interesting things to say that can motivate people in the finance
world.
That probably isn't going to have that common touch to be a motivational speaker, to speak to thousands
of people, students, people at large rallies.
So that's my challenge to you.
Now, what is it about you that really makes you special, whether or not your friends or family or
colleagues know it?
What is it you think makes you special?
And what was that actual struggle that's taken place that you overcame?
And then how specifically were you at some point in your life?
A lot worse off than the average person?
These are key elements in most motivational speeches.
So reflect on that.
Write your answers down to those questions now.

--- Years later, They Will Remember Your Story ---

Now, we got to get to the meat of you being a motivational speaker, and that is your story because
let's face it, most messages from motivational speakers are roughly the same.
The messages typically look at me.
I was way down here.
I had all this adversity, all these things going against me.
But through hard work, determination, being lucky, smart, finding a good team, belief in God,
belief an atheist, whatever it is, I was able to overcome that challenge.
And now I've become really successful.
And if I can do it with all this adversity around me, not having my arms being labeled mentally deficient,
having a reading disability, I could do it with all these things.
Those are common things.
Famous motivational speakers mentioned.
If I can overcome my challenges, it's got to be pretty easy for you because you don't have those.
And hence the person in the audience feels, wow, he's right.
If I just do this a little better, this I can accomplish my dream.
That's I don't mean to sound condescending towards motivational speakers.
There's a need at certain conferences, conventions, moments in life for motivational speakers with
that message.
But when you say motivational speaker in general, that's what people mean.
Someone who can do that make people feel good about it.
And it's all about the context.
If you're the motivational speaker at an annual sales convention of software salespeople, then you're
being hired to motivate these people to sell 10 times as much software as usual, not necessarily motivating
them to lose weight.
So what you got to focus on now is what is your story?
I want to know what the problem was in your life.
How did you overcome it?
How did you feel about it?
Who are the other people?
Bring in some actual dialogue, describe the setting.
There are a lot of different types of motivational speakers in the world, but the one thing they all
have in common is they have their story.
And you've got to even Donald Trump now, I mentioned in an earlier lecture, if you're just born rich
and now you're rich, that's not that motivational.
Donald Trump has motivational speeches.
He gives and he talks about how at one point earlier in his career, his net worth was minus a billion
dollars and how he came back.
So everybody faces some adversity in life, you've got to figure out what is your story?
It's the fundamental building block of any motivational speech, because motivational speeches are not
primarily about lots and lots of concepts, lots of numbers, lots of new information.
You're trying to connect with people intellectually, but also emotionally, in fact, more emotionally
than intellectually.
And that's the power of the story.
I want to know exactly what your story was, because everybody has a story.
Every successful person has a story on how they got there.
I want to know exactly what yours is.

--- Your Process Goes Like This ---

Early in my career in the early 90s, I was going on a talk radio show in South Florida.
The host was well known.
We'll call him Mr. Stic.
So Mr. Stic is interviewing me.
We're talking about the politics of the day.
He's asking me a question about presidential politics.
I start to respond.
Next thing I know, he pulls the microphone out of my hand.
Mr. Walker, I have more respect for a Klansman than I do for you.
I hadn't said anything that I thought was particularly remarkable or worthy of his contempt.
And I also think of myself why I'm a tough person and because I've been a media trainer for years already.
I've been a talk show host.
So I'm pulling the microphone back.
I'm pulling it back.
Yeah.
But what I really think before I could say anything else, this host reaches under the table, pulls
out a gun.
Now, do you see my point, Mr. Walker?
It's talk radio in South Florida.
Nobody can see the gun.
Nobody can see me.
So he's asked me this question.
Do you know what I said?
Not much of anything, it was not one of my finest moments, I guess at some point I finally said,
yeah, I see your point.
I was a stammering pool of jelly at that point.
It was intimidating.
He was he going to use it?
I don't know.
But it was clearly an intimidating tactic.
But, you know, I got through the interview.
I did leave the station.
I even went back to that station two weeks later and guest hosted other talk shows.
I stayed away from that host.
I still think he's crazy, but I love speaking.
I love communicating.
I love going in the media and helping other people speak to.
So I didn't let it slow me down.
Here's the good news.
Every talk show I've ever done since every media interview I've ever done since has been a piece of
cake.
So that's my story when I'm trying to motivate a group of communicators.
Because in the world of public relations, media training, I'm respected, I'm well known.
So I'm occasionally a motivational speaker to that audience.
So that's my story happens to be a true story.
And there's a message to it which is nobody's born being naturally articulate all the time.
Nobody's born knowing how to ace every media interview.
I've had horrible interviews, but I've overcome it to go on thousands of other talk shows and news
interviews and national TV, hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of times.
So if I can be that bad in an interview and overcome it, perhaps so can you.
But then I go through a process.
I have a very, very specific process that I go through to help people master media interviews, very
specific steps on how to look good on TV, how to frame messages, how to package messages with sound
bytes, a process that can be duplicated by others.
It's lessons I learned the hard way, but thought about it and then systematized it.
That's what the best motivational speaker is now.
You may love him or hate him, but that's what Anthony Robbins does.
He gives people he doesn't just tell the stories.
He then gives people step by step processes that they can duplicate.
So that's my challenge to you.
What is it that you learned from your experiences that you can now systematize and make it easier for
people to follow in a step by step way so they don't have to learn the hard way, as Warren Buffett,
the great financial investor and manager is?
One said, smart people don't learn from their mistakes.
They learn from other people's mistakes.
You want your audience to learn from your mistakes so they don't have to have the years of struggle,
the humiliating experiences.
They can be more successful faster.
So you've already come up with your story.
Now, I want to know the process.
And if you need a page for this, take a page for this.
But I want you to write down a process.
It can't simply be work hard, get in earlier and stay later.
If people have heard that a thousand times, it has to be something that's unique, that's different,
that strikes people as, oh, I could do that, but I've never thought of it quite that way.
So this is the hard part.
If you need an hour to do this, if you need a couple of days to do this, but if you try to rush this
part, you're not going to be a successful motivational speaker.
So write down that page now.

--- Bringing Clarity to Your Messages ---

Now, you must really open yourself up to criticism.
It's time for you to take that video that your friends have critiqued and ideally you've made changes,
so you've continued to improve it.
And now you've got to post that video on YouTube.
Now, here's the thing about YouTube.
These people are not your friends.
I have more than ten thousand videos on YouTube and you get all sorts of comments.
You get some praise, some fans, some insightful comments, and you get a lot of nasty, vile hate.
And you have people at least I have people.
So your eyes are beating, you're bored, you're ugly, you're stupid, you're full.
You're this year you get a lot of nonsense.
You're going to have to weed through all that because you will get some insightful feedback and it'll
toughen you up, too.
And sometimes the criticism will be cheap and trashy.
Sometimes it will hurt.
But there will be a valid, valid point embedded in the nastiness.
You have to look at it all.
So that's your next step.
You don't have a YouTube channel.
Make it now.
It costs nothing to upload your video that you're proud of because you've incorporated the changes that
you thought needs to be made and your friends, family, colleagues suggested you have a video of yourself
speaking.
It's OK that it's just you in a room.
Nothing wrong with that.
And put it out to the world.
That's your next step.

--- Master Storytelling ---

Now, in a previous lecture and homework assignment, you came up with your story, your number one
signature story, but you now have five ideas, which means you need five stories.
You need one story for each message point, because here's something all great motivational leaders
understand.
Audiences do not remember messages, ideas, fax numbers unless it's packaged with a story.
Now, not every story has to be as dramatic as someone pointing a gun at you or being near death or
losing your legs.
It just has to be interesting and talk about a struggle you had and how you overcame it.
So this may take a while, but again, if you don't have this, you're not going to have speech.
I need you to come up with a story for each one of your five message points.
Each story needs to involve a character you ideally, although it could involve another party, but
it needs to evolve, ideally a conversation you have with one other real person dialogue.
What you said back and forth, where you were, what the problem was, what the conflict was, how it
was resolved, how you felt about it and the lesson from that.
So that's what I need you to do, write these stories.
Don't worry about memorizing it, but at least write down enough words so that you cover all those categories.
This is absolutely essential.
Do not skip this and go to the next lecture.
Come up with your story.
You simply don't have stories.
Then you got to ask yourself, is that message really important?
If you only know this message at a conceptual level, like what anyone could find in the textbook,
no one needs to hear you talk about.
So dig deep.
Look for these stories.

--- Stagecraft ---

If you've done what I've asked so far, you should have five messages, you should have stories for
each one, you should have one signature story that really spells out your biggest point, and you should
have a sense of how you can help people.
What the process is that you've done to help you overcome challenges and how other people can do it
to you should have all that.
Well, now it's time to give the speech now stagecraft, meaning how you look, move, sound on the
stage, even if you're just in a small room at the same level of people is insanely important for a
motivational speaker.
Now, the reason for this is that so many motivational speeches have essentially the same message.
And that is I had a challenge.
I had problems.
I overcame it through X, Y and Z, working hard, surrounding myself with best people being disciplined.
So can you the message is so similar in many motivational speeches.
It's the stagecraft that will differentiate you.
So it's not enough to be competent.
It's not enough to have your jacket buttoned and go through PowerPoint slides professionally.
No, no, no.
You've got to be compelling.
You've got to be interesting.
You've got to be dynamic.
How do you do that?
Well, let's start out slow.
Simply give your speech, videotape it and take a look and see what you think.
Because if you're just standing there or if you're grabbing a lectern or you're reading notes or you're
reading bullet points off of a PowerPoint and then going to work, by the way, they have using PowerPoint,
fine.
You better not be reading text off of your PowerPoint.
You have to be focused on your audience.
You've got to be looking at your audience at all times or at least ninety eight percent of the time.
And you need movement, not pacing, not fidgeting, but you need to move around the stage and appear
to be supremely comfortable, confident, relaxed.
I'll give you more tips on your stagecraft, but for now, I want you to give a speech and it can be
just in your own room, your bedroom, your office, and it can be just putting your cell phone on the
wall, capturing it or a friend doing it.
But I want us to do this first draft together, and I want you to watch how you look and how you sound
and grade yourself.
And after you've done that, watch it again without the audio on and tell me what you think.

--- YouTube Role Models ---

If you want to be a great motivational speaker, the good news is you have fantastic role models all
over the world, but they're right in front of you at your fingertips.
All you have to do is type names on YouTube and you can see great motivational speakers doing what they
do best speaking.
So that's your homework here.
Go to YouTube, type in motivational speakers.
If you have those you already like, type them in and look at them and look at a whole range.
Look at the Anthony Robbins, the Zeigler's, look at left wing ones, right wing ones, non-religious
ones.
Joel Osteen is a fantastic speaker, whether you agree with his message or not.
So I would urge you to really study the craft of what they do.
Look at how they frame their arguments, their stories, more important than arguments, their emotion
and study how they pause.
The best speakers in the world typically pause the most.
That doesn't mean you can just come out and say nothing for five minutes and a half.
But I want you to look at every single thing about how they come across, look at the ones you like
the most, and then watch that video maybe five or six times.
You'll learn something new each time when you're not listening to the words as carefully look at how
they use the whole stage.
I saw Ziggler a few years before he passed away on a stage in front of fifteen thousand people in a
huge arena in New Jersey, and he was a master at the stage.
He used every inch of the stage of his height.
There was just constant variation and how he looked, how he moved and how he sounded.
You can learn from that even if you think the message was full of baloney.
So that's your homework.
Spend some time on YouTube, seek out the best.
She got people you don't think are the best.
And you know what?
Learn from the worst.
Do I urge you type in Chris Farley, Saturday Night Live impersonation of motivational speaker and you'll
see something hilarious.
And it's really mocking sort of the worst aspects of motivational speaker.
So that's your homework right now.
Find some speakers across range and then come up with two or three are absolute favorite and try to
watch every speech they've given.

--- Video Rehearse ---

You studied the Masters, you've learned from your idols on YouTube, you've thought of your messages,
you've come up with stories, it's now time to practice in much greater detail.
I want you to, first of all, make it simple for yourself.
Give yourself a single one page outline by making it one page, having large font.
You're not going to have to turn pages.
You're not going to stop put on glasses and do that.
You can simply have it on a table next to a glass of water.
You can even have some on the floor.
When you're on an elevated stage, no one will know you're using notes.
I want you to video record yourself.
And if you have to just turn your webcam on and walk ten feet away.
Worst case scenario, just turn your cell phone on, lean it up against a bookcase, have it on.
You've just got to be able to see yourself.
But I need you to video record your entire speech and then watch it.
And I know some of you don't want to do that.
I got to tell you, there's no great motivational speaker in the world who hasn't watched himself or
herself a thousand times.
You've got to really know exactly what you're doing in order to refine it, to make it better and better
and better.
So watch the video, record the video, watch it and make a very, very specific list.
Here's everything you like.
Here's everything you don't like.
Do that now.

--- Video Refine ---

You've spoken you have video recorded that you've watched it, you've critiqued it now, well, look
at that list of stuff you like in your speech, stuff you don't like.
Do the speech again on video this time, try to do more of the stuff you like and less of the stuff
you don't like.
And here's the key.
I need you to keep doing this until the likes are way up here and the dislikes are way down here south
of you.
You may be able to do it in one, take others.
It may take 50 takes.
If you want to be a serious motivational speaker, it doesn't matter how many times it takes.
Might be a thousand takes.
Keep practicing on video until you can look at that video and say, wow, that's a good speaker.
That weren't me I would listen to.
That's going to be half as good as that person.
I'm going to be the star of the motivational speaking circuit.
I need you to do that now.
Don't rush through this, folks.
If you're just sort of going through this course and watching videos from a waste of time, you should
be out playing outside, go for a bike ride.
It would be a better use of your time.
This only helps you if you actually do the exercises.
So again, speak captured on video, figure out what you like, what you don't like.
Keep doing it until you love what you say.

--- Show to Others ---

You've got a video, you're proud of it, you did it again and again and again, you think it's great.
Now let's take it to the next level.
I want you to take that video and send it to your friends, people you trust, people you respect,
people who believe in you, like you, but can give you some honest feedback and you respect their integrity
enough that you think they'll give you honest, straight feedback.
So take that video, email it to them, ask them what do they like, what do they not like, what do
they remember and how do they think you can improve this speech?
So do that right now.

--- Put video on YouTube and Facebook ---

Now it's time to organize your message in a more systematic way, I've tested audiences all over the
world and asked them who's the best speaker you've seen in the last year, the last five years?
Now, how many separate, distinct messages do you remember from that speaker?
And this includes motivational speaker is it includes business gurus, trainings, all types of speakers.
And in the many, many years I've asked that question thousands of times, people often say, oh, I
don't remember anything.
Remember the person style, they were funny or sometimes one point, occasionally two, sometimes three.
Every once in a while someone will remember for ideas.
And once every six months I'll find somebody who remembers five key ideas from the best speaker they've
seen in their life.
I've never actually encountered anyone who remembered more than five ideas, so I'm a big believer it's
kind of a waste of time to try to convey more than five ideas in a motivational speech or any other
speech.
Yeah, you can convey a lot more in your book, but not in your speech.
So that's what I want you to do right now.
You've got tons and tons of great ideas and all sorts of things you did to be successful.
I need you to put them in priority, write down on a piece of paper or a computer screen.
Every single idea you would want to communicate with an audience, then put them in priority and then
narrow it down to just five ideas.

--- Tell the World ---

You posted your video on YouTube.
You're starting to get feedback.
Read it all, no matter how much it hurts.
But now we've got to go to the next step.
Now you've got to put yourself out to the whole world even more.
You've got to announce to the world that you're a motivational speaker and that you are happy to speak
at your events and your conferences and your meetings.
So you need to start telling friends, family, people on Facebook, on LinkedIn, on Twitter, every
single social media outlet that you're in.
You need to let people know you are a speaker and that you are available for hire.
They can reach you.
Here's a video of you on YouTube.
One quick word, though.
You might not want to use the word motivational speaker.
Many of the most popular motivational speakers in the world don't go by that phrase motivational speaking
because they consider it somewhat downgraded and they think of the Chris Farley stereotype caricature.
So some people call them peak performance experts.
Some people are entrepreneurial experts.
Some people are high tech experts.
You can motivate in any single field.
You've got to determine how you want to position yourself.
The point is, let the world know.
Let your whole contact base know that you are available and they can reach out to you.
They can hire you when you're just beginning.
You should be happy to speak for free.
And these days you can do it through Skype video without having to go anywhere.
So go ahead, do that and announce to the world you are a speaker.

--- Speaker Bureaus ---

You've got a speech, you've told the world you're a speaker, now all you have to do is sit back and
wait for the phone to ring from those speaker bureaus.
Right.
Sorry, it's not that easy.
In fact, speaker bureaus are not going to call you unless you're already famous from something else.
If you are retiring, NBA star catcher, speaker bureaus will call it.
If you're not a household name, speaker bureaus will not call you.
Well, that's OK.
I'll just call it now.
At this stage of your career, it is a complete, utter waste of time to reach out to speaker bureaus.
They will be interested in you after you have a very solid track record of speaking for substantial
fees, at least five thousand dollars per speech for several years.
And there's a proven track record then and only then will speaker viewers be interested in you.
So don't waste your time chasing the elusive speaker because they are not the answers to your questions
these days.
People look for speakers all over the place and your own contacts on Twitter, Facebook, on YouTube,
people who know you, people who read your blog.
Those are the people if you're putting out the right message, who are likely to engage you as a professional
speaker.
So for now, just put aside the whole speaker bureau.
At some point they may be an important part of what you do, but you need to have a real track record,
give a whole lot of speeches, make a bunch of money before the economics make sense for speaker bureaus.

--- Conclusion to Motivational Speaking Section ---

Thanks for joining me in this course on how to be a motivational speaker.
I hope you've learned some things and it's giving you a direction that you can follow if you want to
pursue your dream of being a motivational speaker.
But please keep in mind, every speaker is a motivational speaker at some level.
Every CEO, every politician, every nonprofit leader, every civic leader is trying to motivate people
to do something.
So no matter what you end up doing with your life, if you're a full time motivational speaker on the
stage in front of ten thousand people or you're a community activist or you're an entrepreneur who just
talks to clients, great speaking is always motivational.
And any skills you've learned here are going to help you in every aspect of your life and your career.
Good luck.

--- The Real Reason Why You Hate Public Speaking-And What You Can Do About It-Now ---

If you hate public speaking, it just means you're normal.
Most people can't stand public speaking, so don't worry about it.
But you should learn how to give an OK presentation.
You should learn how to get through it.
Because let's face it, there's so many opportunities in life, in business, in political life, cultural
life, your own career, your own life opportunities.
You're going to lose out on it if you can't give a basic speech.
Now, I'm going to teach you if you follow these steps one at a time, the simplest, fastest way to
get through this speech at least must at least fuss.
So pay attention and hop.

--- You Will Accomplish Your Public Speaking Goals ---

That's it there was it that hard again, to recap, all you have to do is ask yourself, what's my goal
from this presentation?
Again, not trying to win a standing ovation, not trying to go on the speaking circuit, but what is
my goal?
Do I want this customer to make this purchase?
Do I want an approval for this budget?
What's the goal?
Brainstorm on your message is narrow it down to the top five.
Have an example for each one.
If you use PowerPoint, throw a whole lot of text that you email or hand out to people, but only project
one image per slot.
And then finally, with a cheat sheet, practice your speech on video to the point where you do that
and you are ready.
Now, by the way, these are the same techniques people can use to be great speakers.
But I hope I've given you the simplest, fastest, easiest way to do it.
And you can get through this speech.
Now, if you always hate public speaking, that's fine.
But one of the things you'll find is if you do a good job, you're actually going to get more positive
feedback and you'll start to enjoy public speaking.
I'm T.J. Walker.
Thanks for joining me.

--- It's Not About You; It's About Your Message ---

Now we have to figure out what to say in this speech you're going to give we can do this the hard way
are we can do this the easy way.
I'm going to assume you want to do it the easy way.
The hard way, which is what most people do and why most people hate public speaking is they try to
gather every single fact in the entire world that they could say on the subject.
So if they're giving a quarterly report on how their division did, they're trying to gather every single
sales to store data, everything that's happened, every blip, every fact.
And they're cramming it all in this PowerPoint they want to speak with.
That's hard work.
You want it the easy way out.
I'm going to give it to you.
Here's what I need you to do.
Brainstorm on every message you could possibly say on this subject.
Narrow it down to the top five.
Why five?
It's because I actually test audiences all over the world.
I've never found an audience to remember more than five key ideas from the best speaker in the world.
You only want to get to be average or above mediocre.
The best speakers in the world only communicate five ideas.
So let's narrow it down.
The big mistake, of course, most people try to communicate fifty one hundred ideas.
They communicate nothing.
So let's just cut right to the chase.
Focus on your five ideas, write those down one sentence for each one, ten words or less.
Write it down.
Let's make it simple, folks.
This is not the time for an 80 page PowerPoint.
Five points, ten words or less.

--- You Can Breath Life Into Your Speech By Doing This ---

You've got your five points now, we have to flesh it out because you can't just stand up, give five
points in 10 seconds and sit down.
That's not really a speech or a presentation.
So what are we going to do?
You need to flesh out each one of these message points with an example.
Now, it doesn't have to be this emotional, exciting story where you're walking around the room and
I'm not asking you to do that.
I just want a specific example of each one of the points.
So if sales are down two percent and everything was flat except for one particular product freezer's
and you just couldn't sell them because it was minus five degrees out, tell the story about why Frayser
sales went down.
Give the example of the specific product that went down so people can understand it.
Here's the funny thing about people.
It doesn't matter how smart they are, how many PhDs they have, how capable they are, abstract thought
what people are listening to you present.
They might understand your abstract concepts, but they don't visualize it.
Therefore, they don't remember it.
People need a specific example to visualize it in their mind, so they remember your presentation.
Now, keep in mind, we do want people to remember our messages.
We don't necessarily want people running up to us afterwards say, oh my God, you've got to quit your
job and become a professional motivational speaker.
That's not what this is about.
I'm not trying to pressure you into that.
But I do want you to focus on the goal.
You want people to take the actions you want, which is give you a promotion, a promotion, approve
a budget, not eliminate your division.
Any time you speak.
You are trying to get people to do something.
They need to know what your message was, that they need to remember it in order for that to happen.
And that's why it's critically important for you to have an example.
Fleshing out each one of your points, if you can't think of an example, probably isn't an important
point.
Just get rid of the point.

--- Your PowerPoint Will Educate, Not Bore ---

PowerPoint, I know you don't want to do with PowerPoint, PowerPoint is so boring, it's so awful,
but what do you do if all the other colleagues in your office or your organization are using PowerPoint
and you feel pressure to use PowerPoint?
Well, I'm going to give you some tips to make this easy, painless, so you can just get through it,
OK?
Again, there's the hard way, the easy way, the hard way is to do it.
Most people do gather lots and lots and lots of data, rearrange all the bullet points on a PowerPoint
program, change the font message.
And next thing you know, you spent 30 hours on it and it's this God awful stew.
And if you sat there and read it, your eyes would glaze over and everyone would fall asleep.
I don't want to do that to you because, again, we're just trying to be above average.
But if we do that, we're going to be right at average or below average.
We want to get through this and still accomplish our goals.
So here's what I would recommend.
Let's go back to your outline.
You have five points.
You have five sentences.
You've got an example for each one.
I want you to come up with some visual that makes the point.
So if you're talking about sales are down at all this because Freezer's didn't have a picture of just
that freezer and then maybe outside snow.
So people realized it was too cold to buy the freezers in the winter quarter.
And you can do this by just go to Google, type in the word hit images and then pick one that's rights
free where it's OK for you to use it, not violate copyright and stick that in your PowerPoint.
You're good to go project that.
So if you have five ideas, that would mean five slides.
Now, you're probably thinking, well, if I do that, people are going to complain that I was frivolous.
I didn't have all my substance behind me.
So here's what you do to avoid criticism.
All that data you would normally put in the PowerPoint project, gather the data, put it in either
a word document or a PDF.
It doesn't matter, and hand it to people or pass it out.
Do that and you'll be in good shape.
Do that right now.

--- Use the Ethical Public Speaking Cheat Sheet ---

Here's my next tip for you, I want you to cheat.
That's right, I'm not suggesting anything unethical, but I do want you to have on a single sheet of
paper your notes and just put it in big, bold font so you can read it without having to put your.
Glasses on and fumbling with papers, you want your notes on a single sheet of paper and you want it
in large font.
Now if you say, well, T.J., it doesn't fit, I'm going to need five pages.
What that tells me is you failed at the earlier exercises of narrowing your message down to five key
points.
You cannot educate someone on every aspect of your new business or what your division has done in the
last quarter and a standard speech or presentation.
Don't try to.
So you've got to be able to condense it to a single sheet, preferably something that'll fit on a half
sheet and then have it on a desk, a lectern, a table, and your hands can be free.
Now, again, I'm not asking you to walking around and gesturing and all that.
It's fine to stay behind a lectern.
We just want to get through this presentation.
But it's so much easier to be looking at people.
And that way, if we do mess up or screw up, they're going to perceive you as confident and relaxed
because you were looking at them and you weren't burning your face in notes and that sort of thing.
So I want you to have a cheat sheet, large font, and you should have your five key points, the example
for each point.
And if you're going to use PowerPoint, put a reminder on that cheat sheet so you know exactly what
it is.
So you're not having to use your PowerPoint as your notes come up with your cheat sheet right now.

--- You Aren't going to Like This, But It Is What Matters Most - Video Practice ---

There's only one step left in this course, and I'm going to try to make it as brief and painless as
possible so we can get through this speech together.
But I'm going to warn you right now, you're not going to like what I'm going to ask you to do.
But all the tips in this case, it is far and away the most important thing.
And it's also really, really easy to do, doesn't require any skill.
You just have to make the decisions to do it.
And here is what it is.
I want you to get your notes, give your presentation, pull out your cell phone and record yourself
speaking or use your webcam.
I know.
I know you don't want to look at yourself.
You don't want to hear your voice.
Tell everyone in your audience has to look.
I could say I don't want to look at myself.
I don't like my hairline or I don't like my beady eyes.
Well, you have to see my hairline and my beady eyes, so I might as well see it.
I'm not making it harder for anyone else to see my flaws just because I don't look at a video.
So this is far and away the most important thing to do.
You need to practice on video and you need to watch it.
You need to know exactly how you're coming across.
If you can watch it once and you think, OK, that's all right, I'm going to give myself a C plus,
I'm better than average.
I'm fine.
Good to go.
But you've got the confidence you need.
You're ready.
You have to do any more work.
Go watch TV now.
OK, but if you look at the video and you think, wow, this person just isn't making sense or I can't
hear this person or there's something really missing that it's time to go back to your notes, change
things, add something, refine it.
So again, this isn't about you winning the World Toastmasters Championship for best speaker in the
world.
This is just about us getting through.
But you are a good judge of speakers.
You've been watching speakers your entire life in business and school educators, teachers, religious
leaders.
We've all seen thousands and thousands of speakers.
So you're a pretty good judge of speakers.
So you've got to video.
Looking in a mirror doesn't work.
It's frankly a waste of time.
You look in the mirror and you can say, gosh, is my nose crooked?
I'm getting another wrinkle, a complete waste of time talking in front of people and visualizing them
naked.
Complete waste of time depending on your audience.
That's either too exciting or too disgusting.
Don't do it.
I want you to practice, but you've got to know you don't want to.
But you'll learn a lot.
You might be surprised.
It might be a lot better than you thought, which will in turn give you confidence and make this whole
process a lot easier.
Or it may show some flaws and it's a whole lot better to make a screw up, but no one's around and you
can correct it rather than doing something awful in front of the live audience.
So that is your homework right now.
Don't click out of this and go to the next lesson I need you.
If you do nothing else for this cause, do this one thing, practice your presentation on video and
watch it and do it again until you like it.

--- Concluding Thoughts for People Who Hate Public Speaking ---

First, a little perspective, you may think you're awful, the public speaking, you hate public speaking
fine, but realize most other people do, too.
And because of that, most people are awful speakers, so it doesn't take much to really stand out.
Is OK better than average?
Quite acceptable.
So you've got to tell yourself remind yourself that.
And it takes some of the stress off.
If this were golf, it's not about hitting par or breaking a 100.
It's more like, can you break two hundred?
If it's ice skating, it's not about can you do perfect pirouettes and spin around and triple axle spins?
It's about can you sort of crawl around the side of the ice skating rink without falling down and breaking
any bones?
That's really what we're trying to accomplish here when it comes to speaking.
So here's the first assignment I need you to write down in one sentence.
What is the goal of your presentation?
For every presentation you give, you've got to have a clear cut set goal that has to be fancy, doesn't
have to be flowery.
Does it have to be memorable just in one sentence?
What is it you want this audience to do?

--- Each Team Member Must Be Interesting and Memorable - Presentation Skills ---

Once you determine exactly what the goal is from this presentation, what you want the people you're
presenting to to do now, you have to ask yourself what is going to motivate them to do that?
What's going to drive them on that?
And I want you to brainstorm together with your team.
You may come up with 50 ideas, one hundred ideas, but then I need you to edit it down to put things
in priority, to use your discretion and come up with the top five ideas, not five big themes, with
twenty seven different points underneath each one, but five main ideas you really want to focus on
in this present, even if it's a two hour presentation I want you to focus on.
The reason I pick five is I test audiences all over the world all the time to tell me everything that
I remember from presentations, individual presentations and group presentations.
I never find anyone who remembers more than a handful of ideas.
And sometimes it's one or two ideas.
And unfortunately, the most common thing people remember from group presentations is it was all sort
of boring.
They're going through the PowerPoint.
We'll look at the PowerPoint later.
That's unfortunately the main thing people remember.
So for right now, brainstorm with your team members on the top five ideas.
These are the things you absolutely, positively have to have, the people you're speaking to remember.

--- Your Presentation Goals Will Be Identified and Accomplished ---

The first thing you and your team had to do before planning your whole presentation is to step back
a minute and ask yourselves what is the actual goal of this presentation?
What action do we want the audience members to do after our presentation is over?
Now you're giving a new business pitch.
You want a contract or you want them to at least ask you for a formal proposal.
So I know this sounds obvious and you're reviewing all the information to be this basic in this class.
But I've seen countless, countless group presentations where you just get lost.
It's like they're trying to tell you every single thing about their business that's happened every week
for twenty nine straight quarters.
And people are kind of left saying, huh?
And you've got to have that clarity at the beginning.
What is it you want people to do and work back from that as opposed to telling people every single thing
your organization does and what every single division does?
So start with that.
Try to write it down in one sentence.
What's the goal of this group presentation?

--- Spell Out Benefits for Your Audience Public Speaking ---

When you're coming up with a message for your speech, your presentation, you constantly have to look
at it from two tracks.
How are you connecting with people, appealing to people with their head at the head level, the intellectual
level?
And how about at the heart level?
How are you connecting at the emotional level?
You've got to have ideas that do both.
Now, if all you do is communicate emotionally, then maybe you're a demagogue.
If all you do is communicate at the intellectual level, then chances are it may fall flat unless someone
is a student in your classroom.
But great communicators consistently communicate at both the head and heart level.
So when you're coming up with your messages and that's why there's the importance of stories and examples,
you always have to be thinking about communicating on these two tracks, the head and the heart.

--- Don't Make Your Speech a Data Dump Public Speaking ---

It's the number one problem most speakers have everywhere in the world.
The problem is they turn their speech into a massive data dump, it's like they were told you got to
give this presentation a month.
So they grab a wheelbarrow, start going around the office, gathering every stack of paper, every
stack of books, going to people's offices, saying, give me all your power points.
On a similar subject from a month ago.
They walk into the boardroom the day of the speech, and now the wheelbarrow is stacked 10 feet high
and they're thinking, hmm, what do I leave in?
What do I leave out if I leave this at Smithers making plan, if I leave this out?
Well, Mary could accuse me of leaving something out.
You know what?
Why don't I play it safe and just dump everything in and speak really quickly.
I can get it all in.
How does that make you feel when someone does that and they're just speaking quickly, fact after fact,
maybe a whole bunch of boring PowerPoint slides.
It just doesn't work.
It's overwhelming.
And most of us tune out.
So what do we do?
We check our email and the latest movie review, or if it's our boss and we're on the front row, we've
perfected the technique of appearing to be looking right there at the boss paying attention.
But really, our mind is thinking, hmm, Halloween is tonight and do I have my costume set?
What time does it again?
Our mind is a million miles away.
That's the problem with doing a data dump.
It simply does not work.
Every medium has its strengths and weaknesses.
A book, a textbook, a newspaper can be a great way of communicating lots and lots of data when you're
speaking.
It's a great way of showing your importance.
You're feeling your motion for something, putting a spotlight on it.
But it's not particularly an effective way of creating lots and lots of data and having it stick in
your audiences brain.
So you simply cannot do whatever you do.
You've got to avoid the data dump.

--- Time to Assign Topics to Your Team ---

So you've isolated your five key concepts, now you've got to divvy up the responsibilities, I would
recommend that each person no more than one main point.
Now, if you've got 10 people giving the presentation, you've got two people per point to flesh out.
Different aspects of it are different examples.
If you have three people, then two of them hit a couple of points.
What you don't want to do is have each person try to cover everything and be duplicative and cover the
same topics.
And which you don't want to do is have each person try to explain every single part of their little
niche, their little kingdom.
So that's what you've got to decide now.
Make assignments, decide who exactly is going to talk about what, and let's figure out the order.
Who's going to start off.
You want your strongest presenter to start and your strongest or your second strongest to finish.
Both are critically important.
And let's figure out some order here.
So come up with the points, divvy it up, figure out a logical order that makes sense.
Do this before starting a single PowerPoint slide.
The worst thing you could possibly do is just start typing so that people know, hey folks, we've got
thirty five slides now we got the presentation.
Now let's figure out who does what.
If you do that approach, you are guaranteed failure.
Start with the messages, figure out the order, give the assignments.
We'll worry about the PowerPoint later.

--- How Many Points Should Your Presentation Cover Public Speaking ---

What's the best number of messages to try to communicate when you're giving a speech or presentation?
Before I answer that, I want you to think for a minute.
Think of the best speaker you've heard in your industry where you were there in the same room.
Think of the best speaker you've heard in the last year or the last five years.
Now, tell me how many messages you remember from that presentation.
And I don't mean that you like the person style.
They're funny or they walked around the room or engaged or what.
They're I don't mean any of that.
I mean the actual content.
How many messages do you remember?
Think about it now, I've asked that question of clients all over the world for years and years and
years, and quite often I ask people that and they say, you did.
I don't remember anything.
I guess my memory isn't very good.
Well, their memories aren't worse than anyone else's.
Sometimes people will remember one idea, and this could be from the greatest speaker they saw yesterday
occasionally to ideas, sometimes three ideas.
Every few months someone will remember for ideas.
And then once every six months I'll actually have a client remember five ideas, literally a handful
of ideas.
And for more than a decade when I've asked that people that question, I've never had anyone really
remember more than about a minute's worth of content, a handful of ideas from the best speaker they've
seen in the last year to five years.
So that's why I tell you, don't be greedy.
Don't go into a presentation trying to communicate 50, 60, 70 ideas and these PowerPoint slides with
39 bullet points on each one.
It's simply not going to work.
I would recommend you try to communicate no more than five big ideas, maybe three get five would put
you into the world class category.
If you don't think you're the world's best speaker, then you may very well want to narrow it down to
fewer, even three.
So keep this in mind.
So much of being a great speaker has nothing to do with your voice or your hand gestures or your eye
contact.
So much of being a good speaker has to do with simply being a better editor and deciding in advance
which message points are got to haves versus nice to have.
If it's a nice to have, email it to people, give it as a handout, but don't try to cover it in your
actual presentation.

--- Each Person Must Prepare This Way ---

There are two dominant problems that affect virtually every single group presentation I've ever seen.
The first big problem is that each person feels compelled to give an incredible data dump to just put
out everything they know on the subject.
And it's boring, it's tedious, it's abstract, it's not memorable.
It goes in one ear and out the other.
The second big problem most group presentations have is they have absolutely awful PowerPoint because
the PowerPoint consists of nothing but bullet points, lots of words.
If there is a charter graph, it's wildly complex because it has 18 different color coded variables.
So it's really easy to be dramatically better than most group presentations if you just don't do those
two things.
Not saying you can't have PowerPoint, not saying you can't deliver some data, especially if it's a
client presentation and you're going over a lot of expensive research they've paid for.
And it's a four hour presentation.
I understand you have to go through some data, but here's the big challenge.
If you're going to give a presentation when you're standing up, whether you're part of five people,
ten people or no people, when you're speaking, people are watching you, they're listening to you.
They're trying to figure out this is interesting, useful pay attention or boring data.
Don't let me tune out.
Let me check my email and I'll read your PowerPoint later.
So you've got to be thinking about that at every second of your group presentation when you're speaking
and when everyone else is speaking.
Do we actually have something being talked about right now that's compelling enough to have someone
say, oh, that's interesting, that's useful, I'll pay attention?
Or is it just kind of boilerplate stuff we have to go through?
You don't want the boilerplate stuff that we kind of have to go through because you're giving people
an out.
You don't want to do that.
So now each one of you is going to have to give a presentation.
I know this sounds mildly contradictory, but right now I want you to sort of go off on your own as
individuals and come up with your speech, your presentation, as if you were going to be speaking alone
in the room and just trying to cover your part, not all the other parts of the group presentation.
So it's time for us to separate and it's time to come up with your own messages, your own examples,
your own stories and your case studies.
Because when you're speaking, you don't have the team behind you.
It's not a group.
It is sink or swim when you are speaking in a presentation.
So you've got to make each individual presentation great.
We'll figure out on the other side how to put these all together and make sure it fleshes together as
a group presentation.
But it doesn't matter how good your group skills are.
If any one individual presentation isn't great, it's going to bring everything down.
In order to have a great group presentation, every single presenter has to do a couple of things.
You have to present in a way that's interesting and understandable.
Have to present in a way that's memorable, you've got to do those two things.
If you don't do those two things, nothing else really matters.
So let's break off now and start working individually on our specific messages and our stories.
And I'll give you more specifics on how to do that in a moment.

--- Writing a Speech Public Speaking ---

What is the best way to write a speech?
Some of you are not going to like this advice, you professional speechwriters are not going to like
this.
But here's my recommendation.
If you actually have to give a speech and my advice is do not write a speech out word for word.
It's different if you're a professional keynote speaker and you're being paid 50000.
It's different if you are a president of a country and people are going to be analyzing and transcribing
every single word.
I'm speaking here primarily to adults who are speaking at business civic occasions.
And here's why I say don't write it out.
It's really hard.
It's time consuming.
If you write it all out and you get a little bit nervous, there's this tendency to start reading.
And what reads well doesn't necessarily sound good to the ear.
My recommendation is come up with bullet points, come up with a list of your top five ideas, your
main ideas, and have a sentence fragment, three, four or five words to remind you of what the concept
is.
If there are a couple of facts, statistics you need listed under that, and then a few words to tell
you a story associated with that and to work from notes and outline, it's much, much more effective
for most people most of the time.
I'm not trying to give something that's a solution for everyone 100 percent of the time.
But if you have to give any sort of business presentation, political speech, anything that is not
in the academic world and you're not a president of a country and whole media world is looking at you,
then I would recommend don't write out the whole speech, come up with ideas, work from a single sheet
of notes, and then practice on video.
Far more important than writing the speech out perfectly.
Word for word.

--- Group PowerPoint ---

Another word about PowerPoint and team presentations, in my experience of far too much energy, is
spent on having the consistent look and the branding destroyed at the bottom and everyone having the
exact same number of bullet points.
That is the wrong approach.
The only reason you're using PowerPoint is to make your ideas more understandable to the audience.
So I'd much rather you use different styles of PowerPoint.
And yet the images you use actually resonate with your audience.
They're understandable.
They're memorable.
And then if each one of the speakers has a whole lot of data, put that together in a document, word
document, it could be a PowerPoint document, email it in advance, handed out email and afterwards.
But I'm telling you right now, if you want your team presentation to follow a script and the script
is the PowerPoint and you're basically kind of half talking to it, kind of referring to it, kind of
always looking at notes back up here.
Your group presentation is going to be awful to be boring.
People don't like to read bullet points on a screen 20, 30 feet away when people are talking to them.
So I'm sorry.
I do realize that most corporations that is the status quo of lots of bullet points for the group presentation.
And we have this following pattern of everyone sticks to the script.
I tell you, nobody in your audience cares about your script.
All they care about is do you have something interesting, useful and relevant to say to them?
And are you saying it in a way that's memorable?
Are you showing them something that's memorable?
That's the only thing your audience cares about.
You want to be a great group presenter or solo presenter.
You've got to focus on what your audience wants, not what you want, not what your corporate mandate
tradition is.
You've got to focus on your audience.
So if you're going to have a PowerPoint again, I would recommend you have two separate power points.
One, that's lots and lots and lots of notes, words, text, bullet points, email to people handed
out another one that has images and you can all work from the same deck.
But if you're going to use the images, all of you need to be on the same page.
It looks OK for one person, have great, interesting visuals that are fascinating.
And then the next person comes up and it's a white screen and a whole bunch of black text with bullet
points.
That's a bit jarring.
It's not that you all have to have the same styles, but if someone has a really good, interesting,
memorable visual style and someone else is presenting in a way that reminds everyone of the audience,
is the worst possible data.
Dumping, droning speaker.
That's a real downer.
Now you can say, well, TJ, we're a team and different people have different styles and wants and
needs.
And Smithers over here, he's more comfortable with all of his notes on the PowerPoint.
I got it.
I don't care about Smithers.
Sorry if that sounds cold or cruel.
You know, I care about the audience who has to listen to Smithers, that prospective client.
They got to hear pitches from five other firms and Smithers is going to bore them if he sort of stands
up and reads bullet points.
So my recommendation have a PowerPoint document that you email that people hand out, but the PowerPoint
that you're projecting use images and have everyone on the team use it, because if even one person
insist on boring text, it's going to really leave a sad, sour taste in the mouth of your audience.

--- Magical Phrase for Every Speech Public Speaking ---

So what is the most magical phrase a speechmaker can ever give?
I'll give you an example in a moment.
The magical phrase is example, let me give you an example, for example, research shows that if you
put a video camera on an audience and the speaker says, let me give you an example, or for example,
there's palpable head and I have movement upward.
People are looking up trying to really figure out what it is you're talking about.
They're trying to see it for themselves.
They're trying to visualize it.
I have never in the 30 years of this business heard people coming out of a convention hall saying,
I hated the way that speaker gave us so many interesting, relevant examples.
The beauty of examples is it takes a concept from the abstract to the particular.
It allows your audience to visualize it, to understand it, to taste it, touch it, feel it.
So any point that you want people to understand and remember, you need to illustrate that point with
an example.
Don't tell me there's no time.
If there's no time for an example, then there's no time to talk about the concept in the first place.

--- First Rehearsal ---

So each team member should have a presentation.
Now it's time to put it all together so all of you need to get in the same conference room or wherever
you will be presenting and you need to decide the order, really nail that down if you're using the
same slide deck and you do need to use the same slide deck, if you're using slides, you don't have
time to be changing programs and pulling up different programs.
You need to have the slide deck all together so everyone knows where they are and then let's just do
it.
And when I say do it, I mean practice not in front of any clients or prospects or other colleagues
other than your group.
Let's do a run through.
Here's the key.
You're not going to want to do this, but you have to record it on video.
It can be a cell phone.
It doesn't have to be a big fancy camera, but it could be an iPad.
It could be a webcam.
You need to practice the whole thing on video and then watch it.
You're not trying to get perfect the first time.
It's a rough draft.
You don't write memos perfectly.
The first time you edit it, review it, spell check it, make it better.
Same with the presentation.
Great team presentations are great because they've been refined, they've been practiced, they've been
rehearsed.
And the most specific thing you could do is rehearse on video and watch it.
So let's go ahead, do a full rehearsal.
You absolutely have to do it on video.
It's not enough to just give each other feedback.
It's not enough to have a mirror in the room and watch yourself waste of time.
You've got to videotape it in order to really see what's working, what isn't work, working, and to
be able to have some perspective on it.
Now, your first time, it may be a little awkward.
One person finishes and has the next one come up and there's time to work all that out.
But when you do finish, summarize your main points, make a conclusion with a little bit of finality
and then briefly introduce your colleague.
The next speaker needs to be a smooth, simple, nothing embarrassing about it.
Handoff.
For some reason, I've seen people who've worked together for years in a corporation do a group presentation
and the handoff is always sort of awkward and well, now Larry and Larry is really good.
There's this awkwardness.
You want to know exactly what to say.
A part of your presentation is introducing the next man, the next woman to speak in a way that has
a purpose, has a focus, and is planned as much as anything else.
You say.
When I say planned, I don't mean memorized, because as you remember, I'm recommending that you speak
from a simple sheet of notes, not from PowerPoint and not from a whole script, but just simple notes.
So let's go ahead.
Let's do a whole dry run.
This is also a time to get a sense of her timing.
You all may be great speakers, but if each one of you is speaking for a half an hour and adds up to
two and a half hours and there's only an hour allotted for your new business pitch, you got a problem.
It's not going to get shorter on its own.
So you can get a sense of how long it is, how things are coming.
And this will be your first time to see all the presentations together, not on the PowerPoint deck,
which is frankly irrelevant, but actually seeing it more like an audience member.
So give the presentations.
If you're going to use PowerPoint, use PowerPoint now recorded on video and then watch it after you
watch it in silence.
I need each one of you to write down what you like and don't like about your own presentation, but
with everyone else's presentation, too.
And then share your notes.
Do that right now.

--- How to Eliminate Nervousness for public speaking Public Speaking ---

Now it's time to do another rehearsal, you need to incorporate all the criticisms, I'd like you to
focus on just one or two things to do better.
The main thing is after you watching this video, I want each one of you to see market improvement in
at least one area.
If you try to solve 10 problems, you're just going to frustrate yourself.
Focus on one thing.
Maybe it's your fidgeting with your ring on your finger, look nervous or your eyes were regarding around.
Whatever it is you be the judge.
Try to solve that one problem.
We'll get to the other problems again.
So let's do the whole thing, videotape it again, critique it again, then share your notes with each
other.

--- Second Rehearsal ---

So how do you avoid making a bad impression when you're giving a speech or presentation?
With all due respect, that's an extremely low standard, those are very low expectations.
That's like telling your investment advisor, hey, I only want you to lose 50000 dollars on my portfolio
this year.
No one would start off the year saying I only hope to not lose too much.
That's defensive.
You should go into every single speech, every single presentation you give with an offensive attitude,
with the idea of, hey, I can only win here.
This is a chance for me to really communicate some great ideas.
I have to this audience, help them and make them think better about me.
You have to go into this.
I hate to sound like one of these positive thinking gurus or, you know, attraction stuff.
That's not what I'm talking about.
I think it's realistic to think, OK, you've got time to speak in front of these people and if you
do a good job, you're actually going to help them and help you.
So you've got to focus on the ideas you have.
They're going to be interesting, relevant and memorable to your audience.
If you do that, it's virtually impossible to leave a bad impression, especially if you've rehearsed
on video, as I've asked you to do.

--- How to Avoid Making a Bad Impression during Presentations Public Speaking ---

Ideally, we're seeing some progress, it's time to do another rehearsal, and you guessed it on video,
I'm telling you right now, if you tell yourself, well, we'll videotape the next one, let's just
do a dry run.
You're wasting valuable time.
You'll get so much more value out of this by videotaping it and recording it.
Trust me, this is all I do for the last 30 years.
You're not going to get the same benefit talking it out loud as you would by telling it out loud and
video recording it and watching it.
So it's time to do it again.
There's good news and bad news here.
You should be seeing some improvement by now so you can tape it, speak it out loud, tape it, watch
it again.
And if you really like it, if you think the whole thing gels, it flows nicely.
Each speaker stand on its own.
Guess what?
You're ready to give the presentation.
However, if you're not completely satisfied with the entire presentation, I need you to do it again.
It's not about passing my test or some corporate communication policy test.
It's about, at this point, passing your test.
I need all of you in the group to be able to watch the video of this group presentation and say, wow,
if we can be half as good as that group, we're going to totally dominate this new business.
We're going to just be fantastic, be great.
If we could even speak half as good, I would want to listen to those people.
If that weren't me, that's got to be your response.
If you get to that point, you going to be overwhelmed with confidence and you're going to do a great
job because let's face it, you've heard thousands of speeches in your own life and you've heard a lot
of group presentations.
You know, the bad stuff, you know the boring stuff.
So if you can actually watch your own video of the whole group presentation and you like it, that's
a pretty tall standard.
That's a pretty high threshold.
That's where you have to be.
Now, you may be there already.
Great.
Go relax.
But if you're not, keep practicing.
I don't care how many times it may take you one more take.
It may take you 30 takes.
You are not ready to give this group presentation until you can look at the video every minute of it
and be happy with it.
Because when you think about it, that's what you do when you're sending a text proposal or an email.
You don't send an email to an important client and say, you know what, I know the punctuation is all
messed up in that last paragraph, but, you know, I'm tired of work and let me just hit send.
You wouldn't do that.
Well, why in the world would you give a presentation if you haven't actually seen yourself delivered
in a way that you think is great?
So that's my challenge to you.
Keep on practicing on video until you like what you see.
Now, let's get back to the real world for a minute.
What are most organizations do when they're giving team presentations?
They spend all of their time futzing with the PowerPoint slide.
Oh, let's change this bullet point.
Let's add this data point.
Let's rearrange this.
Let's move the logo from here to here.
All of it a complete, utter waste of time that has zero impact on what the audience actually remembers.
Again, if you're going to use PowerPoint, fine.
I use PowerPoint all the time.
If you're going to have one with lots and lots of text, I wouldn't recommend projecting it at hand
it out or email it.
But if you're going to do it, you've got to put the PowerPoint to bed at least a few days before the
presentation so you can spend your time speaking the presentation out loud, practicing on video until
you like it or you can do it.
Most corporations do in most organizations is step two in the morning, rearranging the deck, changing
the slides at eight forty five in the morning for the nine a.m. speech.
If you do that, you are condemned to a disastrous group presentation.
So focus on the rehearsal with video.

--- Third Rehearsal ---

Should you rehearse your speech or presentation, and if so, for how long?
The answers are, of course, yes.
And as long as it takes for you to be great, there's this old tale out there that's up far better to
just be spontaneous.
You'll be, Fred, complete, utter nonsense.
That's an excuse from people who are lazy or are nervous and they want to avoid and procrastinate.
Yes, you need to rehearse every speech, every presentation you give, but you need to rehearse in
a particular way.
You need to rehearse on video.
And that could be as simple as talking to your own cell phone and recording it.
I do not.
And let me repeat, I do not recommend that you rehearse by talking to the mirror, because if you're
talking to me or you're going to be thinking, hmm, is my nose somehow gotten a little crooked?
Am I losing even more hair?
What's with these jowls?
You can't be in the moment presenting if you're looking at your face, because everyone I mean, everyone
has something they don't like about their face.
So I would not recommend that if you want to rehearse in front of your dog, I don't have a problem
with that.
But make sure there is a video recorder present and recording you so you can watch it.
Here's the real key to rehearsal.
It doesn't do any good to rehearse it once.
Well, it doesn't.
Tiny little bit of good, but the real key to rehearsal is to keep doing it until you like the results.
Maybe you can do that in one take.
Maybe it takes 10 takes, maybe it takes two days.
Guess what?
Your audience doesn't care.
They simply want your best.
So it's your job to rehearse yourself, to get you to the point where you're at your very best.

--- Should I Rehearse My Speech and for how long Public Speaking ---

Congratulations, you are ready to give this group presentation.
It's going to be a great presentation.
You got to take my word for it.
You now have proof, you have evidence, you've watched the video of yourself.
You've done the exercises.
You're not going to make the mistakes most people make.
You're not going to do a boring data dump.
You're not going to have an awful PowerPoint with lots and lots of text that people read.
Each one of your presenters is going to be interesting, compelling, have examples, case studies,
stories.
The visuals, if you're using slides, will actually be visual with pictures, images, things that
people can see that aren't abstractions and little letters.
And it's all going to flow nicely.
You're going to be comfortable with each other because you've practiced, you know exactly how you sound.
The substance will be there, the style will be there.
You put it together and it's going to be a great winning team presentation.
Good luck.

--- Conclusion to Team Presentations ---

So how do you make a speech in a business setting?
A business setting, frankly, is not that much different from any other setting when you're giving
a presentation, because remember, ultimately you're speaking to human beings.
They're just sitting there listening, trying to make a judgment.
This person, interesting, I'll pay attention, are boring and I will check my email.
That's ultimately what every audience is thinking.
It doesn't matter if it's a formal situation, informal situation, technical presentation, PowerPoint
presentation.
So a lot of time speakers get themselves into trouble telling themselves, oh, I'm now in a business
settings right.
To be businesslike.
And what they mean, or at least they think they mean to themselves as they have to throw away all the
interesting things they normally say, get rid of stories, examples, exchanges, humor, and then
just stick to dry, boring data dumps.
Well, no, my friends, the most effective business communicators always use examples.
They always tell stories.
They try to inject humor.
And whether they're talking to two people, 200 or 2000, they have a conversational tone of voice.
Because if they're speaking to more than 20 people, they probably have a microphone on, so don't talk
in an officious sort of way, don't freeze yourself, don't stand behind the lectern, lock down.
You want to move, be comfortable, confident and relaxed.
And ultimately, you can focus on creating an interesting, memorable presentation.
If you do that, it's going to be a great business presentation, a great political presentation, a
great board of directors.
It's going to be great for any type of presentation.

--- How to Make a Speech in a Business Setting Public Speaking ---

So you've got an opportunity to present on a panel that's great, number one.
Number two, it's fantastic that you're taking it seriously enough that you're watching this video and
taking this course.
Here's the real danger of panel presentations is people kid themselves and they say, well, I'm not
giving a speech.
Of course, I'd practice and spend a lot of time on that.
This is just a panel presenting.
It's just a panel talk.
It's no big deal wrong.
That is absolutely the worst possible mentality you could have about presenting on a panel.
In some ways, a panel presentation is exactly the same as a keynote speech for an hour with you on
stage in front of twenty thousand people.
Now, I know that sounds strange, but hear me out every time you're speaking, people have to make
judgments about you.
And I would submit there's four possible outcomes from your panel presentation.
The first one, the worst possible scenario is it's so awful.
You're sweating, you collapse, you run off the stage, you say something so ridiculous, you embarrass
yourself.
Now, that rarely happens every once in a while, but that's extremely rare.
I hope it never happens to you.
It's highly unlikely it will happen to you.
But that is one potential outcome could happen on any panel presentation could happen in a speech.
The next outcome is your perfectly professional calm.
You present your staff, whether you're sitting or standing.
Everything's professional afterwards.
The organizers.
Thank you very much.
Good presentation.
And nobody remembers anything.
You said it was professional.
It was straightforward.
It was boring.
It was bland.
It was unmemorable.
It was devoid of great stories or anything else instantly forgotten.
It is my belief that that is what happens more than ninety nine percent of the time for most executives
in every industry when they are on a panel discussion.
I would say that's almost as awful as the first scenario, we wasted time, we wasted a huge opportunity
to really communicate with people, and we blew it by so-called playing it safe, just sticking to the
information.
Maybe you read something, maybe read off some notes, maybe you just were winging it, but you didn't
make any impression, didn't make a bad impression, but you didn't make any impression.
The third option is you come across as engaging, confident, authoritative, likable.
Maybe you stood up and walked while it was your turn to present.
Maybe you said something witty.
So people actually leave the conference where you are speaking on the panel with a favorable impression
about you.
Hey, that's pretty good.
It's nice to have people like you, think you're great, think you're commanding.
But there is a fourth option every single time you're on a panel.
That fourth option is people actually understand the messages you're talking about and remember the
messages you're talking about so they can take actions or filter that into what they're doing in your
industry.
And only after the fact they conclude that you're a good speaker and comfortable and confident all those
wonderful things.
And the third option.
So everything we're doing in this class is about helping you get that fourth option.
It is my belief that you should have that goal for every panel presentation.
You're not I don't care if you're only given two minutes to talk or 20 minutes as a part of the set
schedule of the panel.
I don't care if it's just answering questions.
You still have the ability to communicate ideas in an interesting and memorable way and have people
come away with this with a positive impression of you.
That's our goal.
I hope that's your goal for every panel presentation you're part of.

--- Never Blunder the Way Most Panelists Do ---

So how can you find out if your speech or presentation was effective?
This is actually quite easy and I'll tell you why, by the way, it always bugs me when people talk
about public speaking skills as a soft skill, like soft like a puppy, it's somehow, you know, like
judging fingerpainting.
No, it's not.
Public speaking is just as easy to quantify as any aspect of accounting or physics.
Let me tell you how all you have to do, if you want to know if your speech is effective is ask your
audience afterwards.
But you have to ask them the right question, ask them what messages they remember from your presentation.
If they remember all of your key messages, you were affected.
If they don't remember, you were ineffective.
Same way you test.
If your slides are effective when you're done, ask your audience what PowerPoint slides.
They remember any slide they remember as long as they connected to the point it was effective.
If they cannot remember your slide, it was ineffective.
Throw it in the trash can or give it as a handout.
But don't use it in your actual presentation.
So if you've got a big presentation to 30 important clients on Thursday, get three colleagues, perhaps
people who work in different departments together at lunch on Tuesday.
Give them your presentation in the lunchroom when you're done, don't ask them.
What do they think is they're going to want to be nice.
They're going to say, Oh, good job, Jim.
Great job, Sally.
Go get that's not helpful advice.
Ask them what messages do they remember?
And because they can't lie about that, they can lie about whether they think you did a good job or
not or whether you looked professional.
But ask them what messages they remember.
If they don't remember your messages, then you know you're not effective.
You've got to go back to the drawing board.
Very easy to find out.
Now, also, when you're giving a speech for real and people come up to you afterwards, if you're talking
to more than twenty people, typically someone will come up and say, oh, good job that I get presentation.
What most of us do is we say, Oh, thanks, thanks a lot.
Now you can still do that.
But what I would recommend is then say, hey, thanks, tell me what stands out.
What do you remember?
So when I do that and someone says, well, you know, T.J., you were just so professional and you
were commanding and authoritative and you didn't have any arms and you're a real inspiration.
If somebody says that to me after a presentation, I then know I was a complete, utter failure because
those were my messages.
If they can't tell me specific messages, examples, stories, case studies, I failed miserably.
So don't be afraid to ask people who come up to you after a presentation with any kind of feedback.
What do you remember that's honest feedback that you can take to the bank?

--- How can I find out whether my presentation worked? ---

Before we really set our goals for the panel presentation beyond the idea of coming across well and
communicating some ideas and being remembered, you've got to know the ground rules of the panel.
So you should always ask the person who is invited you to be on the panel, or if it's your own organization,
your own event, you need to know exactly what the ground rules are.
A panel discussion could mean you've got to panelist and each person stands, talks for 30 minutes,
then has sort of cross talk with the other panelists.
Then you take questions from an audience.
That's one way of doing it.
A panel could be you and ten people.
Nobody has a set speech and all you do is answer questions.
Now, the more common way would be something in between where each panelist gives overall opening remarks
for five minutes or so and then you take questions, but you've got to find that out.
So I need you to either try to find out the next time you'll be on a panel exactly what the ground rules
are or decide right now what the ground rules should be for your practice session that we're about to
do so.
Right.
The ground rules down.
How long do you have to speak in a sort of set way?
The beginning.
And then how long will the whole thing be?
How many other panelists will be there?
Will you be standing or sitting now?
It shouldn't make a difference, but I want you to know in advance so you can practice standing or sitting
based on what it will be like for the real panel.
So write down the ground rules now.

--- Master the Ground Rules So You Will Shine ---

So what's the best way to start off your presentation?
The best way to start off your presentation is by saying something interesting to your audience, not
about yourself.
You don't have to start with a joke.
It doesn't have to be something amazingly emotional and compelling.
But what you do need to start off with is something of interest to your audience.
Now, what are most speakers do they start off with?
Good morning.
As you know, my name is this.
My title is this.
And you may not be aware, but we're in the following cities that you don't care about because you're
in this city.
And I'm very happy to be here today.
That's how most speakers start.
And guess what?
It's deadly dull.
You already either know who they are and their name, rank and title, or you don't care at that stage
of the relationship.
Do you care if the person is happy to be there?
The whole thing comes across as phony baloney, trite cliche.
So most people.
Start checking email, they figure, oh, the speaker has it really started, I'm not really missing
anything.
And you know what?
They're right.
Here's the problem, though.
Once you actually start your speech a minute or two when you've already lost the audience.
So what I recommend is dispense with all the phony baloney.
Thank you very much.
What an honor to be here and blah, blah, blah.
Start off where you normally would have started two or three minutes into your presentation.
Start by giving some piece of content, some idea, some message of interest to your audience.
And if you start with a story even better now, if you want to thank the person who invited you or introduced
you during the middle of the speech, do it near the end.
People aren't expecting it then don't do it in the beginning.
This one thing will really make you stand out as different from other speakers, because most speakers,
even if they're polished, even if they're suit and tie, their dress is perfect, even if they have
good eye contact the way they start their speeches.
Me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me.
I did this and here's why I'm legitimate and here's why I'm great.
Nobody cares about that yet.
You can stand out by saying something interesting, useful, relevant to your audience.
Do that and you will hook them.
They will stay with you for the rest of your presentation.

--- How to start a speech - Public Speaking ---

So what are your communication goals for this panel appearance, and it shouldn't be so low, is to
just be.
Well, I want people to think I'm smart and I know about the industry that is a low bar.
The easiest way, by the way, to get people to think you're smart is to actually say interesting stuff
that's memorable about your industry.
That's the easiest way to get people to remember and perceive you as smart if you go in with something
is vague and is fuzzy.
Oh, I just want to be seen as an industry expert and have a few insightful comments.
Too low a bar.
So I want you to decide in advance what are the most important ideas that you want to weigh in on and
you want people to understand, remember and associate with you.
Now, in a typical speech, if you are the only person speaking and attention is on you, I would argue
no more than five ideas.
If you're a part of a panel and there's debate and there's lots of going back and forth, five is too
many.
I would focus on no more than three ideas.
And you can put these ideas forth in your prepared talks.
You can also bridge back to them during the question and answer part.
You can also be looking for opportunities to add these points in when other speakers are allowing commentary
and debate on their presentation.
So I want you to go in with some agenda.
I'm not suggesting everything has to be canned.
And you're like some awful politician who says, well, I'm glad you asked me that.
But what's really important here today is, Bumbo, I'm not suggesting you just ignore questions, ignore
what other panelists say, and just focus on your three messages.
But I am asking you to give some real thought to the ideas you care about the most.
So when you do have that opening five minutes to give your overall position on the issues of the day,
you can go right to that.
Rather than trying to summarize every single thing that's happened in your industry or what everyone
else said, focus on the ideas you care about most.
So that's what I want you to do now.
Write down three sentences, ten words or less.
What are the three ideas that you really want to convey in this panel presentation you're giving?

--- Communicate Effectively By Focusing on Your Top Three Messages ---

So how do you manage time when giving a speech or presentation, for starters, you should have a pretty
good sense of how long it takes you to give the presentation, because you should have rehearsed on
video.
And these days, that can be as simple as talking to your own cell phone, recording it, looking at
the time.
So this idea that it's impossible to have any idea of how long your speech takes just isn't true.
Now, the worst thing you can do is time your speech by reading it silently to yourself, because the
speech that takes a half hour to give to people in the real world, you can read silently to yourself
at eight minutes.
So that's not going to have any relationship to the actual length of your presentation.
Now, when you're speaking, you need to factor in more time when there's an audience there, because
they may have questions, there may be reactions.
You may see someone looking at you.
They don't quite get it.
You have to go in and explain deeper.
You also want to allocate time in most situations for questions and answers.
So if you're told you've got an hour, I wouldn't prepare 60 Minutes worth of content.
I would prepare over 40 minutes of content and leave time for questions and leave some time for spontaneity
and the ability to go into more detail based on what the audience says.
Now, there are several ways of managing your time when you're in the middle of a presentation.
For starters, most cell phones have a timer function.
You can get a timer app so you can have that in fairly large font sitting on a table, a lectern near
you.
You could do what I do.
I simply remove my watch and I put it on a table so I can glance down if there are not clocks around.
Here's the thing.
If you speak often enough and I recommend that you try to speak every opportunity you can, you won't
be as nervous when you're not nervous.
You won't lose track of time.
If you're completely nervous and feeling tense, that's when you lose all perspective of time.
You can think you're talking for ten minutes and it's really been 50.
Or you can think you've been talking for 50 minutes and you look down and you've been speaking for seven
minutes and you've got to somehow fill up the next 53 minutes.
And that's when panic occurs.
You don't want that to happen.
So practice, rehearse on video and also have eyesight to clocks, watches or timers.
Do that and you'll be in good.
You also remember them if you speak and you finish a little bit early, but you really deliver the goods.
You've given people great content and answered their questions.
Nobody's going to get upset if you only took 25 minutes and they told you you had 30 minutes.

--- How to Manage Time When Giving a Presentation ---

Typically, when you are part of a panel discussion, you're not using PowerPoint slides.
There's not the time for everyone to get up and shovel computers around in the sticks.
And so you have to simply talk to people in a way that's interesting and understandable.
So get rid of that crutch.
If that happens to be a crutch for you've got to be able to make the point and to make it come alive.
Now, the number one way of doing that is by telling stories don't think of it is something theatrical
or difficult.
I never tell stories.
Every human being tells stories.
Somebody does something obnoxious to you.
You probably retell that to a family member later that day or you complain to someone.
We all tell stories and you've got to be effective at doing that.
When you're on a panel discussion, don't give yourself the outcome.
Well, it's just a panel discussion.
There's no time.
It would take 10 minutes to tell a story.
You can tell a story in 20 seconds if you want to.
But your focus is always got to be not just making an intellectual point, but how to illustrate it,
to make it memorable.
You're not going to be able to put up PowerPoint slides.
Most likely, unlikely you can give handouts in the middle of a panel discussion.
You probably aren't going to be able to walk around and engage the audience and ask them questions.
You simply have to say it in an interesting, memorable way.
So start thinking about how you can illustrate your key points with stories and I'll give you more instructions
on that in the next lecture.

--- Become the Master of the Short Story ---

So how do you make a presentation memorable?
There are two main ways.
The first is you've got to have compelling, interesting stories, not made up stories, not stories
from a book, but stories about your actual conversations with real people, colleagues, clients,
customers, family members, stories that relate to the message that's important to your audience.
The next thing is you have to bring some passion to this subject.
Those are the two things that people remember over and over again as I ask clients from six continents,
from all over the world, what speeches do you remember?
What do you remember about them?
That's what I hear again and again, interesting stories.
The passion someone had for their subject matter.
That's what will make your speech memorable.
What's going to not make your speech memorable is having all the bullet points just so having the logo
perfectly centered on your PowerPoint.
That's not going to do it.
You've got to have these compelling stories and deliver it in a way where you're reliving the emotion.
So, for example, I don't tell somebody, oh, I've been on thousands of talk shows and some have been
difficult.
That's abstract.
I don't just say that.
I then tell a story about the time I was down in Florida on talk radio show, political show, and the
host pulls a gun on me on the air.
And I was scared out of my mind.
Now, to find out more details, you'll have to listen to more of these videos.
But that's a story people remember once I flesh out more details.

--- How to Make Your Presentation Memorable Public Speaking ---

Let's talk about some of the logistics when you're on a panel now, you've seen in many cases where
there's a table, a microphone on the table every couple of feet, sometimes if there's six panelists,
they may share three microphones.
Here's what a lot of people do.
There's a table in front of them.
So they put their hands on it and they lean down.
And what's happening there is it just makes you look sloppy, slumped over, kind of bored, makes everything
wrinkled, too, and it robs you of your energy.
So if you're sitting at a table and there are microphones there, what I recommend is you do not touch
the table with your hands and arms when you're speaking.
I recommend hold yourself up high, lean forward and be gesturing, moving your hands when you speak.
That's what I recommend doing.
Don't slump over.
Now, another scenario is director's chairs.
I've seen this at many, many conferences.
Everyone's on a director's chair.
And depending on how long you have, if it's an opening five minute statement, what I would do is just
get up and then walk in sort of a square of two to three feet.
You can get better eye contact.
You get more people focusing on you, eye contact back at you.
There is more variety and you appear much more confident.
Now, I wouldn't do that every single time when there's a question and answer session and people are
giving 20 and 30 second answers, I would stay seated for that.
But if there's one point at the beginning when it's understood you have a good five minutes, I would
actually stand because it just conveys confidence.
It shows you're serious about it and it works very well.
So I do want you to be comfortable with how you're standing, how you're setting.
Another scenario is there's a lectern.
Panelists are sitting down and once their turn to talk, they get up behind the lectern.
I need you to use your judgment here on the room size and the audio.
If you're speaking to five hundred people and there's a microphone at the lectern, you're going to
have to get close to that microphone.
But I've also been in many conferences where there's only twenty five thirty people in the room, so
there's no need to get behind the lectern to use that microphone.
The microphone might not even be on if there's only twenty five people in the room.
When it's your turn to speak, just walk up, get as close as possible to the first row, speak to people
and you'll come across as more genuine, more authoritative, more confident.
Now a word about notes.
It just looks odd when you're sitting down and you have five minutes to sort of bury your head and be
reading.
You've robbed the audience of eye contact.
You don't seem very passionate about it and you don't seem like much of an expert.
The other thing that looks odd is having notes on a napkin.
I've seen that countless times because people say, well, it's just a panel.
I'll just jot down something of the cocktail party beforehand that doesn't send the level of seriousness.
I would recommend either no notes or my first choice have notes on a single sheet of paper, large font,
so you don't have to stop every two seconds and doing this stuff extra large font, a single sheet of
paper.
That way you can glance down occasionally using it as a road map.
There's a certain particular number that's really important or big concept you want to stress.
It's right there on your single sheet of paper, but it's not a big stack of papers where people are
expecting five minutes and they see this and their first reaction.
Oh my gosh, this person is going to go way over the time limit.
No, you need your notes on a single sheet of paper, which, by the way, that's what great speakers
do.
Even if they're talking for an hour, they keep the notes on a single sheet.
So I want you to go ahead and prepare your notes for this panel discussion.
For the purposes of this exercise, let's assume you have five minutes to give opening comments on the
discussion that everyone's gathered here to discuss.
So have just comments for five minutes, single sheet of notes with large font, and also get ready
to give your presentation as a part of the panel based on how you've set the dynamics.
Will you be sitting or standing?

--- Other Tips to Make You Great - Sitting Standing Notes ---

What are some of the top rules you should never break when giving a speech or presentation?
One rule, never read a speech.
The hardest thing you could ever do is read a speech without completely boring people to death.
Unless you are a trained actor and a really good trained actor, if you're trying to read a speech,
it destroys your eye contact.
It makes your voice flat, boring, monotone and too consistent in speed and pitch and volume.
So whatever you don't try to read the speech.
The next thing, don't try to read PowerPoint slides.
Turning your back to the audience.
They see the back of your head and you reading a bunch of Slote.
Horrible thing to do.
People hate it and they're simply going to ignore you.
Next thing, don't ever apologize for your speech.
Oh, I'm sorry.
I wish I had more time to prepare.
I'm sorry I didn't have the rights.
Don't apologize about your speech.
Simply give the best speech you can next.
Don't go on too long.
Now, it's not true that you have to speak three minutes or that shorter is always better.
But if you're budgeted a half an hour and you're still talking at 50 minutes, that's a big problem
for everybody, even if you have interesting content.
So don't violate the amount of time you have allocated for your presentation.
The final thing is don't just do a data dump.
Don't try to cram as many facts and figures and numbers into your speech because you are guaranteed
not to communicate.
People are going to tune you out.
They will not remember anything.
So there are a lot of dos and don'ts you can avoid and still be successful.
But you've you've got to avoid the biggest blunders common in many, many speaking disasters.

--- Public Speaking Rules You Should Never Break Public Speaking ---

Now, the etiquette is a little bit odd when you're on a panel, because it's not like when you're in
a large room and it's your turn to speak and you're introduced and you get up and people are looking
at you then, but not other times, if you're on a panel discussion of the person next to you or two
down is speaking, you're still in the spotlight.
A lot of people forget that.
So someone else is speaking and the one panelist is sort of looking at notes, doodling, looking down.
It looks rude.
It sends a message, hey, if I'm not speaking, I don't really care what anyone else has to say.
I'm so important and I couldn't possibly learn from this other person.
It's sending a negative message.
You're in the spotlight even though you're not speaking.
So my recommendation is it's OK to have notes should be a single sheet, but don't be looking at them
when someone else is speaking.
My recommendation looked at the person speaking A, it's polite.
You won't be distracting people, be people who do look at you.
Looking at the speaker will form the impression that you're paying attention, you care, you're trying
to learn to you're open to new ideas.
These are all good things.
So do keep in mind, even when you're not speaking, the spotlight is on you.
So pay attention to the other speakers, look polite, at least pretend to listen.
And who knows, you might learn something.
The other reason you want to do that is a good panel, has interaction, has debate.
So you need to really be in the moment listening so you can react.
Now, depending on the style of the panel, moderator may want you to engage, engage in actual debate
and interrupting people occasionally.
And I wouldn't overdo it.
You don't want to be seen as rude, but you've got to really listen to what other people say so that
you can incorporate that into your argument, into your rebuttal.
Great panels are not just five independent people coming and giving their presentations and ignoring
people.
There is some engagement.
There's some disagreement.
Sometimes there's some synergy building on the ideas.
So you've got to be in the moment.
You've got to listen.
You don't want to seem like you're just phoning it in and ignoring everything else.
So be in the moment.
Listen, if you want to take notes to report something that's OK, just don't be writing your grocery
list and other people can see or be doodling.
That's going to be obvious to spot.
So listen carefully so that you can reference what other arguments were when you have another time to
speak, depending on the format.
That is essential, because if it's just you and your ideas every time and it seems like you're ignoring
it, that's not good.
But you don't want to go overboard.
You don't want to spend two and a half minutes out of your five minutes, say, well, I agree with
what Sam said and I agree with what I said.
I don't waste valuable time agreeing with people.
If you want to focus on one thing somebody said that you think is counter to conventional wisdom and
a really important point that you also that's OK, but don't waste time just agreeing with people.
So listen carefully.
Add to what is said.

--- Look at Panelists ---

How long should my speech be and how can I be more concise?
Let me stop you right there.
Your goal shouldn't ever be to be concise.
Your goal should be communicating ideas that are important to you, interesting and relevant to your
audience, and doing so in a way that's actually memorable.
That should be the goal.
So take as much time as you need for that.
Now, there was a study done in 1974 by the U.S. Defense Department that set the perfect length of a
speech was seventeen point five minutes.
Personally, I find that complete, utter baloney because we've all seen people who speak for two minutes
and everyone's asleep, on the other hand.
I've seen speakers talk from 10:00 in the morning till midnight.
The audience wanted more.
Why?
Because they were consistently interesting.
So I would be careful about trying to pigeonhole your speech into a specific time limit.
Now, there may be times when you're told you have exactly 20 minutes.
You're a financial conference, you're told you have exactly 25 minutes and five minutes for Q&amp;A and
you've got to stick to it.
But there are plenty of times in real life where you're talking to your own employees, colleagues and
new business pitch.
People may have traveled to come see you set up a meeting and it took them an hour to get there, an
hour to get back.
They're going to listen to you.
They're not sitting there with a stopwatch for three minutes.
And the most important thing is that you actually communicate your ideas in an interesting way.
So remember, the choice isn't between being really, really boring for a long period of time versus
really boring for two minutes, if that's the only choice.
Yeah, better to be boring for two minutes, but there is another option, and that is to be incredibly
interesting, memorable for the amount of time you need to convey your ideas.
So rather than worry about be concise or speaking just for five minutes of focus your on your ideas,
make sure they're interesting and memorable, the time will often take care of itself.

--- How Long Should My Speech Be Public Speaking ---

By now, you may have deduced I'm a fan of videotaping panel discussions, your rehearsal presentations
of all sorts, I'm going to ask you to do it one other place, and that is the actual presentation you
give as a part of this panel in front of the audience.
Now, you don't have to hire a big TV production crew or make a big deal out of it.
But you can simply hand your cell phone to a friend, a colleague, make a new friend on the front row
and say, hey, do you mind just videotaping a few parts?
My opening comments and as much as it'll take before it shuts down.
Do that and then you can watch how you did in real life, because sometimes how you did in rehearsal
is very different from how you did in real life.
Maybe the nerves got to you and you started speaking quickly again.
You need to know that.
On the other hand, sometimes you're much better in real life because you can feed off the energy of
the room.
You can really look at people.
Maybe someone asked you a question and you gave a profoundly interesting, memorable anecdote.
If you have that on video, it's really helpful.
It will reinforce the things you did.
Well, the real key to being a great panel presenter is to learn from every panel presentation you ever
give.
The best way to learn is to watch the video, figure out what worked well so you can do it again.
Great speakers are great, not because they were born that way or it's a natural talent.
Quite often they're great because they speak a lot and they learn a teeny little bit from every presentation
they give.
Martin Luther King Jr. in his year that he gave the I Have a Dream speech spoke three hundred times
that year.
Ronald Reagan gave nearly the same speech hundreds of times a year from nineteen sixty four till he
was elected president in nineteen eighty.
Bill Clinton, seen by many as a great public speaker, gets attention for major speeches like the Democratic
conventions.
But they don't realize he's still giving three hundred speeches a year.
So part of it is speak on as many panels as you can.
And the other part is get video of yourself every time so you can learn from it.
Great comedian still record their sets on stage so they can learn.
You can learn to record every panel presentation you're on.

--- Record Actual Presentation ---

You've heard the old axiom, tell them what you're going to tell them, tell them and tell them what
you told them.
But is it true, is it effective?
You've heard this so-called speaking lore, I've heard it for years, however, I don't have any evidence
to suggest it's really effective.
If you doubt me, ask yourself the following question.
How many exit doors are there on a 747 or a 757?
Now, if you travel a great deal, chances are you've been told this hundreds of times because the airline
attendant will always tell you, please, you know, here's how.
If I was in a seatbelt, blah, blah, blah, blah, in case of emergency landing, there are X number
of exit doors.
Here's the problem.
Any time I ask a group of people that 10 people, I get 10 different answers everyone doesn't really
remember.
They have to guess they guessed differently.
Here's my point.
You've been told that message of how many exit doors there are numerous, numerous times.
But because of the manner in which it's told boring, straightforward, perfunctory, no passion, conveyor
belt of data, it goes in one ear and out the other.
And that's my challenge to you.
If you're giving a presentation, if you are boring and straightforward and you don't have stories and
you don't have examples, you can tell people what you're going to tell them.
You can tell them.
You can tell them what you told them.
It won't make any difference.
They're still not going to remember what you said.
You're far better off telling somebody one idea one time.
But to do it in a way that's truly memorable, that has an interesting example, a case study, a compelling
story.
Tell them one time in a compelling way, they may remember it for a lifetime.
Tell them three times at a speech and it's boring and they won't remember it three seconds later.

--- Tell ’em what I’m gonna tell ’em, tell ’em, Public Speaking ---

We've come a long way together, if you have done the exercises and actually practiced your panel presentation
on video to the point where you like it, you're going to be in great shape.
I have absolute confidence in you.
If you're now happy with it, it's going to be good.
But I do want to leave you with that one last special tip, that secret ingredient that can make the
difference sometimes.
And here it is.
Have fun.
When you look at the best panelist at major trade associations conferences, even in your own organization,
the people who sparkle, it's not just what they say, it's that they're exuding the sense that they're
having fun with this.
There's a certain joy.
There's no place in the world they'd rather be than with their fellow panelists, their their fellow
experts talking about this subject.
Part of it is just a smile on the face when it's appropriate.
Part of it is just the energy and the excitement they bring to it.
This isn't just drudgery.
Let's face it.
A lot of people have awful jobs and they're digging ditches somewhere.
And you get to be on a panel talking about ideas.
This is exciting.
This is fun.
So anything you can do to demonstrate that you're having fun, to show your passion in a way that's
authentic and real, not just rah rah cheer, but in an authentic way, it's going to be contagious
and it's going to increase the odds that people focus on you, listen to you, focus on your message,
remember your message, and come away with a positive impression of you.
Good luck on all your panel discussion.

--- Conclusion for Speaking on Panels ---

So how do you know what messages, what topics, what subtopics are going to be of the greatest interest
to your audience?
I have a radical suggestion for you, just pick up the phone and ask them if you're giving a presentation
to 50 people at a trade conference on Friday, call one or two of them and just ask them what they think
people would be interested to ask them what they're interested in.
And you can perhaps list 20 ideas, see which three or four jump out at them.
You know, this day of information being so accessible and everyone Googling everything and going to
Wikipedia, people often forget the simplest way to get information.
Sometimes it's just pick up that phone and have a brief 34 minute conversation with someone.
Now, if you are leading some kind of a seminar and you have a database of people who are supposed to
be there, you can also send out a questionnaire, an advance list, your 20 possible messages or topics
subthemes.
Ask people to list three or four they're most interested or put them in priority.
Also have an open ended question.
Ask them what you would like or what they would like you to address.
Your best source of information quite often is your actual audience.
You can't wait till you're in front of them and ask them, but you can communicate in advance.
It's not hard to do e-mail posted on a blog for comments or just pick up the phone.

--- How do I know what messages and topics will be Public Speaking ---

How to prepare a speech in a nutshell, do the following, brainstorm on every message you could say
to this audience on the topic at hand.
Narrow it down to the top five.
Brainstorm on a story or two and an example for each message point.
Come up with a fact or a number for each message point, then have a simple one page outline that has
no more than three or four words per line.
Then practice the speech on video.
It can be your own cell phone.
Keep practicing until you like it.
If you do that, you will be ahead of 95 percent of the public speakers in the world.

--- How to Prepare a Speech Public Speaking ---

So when I say an elevator pitch, all I really need is a relatively brief presentation.
You're trying to communicate one idea.
Typically that idea is there's one thing great about you or that you can do that would make it worthwhile
for this person to sit and meet with you.
So you could be pitching a venture capitalist on why you have a great idea, a great startup that should
be funded and you want a formal meeting.
You could be pitching someone on the idea of hiring you at their company.
You could be pitching someone on the idea of why they need to donate money to your favorite charity.
But the point is, it's a brief amount of time.
There's no PowerPoint in the elevator.
There's no time for holding up a bunch of props or handing out PDS or other handouts.
And it might not actually be in the elevator.
The idea is that it's a brief presentation and it might be unplanned.
It could be.
You just bumped into someone at a meeting, coming out of a meeting, at a conference somewhere.
It doesn't have to be in an elevator, but it's useful to think of an elevator in terms of getting in
at the first floor.
And I've got 15, 20, maybe 30 seconds till this person gets off on the fifth floor, tenth floor or
15th floor.
So it is helpful to frame your thoughts as far as being on an elevator and just not having enough time.
So that's what we're going to focus on in this course, how to make a brief presentation where the goal
is getting people to then want to meet with you to have a more in-depth conversation.
That's it.
That's all an elevator pitch is.
So let's hop right in.

--- Learn the Secret of Great Elevator Pitches ---

So how do you pace a speech or a presentation?
The biggest problem most people have is they get a little nervous, they start speaking too quickly,
and when you speak too quickly, it tends to flatten out your voice.
It essentially destroys the punctuation of speaking.
If you're reading a book, you have certain cues to your eye.
A comma means a pause, a period, a longer pause, a paragraph break, a longer pause, an actual chapter
in a white sheet of paper.
In between is an even longer break.
But when you're speaking, if everything sort of comes out, here's my next data point.
Here's my next data point.
It's like reading one big run on sentence with no punctuation.
You could do it, but it's a lot of work.
So you need to put in pauses.
You need to catch your breath.
Sometimes you can do this by walking a few feet, not saying anything.
You need to look at audience members and see are you getting it sometimes toss out a question to the
audience, actually have them answer it.
Sometimes you toss out a question and it's simply a rhetorical question and you let people think about
what you said you need pausing throughout your speech and you need variation in speed and tone saying
this is what kills a speech.
The consistency is what kills a speech.
People think, oh, I'm being very professional.
Everything's even you know, you don't want to be even keeled.
You want to be conversational.
That means sometimes faster, sometimes slower, sometimes louder, sometimes softer.
And sometimes a pause is what's most effective.
That's how you pace your speech.

--- How to Pace a Speech Public Speaking ---

It's important when planning your elevator pitch to really keep a focus on what your goal is, your
goal is not to make the sale.
Your goal is not to walk out of an elevator with a 50 million dollar check.
Your goal is an agreement from that person for a meeting that that's it.
Whether it is for a job interview, whether it's for a formal meeting to request venture capital funding.
But the goal is just to make the person say, OK, what this person saying has value, this person seems
credible.
This person pass the smell test of someone.
I would want to spend 10 or 15 or 20 minute meeting with.
That's it.
Once you convince yourself that you're trying to make the wholesale in that elevator talk really quickly
to cover all the facts, you will have destroyed your elevator pitch.
So that is the first goal I need you to even write.
It sounds childish, but I need you to write it down.
A goal to get a meeting to discuss my new venture or to get a job in it.
Whatever your goal is, whatever that type of meeting is, I need you to write that down and to be focused
on it, because otherwise it's too easy to sort of have this elevator pitch morph into a general presentation
or a general pitch.
And that's simply not what an elevator pitch is.
So write down your goals now.

--- Accomplish Your Goals After You Deliver Your Pitch ---

How do you close a speech?
The worst thing you can do with a speech is just sort of finish abruptly, that's it.
Any questions?
Act like you're nervous and scurry off the stage or away from the front of the room.
Now, you don't have to have some big, overly dramatic ending.
You don't have to get down on bended knee.
You don't have to bring a tear to people's eyes.
But you do need to conclude with some finality.
Simply restate your main point are your main couple of points or maybe even have a story that fleshes
out your main point.
Let people know exactly what you want them to do and to remember and finish on purpose.
Finish as though you planned it.
You don't want to be like a car that's going down the highway 70 miles an hour and simply runs out of
gas.
That's what many speeches seem like.
You want to sum up a big main point.
Stop.
Pause, step back, wait a second or two and then say, I'll be happy to take questions if there's time
for that.
That way you'll come across as polished like you've put thought into it.
It leaves a good final taste in the mouth of your audience.
You'll be a much stronger closing.

--- How to Close a Speech Public Speaking ---

When you're giving an elevator pitch, it's important to realize it's not a whole speech, it's not
a whole presentation, you can't cover 10 ideas, five ideas.
It's not even a media interview.
Or you can typically try to focus on three message points.
It's an elevator pitch.
That means you need to focus on one idea.
What is your one big idea that you're going to hold up in front of someone, tantalize them to make
them want to bite into it, like holding a piece of cheese over a mouse?
What is that one idea you have that is going to really interest someone to make them want to take your
card or say, yes, please call me on Monday and set up an appointment or yes, stop by for an interview.
What is that one idea?
If you try to convey five ideas, it's as good as conveying nothing.
It will get lost.
So I need you to brainstorm right now on your own elevator pitch.
What is the one idea that you want to convey to someone?
What's the thing that's special about your business, about your job candidacy or what it is you do
or your charity?
That's really, really important not only to you, but potentially to this person who doesn't necessarily
know you.
By the way, this works, even if you're at a networking event and everyone goes around the room and
introduce themselves for 20 seconds, that's a type of an elevator pitch.
What is it you can say in that introduction to get people to remember you and want to talk to you?
Most people just go through the motions, whether it's on the elevator or at a networking event.
Hi, my name is this my title?
Is this my organization?
Is this we do insert something generic, vague and abstract.
May I talk to you more?
May I tell you more about my services.
That's boring.
It's not interesting.
It's not memorable.
It doesn't stand out.
So for example, if I'm at a networking event and I have an opportunity to stand up and give my elevator
pitch, I don't start off by saying hi.
My name is TJ Walker.
I'm president of Media Training Worldwide.
I coach executives how to give effective speeches to live audiences and to the media.
And we have workshops and seminars and we have a blurb that would put everybody to sleep.
So that's not how I would do it.
My elevator pitch is simply this.
Imagine the phone rings.
It's The New York Times.
They want to interview you about your business for the next half an hour.
Are you confident you would get the exact quotes you want in that story tomorrow, that you would look
and sound your best to the reporter?
Well, if not, it means you're in trouble.
That's what I help people do, is prepare for me to give interviews.
If you give me your card at the end of this meeting, I'll give you a copy of my book, Media Training
A to Z to help you prepare for that media interview.
That's in less than 30 seconds.
I talked about a need of the people in the room or the metaphorical elevator.
I talked about a solution before I ever talked about my name and I talked about how I can give them
value now, all in less than thirty seconds.
That's my elevator pitch.
Is it a perfect elevator pitch?
No, but it's a lot better than the standard name, rank serial number that most people have.
So I need you.
Don't worry about the wording.
You're making it clever, the hook yet I need you to focus for now.
What's the one idea you have that you think is actually going to be interesting to this person you're
presenting to?
I need you to write it down in one sentence.
Well, jazz it up later.
But for right now, I need you to really focus on one idea that you think if someone could really hear
you understand it and remember it, they would want to meet with you.
They'd want to take a meeting with you.
Write that idea down now.

--- You Will Focus on Your One Big Idea ---

What's the best way to put your audience at ease if you're giving a speech or presentation now, you
may be feeling a little nervous for your presentation, but also remember, some of your audience members
are feeling, if not nervous, at least a little uncomfortable because they're thinking this could be
really boring or, wow, maybe this person is so intimidating.
What if they call on me?
You don't want either one of those responses.
So for starters, make sure you have great interesting content.
If they find you interesting throughout, they're going to be relaxed.
Also, try to get to the room early and actually have real conversations with people, show them that
you care about them, their concerns.
You're not just the celebrity who hops off the helicopter to bestow your wisdom, get there early,
ideally an hour early and have real conversations with people.
Ideally, you can weave some of these conversations into your actual presentation.
That way people feel like they were a part of it.
You're not just giving something canned, something off the shelf.
You're tailoring your speech to them, their needs and you're listening to them that will make them
feel much more comfortable.
The other thing is you get to realize you don't want your audience to comfortable because what happens
if people are really comfortable?
You don't want your audience falling asleep.
This can be a problem if there's theater style seating and people are two, three, five, 10, 20 rows
back and they don't feel like you can really see them.
So the more you can walk around the room, get close to them.
If it's a big room, try to have a wireless microphone so you don't have to stay up on stage behind
a lectern, because at some point, if people feel like you can't see them, then they feel like they
can do anything.
And next thing you know, even if you're giving a good presentation and you've lost them, so you want
your audience comfortable but not too comfortable, they need to see that you can see them, that you
care about them and that you're trying to help them do that.
And their temperament will be exactly as you want it.
Not uncomfortable, but not asleep.

--- How to Put Your Audience at Ease Public Speaking ---

The devil may be in the details, but that's not where you win in an elevator pitch, you maybe give
a couple of details, but you can't just launch right into all the details of your latest app or your
software program.
You've got to simplify.
You've got to simplify, simplify, simplify.
You've really got to get to exactly what it is you're doing that you think this person should be excited
about and what the benefits are to that person.
Don't go on and on with details.
Don't go on and on with facts.
If they're interested, they express interest, take their car, send them a business plan, send them
a resume, send them a summary of your services, but don't overwhelm with too much information here.
You need to wet their appetite to want more to perhaps want a meeting with you or to read your business
summary or your business plan.
So it takes a lot of discipline.
A lot of times people are so excited about their new business or their project or their charity.
Someone said, I'll talk for a second.
And they just and they're just dumping data point after data point after data point.
It's too much.
You need to really simplify it.
Now, this is a little bit confusing.
Sometimes people say, well, it's gotta be 30 seconds or 15 seconds.
If you're at a conference somewhere and there's a coffee break and you see someone who you've really
been wanting to pitch, you may have three or five minutes.
You've got to judge the person based on the circumstances.
Now, if you get on the first floor and they're on the 100th floor, you've got a little time.
If you're walking in the same direction at an airport, you've got a little time.
So always don't rush unnecessarily.
But also don't try to just speak quickly and cram in a lot of detail.
You always have to be thinking about how can you simplify your message so that you're giving this person
the very best of what you have.
So they understand the most important point and they want more.
So start thinking about how you're going to do that with your elevator pitch, because we're going to
be practicing here in a minute.
This is not just listening to lectures for me.
In theory, you're going to practice again and again and again on video until you like your elevator
pitch, until you are excited about meeting with you.
That's where we've got to get.
But for right now, focus on simplifying and refining your message, because I'm going to want you to
put together a message that's really about 30 seconds, even though I fully understand there may be
times when you have a five minute elevator pitch or it may be 20 seconds, but for the purposes of our
planning and our exercises, I want you to start thinking in terms of a 30 second message.

--- Never Confuse Your Prospect Again ---

Should I make my speech, a formal presentation or an informal presentation?
Folks, I'm here to tell you, there is no such thing as a formal presentation or an informal presentation
or a PowerPoint presentation or a financial presentation, there are only two types of presentations
in the entire world.
Do you know what they are?
That's right.
It's either good or it's bad from the audience's perspective, the only thing they're ever thinking
is, wow, this T.J., he's really boring.
I'm not really going to pay attention.
Let me check my email or James over here.
He's interesting.
Let me pay attention.
This is useful.
That's the only thing going on in your audience's mind.
So great speakers adopt the mindset of their audience, not the mindset of the speaker.
You've got to put yourself metaphorically in the chairs of your audience so you can experiences as they
do.
So here's the big problem.
When I hear someone ask you about formal versus informal, once somebody tells themselves, oh, I'm
now giving a formal speech, they tend to make their speech awful.
They tend to throw away examples, humor, case studies, interesting stories.
They tend to stop moving naturally.
They tend to literally stiffen up, stand behind a lectern, read a whole bunch of boring bullet points
on a PowerPoint.
Now, I'm not anti PowerPoint.
I use it all the time, but I don't use it in a so-called formal way.
I use it in an interesting, memorable way.
So everything you do for your audience needs to be looked at from the standpoint of is this interesting,
useful and memorable to their audience?
Yes, I understand if you're with three friends having a beer, you may use curse words or certain language
you wouldn't use in a boardroom setting.
But beyond that, the things that make you interesting and informal conversation will also make you
interesting as a speaker.
So don't throw it away just because you now have to give a formal speech.

--- How to Give a Formal Speech Public Speaking ---

The best writers in the world learn to write in part by reading lots of other good writers, great novelists
spend their time reading lots of other great novels.
They don't just read their time and don't spend their time reading comics or watching sports and never
reading novels.
They immerse themselves in the world.
They want to excel.
And the same should be true of you when it comes to giving your elevator pitch.
There are so many places where you can find great elevator pitches.
I mean, there's a prime time show on NBC Shark Tank where you can, and it's on CNBC to where you can
watch people giving pitches.
Now there are a little bit longer than what most people consider elevator pitches, but some of them
are quite brief.
And you can learn a lot from it because always within the first minute you get a sense of what their
business is that's important.
You can go to other Web Web sites like Ultralights Startups, has tons and tons of fantastic elevator
pitches.
They're really brief.
They're less than three minutes of Internet startups here in New York City.
Just go to YouTube and type an elevator pitch and you'll see all kinds of examples.
So don't try to just come up with something from scratch in a vacuum, learn from what other people
do.
Now, if there are people in your industry, you know, are good at it, research that go to their websites
don't copy any one's style or say exactly what they're saying, but have influences.
If you spend hours and hours and hours looking at other people, give great elevator pitches, it's
going to rub off on you.
Some of it.
It's going to shape your thinking.
It's going to elevate your standards.
So before we really dive in here, I do want you to spend a little time finding some elevator pitch
role models.
So please do that.
Now, if nothing else, just go to YouTube and type in great elevator pitches, see what you find.
See what you like.

--- Role Models ---

So I want you to keep refining your elevator pitch, it's OK to write it down, but it's not because
I want you to memorize it.
Memorizing things is difficult, number one.
Number two, it can make you sound artificial and contrived if you are trying to say something word
for word and get it just right.
So OK to write it down.
But again, the goal is not memorization.
So I have two more tests for your elevator pitch that I want you to administer.
I want you to ask yourself from the standpoint of the person you're pitching, what's in it for me?
How is this really going to benefit me?
Because the person you're pitching already knows the downside.
The downside is if they act interested in what you're saying or they say, yes, you could come in and
waste an hour their life that they might not ever get, you could be hounding them and emailing them
and calling them, asking them for money and follow up meetings for the next six months.
So anyone you're pitching has a very clear idea of the downside for even acting like they're interested
in you if they own a large company and you know that they hire a lot of people and it's well known they're
constantly being hit on for give my son this job, give my nephew, give my niece this job.
How about an internship?
Please hire this person.
They're constantly being badgered by people.
They're getting hit up by other elevator pitches all the time.
So they know the downside of acting.
Interested in what you're saying and in giving you more time, we're saying yes to a meeting.
They don't yet know what the upside is.
I need you very quickly, like in the first 15 seconds, address some benefit for them, and I also
need you to somehow convey what's different.
What's interesting about this, I mean, if you're a venture capitalist, you can just open up your
email every day.
And there are hundreds of people pitching you business plans and sending you email request.
If you own your own company and it's a sizable company, you're going to have people sending you resumes
every single day.
So the fact that you want a job or that you want money is an interesting because people who are receiving
elevator pitches hear that all day long, every day.
So I need you to give some real thought to what is it you have to say that's interesting.
A little different than not to be wildly funny, you don't have to have some app that's going to create
world peace and solve the energy crisis, but got something interesting.
This person who doesn't know you is not obligated to give you their time, to give you their attention,
to give you their eyeballs, to give you anything they're not obligated to, that they could, in fact,
just walk by.
So I need you to really give some serious thought.
What's in it for them?
How have you positioned something you're saying that they will perceive as a benefit to them?
And what do you had to say?
That's interesting and that seems credible.
So really, think about those two questions and rework your elevator pitch, because we are going to
be practicing very soon.

--- The 2 Key Questions You Must Answer ---

Every elevator is a little bit different.
There are times when you already kind of know the person, it's not just a random 10 seconds bumping
into them in the elevator, but they haven't granted you 30 minutes on their calendar either.
But you can perhaps go into a little more detail and let them know, hey, I'm sending you the business
plan.
Perhaps we can discuss it later.
There may be times like that when it's appropriate, but there are other times when you may have just
met someone there in a hurry.
You've given your elevator pitch.
There's some interest, but they're not exactly stopping and pulling out their calendars, saying,
can you meet for a whole hour next Thursday?
What do you do?
That doesn't seem pushy.
Now, if you're in Hollywood, I wouldn't recommend saying here's my entire script.
People hate that I wouldn't give someone a whole book that people don't really want to lug around a
whole bunch of stuff.
But I do think a business card shows your professional, whether you're a job seeker or whether you
have a startup and you're looking for investment capital, but sometimes it helps to give a little bit
extra.
So if I met, for example, a public relations conference and having a quick chat with someone who has
clients who go on TV all the time, I could say, hey, how would you like a quick top 10 list of things
to do right before you go on a TV interview to prepare yourself and your clients something to keep in
the wallet to really help right before that interview?
Sure.
Who's going to say no to that?
Boom.
I've got a business card that's got 10 tips on things to do right before you go on TV to prepare to
come across your very best.
It just so happens to be my business card with my name and all that usual stuff.
So rather than just giving someone a business card, which benefits me, I've given them some information
that can benefit them.
And when I combine that with something else I might have said, it just increases the chances that A
they remember me.
B, if I do connect with them through a phone call or an email that there's a sense of I've already
provided value.
So sure, it's worth spending a little more time with this person.
Now, the business card with extra information or that is just one tip.
I'm not suggesting that's the only way to go.
And for certain audiences, you might actually be able to give them some.
Maybe it's a thumbnail with a website already on it.
You decide, but don't make it too big and bulky.
No one wants to carry around stuff, especially if they're at a conference and they're traveling and
no one wants to carry about more stuff.
But think about something you can give away to the person that demonstrates your expertise and that
gives value.
And that's why I wouldn't suggest a resume.
Now, we've all been to business networking events and you meet some bright young student who just graduated.
They have the resume.
It's not the end of the world.
But if you're leaving that networking event and going out to dinner other places, who wants to really
carry around extra sheets of paper?
I would suggest providing something that is smaller and provides value.
So think about what you can give to the person if and only if they do seem interested in what you're
saying and would like more information or a taste of something before they actually agree to a meeting.
So think of what you can actually give them that small and light.

--- Give Someone a Reason to Want More from You ---

How can you learn how to speak with confidence?
You hear this all the time, people want confidence speakers, oh, she was so confident, but what
happens if you're about to stand up to speak and instead of feeling confident, you're feeling scared,
nervous, uncomfortable, tentative?
Well, let me tell you the number one way of gaining confidence when you speak, and that is to practice
in advance on video and then watch the video and then to keep doing it until you like the speech.
So you can point to a video of your own speech and say, wow, that person looks really confident.
I'd love to speak half as well as that person, and you're speaking to a video that's speaking about
a video of yourself.
That's how, you know, you're confident and that will give you everything you need in order to get
through your presentation.
Let's step back a minute.
What makes people not have confidence?
It's because you just don't know how you're coming across.
You have doubts.
You're not certain.
You're thinking, hmm, maybe I'll be really boring.
Well, guess what?
You might be really boring.
What if nobody understands me?
Well, maybe people can't understand you because you're speaking so softly or so quickly.
All of those things are very easy to test.
All you have to do is get your phone out and record yourself or a webcam or any other video recording
device.
So if you're lacking confidence, chances are there's a good reason.
It's because you haven't done your due diligence.
If I said to you, dictate a memo, send it to every important client, your boss, your board of directors.
Oh, and by the way, you're not allowed to spell check the memo.
You're not allowed to test for grammar.
You can't make it look pretty.
You've got to just dictate it and send it out.
Wouldn't that make you nervous?
Of course it would, because you wouldn't have been able to refine it to eliminate the major defects.
It's exactly the same thing with speaking and with speaking.
It's not about the text and rewriting and running it through grammar check and spell check.
It's about you actually seeing that person in this case, you speak and doing it in a way where you
know, you're coming across your best.
Now, nothing's foolproof.
Some of you may be looking at me saying, well, I don't like this guy's style.
I don't like the way he uses hands and I don't like his beady eyes.
You know what?
It just doesn't bother me because I've seen myself talk on this very subject numerous times and other
videos, and I'm confident that this is how I want to come across, that I really can't do any better
than the way I'm doing right now.
So I couldn't be nervous even if I tried.
You can be completely confident, too.
You just have to practice on video till you like what you see.

--- How to Speak with Confidence Public Speaking ---

I mentioned earlier that one of the things you should do to become great at elevator pitches is to study
great elevator pitches, go to YouTube, Google great elevator pitches and see what you see.
But I also want you to learn what not to do.
And fortunately, the world is filled with bad elevator pitches.
So I want you to see what other people do.
So if, for example, you're at some kind of angel investing event and people are standing up giving
their elevator pitches, really listen to them, watch them.
How are they coming across?
How do they look?
How do they sound?
If you're at some sort of a networking event, people are standing up and introducing themselves.
Listen to that.
If you have other friends who are in a position where they get pitched frequently, ask them what they
don't like.
Here is, in my experience, what most people do wrong with their elevator pitch is all they do is talk
about me, me, me.
Hi, my name is this.
I want this.
I do this.
I want your time.
I want this.
And it's just not interesting.
It's me, me, me, me, me, not you.
Here's how I can help you and it's.
Hi my name is TJ Walker.
I'm a senior partner at the firm of X, Y and Z and we handle litigation in commercial and this and
that and civil this and we do a full panoply of all legal services.
And so if you need legal services, please consider our firm.
Well, guess what, that just described a million lawyers in the United States.
So there's nothing interesting there, there's no benefit to me, and it's just generic, it's abstract,
it's fuzzy and it falls with a thud.
So you've heard me say that, but I want you to develop an ear and an eye for bad pitches.
It's like anything else.
If you're constantly analyzing the world looking for something, it just shapes your whole being and
you get better at it.
If you're constantly looking for the good elevator pitches, as we've talked about earlier, and you're
not copying them, but you're letting that influence you.
But you're also looking for the bad elevator pitches.
You're letting that influence you to by not doing it.
So the people who seem scared or stiff and you're worried about them, that's not going to work.
The people who don't even look someone in the eye that doesn't work and the people who just give the
name, rank and serial, my name, my title, my organization.
And here all the services we do that never works.
It just doesn't generate more interest.
So whatever you do, avoid the basic blunders people make.
And it's pretty easy to avoid those basic mistakes if you just give a little thought.
Plus, follow the lessons we've discussed in this course, it's easy to avoid that.
So become a connoisseur of elevator pitches, the good ones and the bad ones, it will make you better.

--- Watch Bad Elevator Pitches ---

So what do you do if you simply do not like the sound of your own voice?
I get a lot of criticism for my advice on this topic, but I'm just going to give you the straight advice
and those of you who hate me for it, fine.
You're going to hate me for my advice is essentially get over it.
Your voice isn't that bad.
Here's my experience.
And I've worked with more than 10000 clients from six continents for the last 30 years.
Most people don't like the sound of their own voice.
Here's why.
When you're hearing your voice come back to you, throw a speaker because you're watching a video of
yourself on TV or on a cell phone from a voicemail, you're hearing your voice in a relatively non distorted
way compared to how you normally hear your voice.
You normally hear your voice distorted through the bones in your skull and in your nasal cavities in
your mouth.
So you're hearing your voice all day long in a very distorted way.
So when you hear your voice coming through speakers, yeah, there's still some distortion, but it's
actually much closer to how you sound in real life to everyone else.
So it's not that your voice is bad or awful, it's just that you're not used to hearing your voice.
And it's jarring.
Imagine if you are used to looking at yourself in the mirror and you always see one face and now you
see somebody on video that's you.
And it's a completely different face.
Might not be an ugly face.
It's just weird.
That's kind of what it's like.
They're basically three types of voices in the world and I'm making these statistics up generally to
make a point.
Don't ask for the research, but in my view, less than, you know, 0.01 percent of speakers have voices
so great that they can roll out of bed, go do a TV or radio commercial, voice over, get their million
dollar check, go home, go back to bed.
There's also roughly point zero, one percent of voices that are so awful.
People hear the voice.
They want to run out of the room or jump out the window.
Everybody else, far in excess of 99 percent, have voices that are just voices.
Not so great.
People are going to pay a bunch of money, not so awful that it drives people away.
My voice is in that category now.
Some people like my voice, some don't.
No one's willing to pay me a ton of money just for my voice.
And no one wants to run out of the room simply hearing me say something.
They might not like what I say, but it's not the tone of my voice.
Chances are you are exactly like that, that your voice simply isn't as bad as you think.
Now, if you truly have some kind of a lisp, a speech impediment, you may want to see a speech therapist
if you have a nasal problem where your nasal cavities are clogged and that's causing certain problems
and giving you a nasal twang.
Yeah, maybe you need surgery.
But if I were you, I would be far more interested in actually having something interesting to say when
you speak, because that's a problem we can solve.
I mean, let's say your voice isn't great.
If you have something truly interesting and memorable to say when you speak, you're going to be in
good shape.
Barbara Walters doesn't have a great voice.
She's made hundreds of millions of dollars over the years by speaking.
And yet there are people with great voices who are homeless.
So I know that some of you are going to be dissatisfied because you want some magic little tip to make
yourself sound like you have this golden voice.
And I'm here to tell you it's probably not your problem at all.

--- What to Do if You Don't Like Your Voice Public Speaking ---

Thanks for being a part of this course on how to deliver an elevator pitch.
It's a fantastic skill to have.
You need it and will be able to use it throughout life.
I hope you have taken away a few basic concepts here, which is focus on something interesting you have
to say that will be seen as an instant benefit to the person you're pitching.
Really simplify it.
Get to the point quickly and focus on one idea.
Don't try to educate the person on every single thing your business or your organization does.
Focus on one thing, whet their appetite and don't lose sight of the goal.
The goal is to get an actual meeting so you can go into much more detail because that's where the real
sell will take place.
That's where you'll get the contract done.
It's not all going to happen in that 30 seconds.
So please don't forget the most important tip of all, and that is to practice your elevator pitch on
video and tell you love it.
I think I know lots about public speaking and presenting an elevator pitches, but you actually know
the most about what works for you, what you like and what you don't like.
And that's why I'd strongly recommend don't give an elevator pitch until you practiced it on video.
And you like to do that, you'll be in great shape.
Good luck with all of your elevator pitches in life.

--- Conclusion to How to Deliver Elevator Pitches ---

So how do you start a speech with an icebreaker?
The main thing is you can't seem overly manipulative of people.
You shouldn't start off with.
How many of you would like to make more money?
Because that seems cheesy.
It seems like you're just overtly manipulating people.
I also don't like it when certain motivational speaker say, well, turn to the person next to you and
tell them your five greatest aspirations in life and why you haven't succeeded.
That's just too personal.
You've got to make it relevant to who you are, what you're about, what you're trying to convey.
So if, for example, you are someone who helps people with their elevator speech, you may just want
to ask people as an icebreaker, turn to the person next to you and tell them in 30 seconds what you
do for a living and then ask a couple of people, OK, what did your partner say?
That could be an interesting way of getting people to talk, getting them to think about the concepts
you're going to be revealing today and engaging people in a way that doesn't seem canned, phony or
overly manipulative.

--- How to Start a Speech with an Icebreaker Public Speaking ---

So how many slides should you put in a PowerPoint presentation?
I know some of you want a very firm answer, like seven or 10.
It's really not that simple.
Here's the bigger test I would give you for each slide you have, ask yourself, does this slide make
my idea more memorable than me simply saying it?
And does this slide make my idea more understandable than simply saying it?
If you can't get a yes answer to both of those things, you should probably throw the slide away.
Now, having said that, I've seen people who only have two or three slides in a presentation and the
presentation was awful because there was nothing interesting or memorable in the slides, nothing that
enhanced it at all.
I've also seen speakers, well-known sales expert Jeffrey Gettleman, for example.
I've seen him give a presentation with one hundred and twenty slides and it was a great presentation.
Now, it wasn't necessarily great because of the slides, but the slides didn't bring him down.
Your focus should not be the number of slides your focus should be.
What are the ideas you have to communicate to this audience now?
How can you use every tool possible to make these ideas more understandable, more memorable?
One tool is by telling a story, another tool, giving an example, another tool, a handout before
after the presentation.
Another tool is a visual that you display and a PowerPoint slide.
Another tool could be a prop.
So focus on what the real goal is, communicating your ideas, then use all the tools available.
If you do that, the number of slides will take care of themselves.

--- How Many Slides to Put in a PowerPoint Presentation Public Speaking ---

The first thing I want you to do is to write down what is the one thing that you actually want people
to do who listen to this presentation, are you trying to get them to purchase something from you?
Recommend something, approve a budget?
You need to have a clear, clear laser focus on the outcome.
Don't get lost in all the weeds.
Don't get worried about all the charts of quarterly earnings for the last 10 years.
Focus right now on the one thing that you want your audience to do after you give your presentation.
Write it down now.

--- Focus on Exactly What You Want Your Audience to Do ---

How many bullet points should you put on each PowerPoint slide?
It's a frequent question, and there are a lot of people have very specific ironclad rules, three or
five.
I think you're missing the point when asking that question.
The real question should be what ideas do you have and how can you communicate it more effectively to
your audience?
How can you make your ideas more understandable and more memorable?
In all of my research and testing audiences all over the world, bullet points with text on PowerPoint
slides that you project while speaking are completely ineffective.
So it frankly doesn't really matter.
Now, if you're e-mailing people a PowerPoint or giving it as a handout later put as many bullet points
up as you want because people can read at their own speed.
If it's interesting, they can reread it, they can highlight it, they can file it away, reference
it again.
But when you are speaking and you're standing up in front of people and you're pointing to a whole bunch
of text and bullet points behind you, you're asking people to read while you're talking to them, while
you're distracting them.
That's not how people like to read in real life.
So I would recommend not actually using bullet points in the PowerPoint that you project find to use
them for the PowerPoint that you're e-mailing or handing out to people.
And if you are going to use bullet points and I can't dissuade you from that, then I would simply say
the fewer bullet points per page, the better off you are.

--- How Many Bullet Points Should Be on a PowerPoint Slide Public Speaking ---

So before we go any further, I've got to give you some top tips on what not to do.
I want to save you time, not waste your time.
And there's a whole bunch of ways to waste time.
If it's the night before a big speech, for one thing, stop gathering more data.
You already have enough data to present to your audience.
You probably already have enough here.
So at this point, it's not about gathering more data.
You've got to figure out how to shape it, how to put a spotlight on what's most important.
Next thing, don't write the speech out word for word and don't try to memorize it.
That's incredibly time consuming.
It's tedious and it's usually not very successful with audiences, because if you write it all out and
you've got to give the speech tomorrow morning, there's going to be this tendency to try to read it
because that will seem safe and stop a minute and think, how do you feel when someone reads a speech
to you?
You're probably thinking, wow, this guy is really boring and insulting.
He's assuming I don't know how to read it.
He's just going to read.
He could have emailed it to me.
We could have all stayed home.
So don't write your speech out.
Don't try to memorize your speech.
And for goodness sake, don't try to print it all out in text bullet points on a PowerPoint thinking,
well, this will be great.
I'll just read the PowerPoint and use that as my people hate that.
Don't even use PowerPoint unless you have great visuals that are not based on text.
And if you've waited until the night before, let's forget the PowerPoint.
Let's give people a good presentation based on the ideas you care about.
So let's summarize the things to not do.
Don't gather more and more and more data.
Don't be emailing.
Twenty colleagues trying to get fifty more pages in.
Don't write your speech, don't try to memorize your speech and don't try to use PowerPoint as the poor
man's the poor woman's teleprompter.
Put all that stuff away and now we can get back to what's really important in the next lesson.

--- Stop This right Now! ---

I love PowerPoint.
It's the greatest tool ever.
It is fantastic for speakers and great for audiences.
Do you agree?
Well, I'm being a little bit facetious, I do like PowerPoint, I use it myself sometimes five days
a week.
However, the big problem with most PowerPoint presentations is they're so deadly dull, all they do
is put the audience to sleep.
They have become sleep aids because they are nothing but a boring data dump of text.
They become the teleprompter for the speaker.
Now, a news anchor using a teleprompter can be effective because you don't actually see the words.
The news anchor appears to just be talking to you.
But when all the words are up there and you see the person kind of turning their back and blah, blah,
blah, but it destroys the whole effect, it becomes incredibly boring.
So the first thing you've got to realize if you're going to use PowerPoint effectively is you can't
use it just as your teleprompter.
The poor man's the poor woman's teleprompter, because if you do, you're just going to put everybody
to sleep.

--- Don't Use Your PowerPoint Slides to Put People to Sleep Public Speaking ---

I know the panic is setting in, you've got to give this speech tomorrow or maybe even later today,
all these ideas are swirling around you.
Just stop.
Just stop for a minute.
I have been testing audiences around the world for years and years and years, and I've never had an
audience.
Remember more than five ideas from the best speaker they've seen in the last year.
And that may be a two hour speech, something that's been built up for a long time.
If you can get your audience to remember anything, you're ahead of the game.
If you can get them to remember three ideas, by my own estimate, you would be in the top ninety five
percent of all public speakers.
So let's just cut to the chase.
And instead of listing every single bullet point about your company or your quarterly results, your
cause, I want you on a single sheet of paper or a single computer screen.
Write down just three ideas that you want your audience to know, understand and remember and potentially
act upon three ideas.
I don't mean three big themes with twenty seven different little sub points and Roman numeral.
No, I mean three ideas, ten words or less for each one.
So no one.
Ten words or less.
Number two.
Ten words or less.
And number three, ten words or less.
Let's focus on the big picture of a few little things are out or missing.
That's not what people remember.
Your speeches don't have to be perfect.
As long as you convey a few good ideas, you'll be OK.
Most people don't care about the other stuff.
You make a little mistake.
It doesn't matter if you get the big things right.
For example, just occurred to me.
I forgot to take my glasses off before I take this, but it also realized that.
What do you care if I have glasses on?
So I'm not going to redo this.
I'm simply going to speak and make it my best.

--- These Are the Three Most Important Ideas in Your Presentation ---

When it comes to PowerPoint, the most effective way to use slides in a presentation is to have no more
than one idea per slide.
Now, that sounds crazy to some of you, because you're used to thinking in terms of, well, sure,
you have 15 bullet points or seven bullet points or four charts or only two charts.
I'm telling you, you're going to be much better off focusing on one idea per slide and to make that
idea come alive, not using text.
No, I'm not anti-tax.
I love text.
I read books every day, newspapers every day.
I've written eight books.
But I don't have any evidence that projecting text up on a slide when you're speaking is particularly
helpful to your audience.
So limit your slide to one idea, one idea per slide, and you'll actually be communicating more, not
less.

--- PowerPoint Slides, One idea Per Slide Public Speaking ---

In a future lesson, I'm going to tell you specifically about how you practice on video, but I'll never
forget why it rings so true to me and why it's so important.
Many years ago, I was training a prime minister over in Eastern Europe, my first time in that part
of the world.
And the prime minister said, well, T.J., you mind if I give it in my native language?
It was an Eastern European language I didn't understand.
So we'll sure find when we're in this former dictator summer palace.
This was a democracy now surrounded by bodyguards with machine guns.
And the prime minister stands up, proceeds to read his speech, head down in his foreign language.
We then watch the tape.
He turns to me and says, well, T.J., what did you think of the presentation?
That was frankly a little bit nervous?
Because I thought he was awful.
He was so boring.
It was just monotone head down, no expression, no eye contact.
I was also thinking him in the foreign part of the world, I'm surrounded by people with guns.
This was a long time ago.
Do I tell him the truth or do I sort of make him happy?
And I finally said, you know what?
He's paying me a bunch of money to tell him the truth.
I'll just tell him the truth.
I said, with all due respect, Mr. Prime Minister, I have no idea what you said, but you bored the
hell out of me.
He looked at me.
He looked at his armed guards.
He looked back at the video.
I thought for a second said, you're right, it was boring as hell.
So what do we do?
We took his speech, tore it up.
He came up with a new simple outline where he spoke, looking up, giving examples, telling stories,
looked at the video and he loved it.
OK, so what did I just do that I told a story?
Is it a brilliant story now seeking to win awards now?
It happens to be true.
All I was trying to do was to communicate one point the importance of practicing on video, because
it becomes obvious to you how awful and boring you can be.
Sometimes anybody can learn.
It doesn't matter if you're prime minister or a seven year old giving a show and tell presentation in
a classroom, anybody can benefit by practicing on video.
Now, it only takes two seconds to say practise your speech on video.
Instead, I told a story.
It only took a little more than a minute, but it had characters, it had dialogue, it had a setting.
It had a problem.
It had my feelings.
I was nervous about it.
It had a point.
It had a resolution.
So you might not consider yourself the world's greatest storyteller.
That's OK.
But I want you to pick one of your points, the most important point in your presentation.
And I want you to tell a story to make that point come alive.
Doesn't have to be as dramatic as being in a strange part of the world surrounded by machine guns.
It can you it can be you simply retelling a conversation.
You met with a real customer, a real client, a real prospect and a fellow employee about a real problem,
where you were, how you felt, how it was resolved and how that relates to an issue of importance to
your audience.
So I want you to think of a story.
You don't have to write it all out.
You can just write a few words.
Henderson, Client and Ashboro, whatever it is that's going to remind you of a conversation that you
can then give in the presentation.
It's the single biggest difference between great communicators and awful communicators.
Great communicators illustrate every single important point in their presentation with a story awful
communicators consistently go through the data, do a big data dump, no stories.
If you have a great story that's relevant to your audience, makes an important point.
They are going to think you are a far better speaker than one of your colleagues who's been writing
and rewriting and practice and rehearsing this speech for six months.
So here's your chance to really leapfrog above all the others and to do it quickly and easily.
So think of that story right now.

--- Your Story Will Make Your Presentation ---

Every PowerPoint presentation should really have two presentations, not just one.
What do I mean by that?
If you're giving a PowerPoint presentation, you really, in my opinion, need to have two separate,
distinct presentations.
There is the PowerPoint that you actually project could be on a small screen.
It could be on a 100 foot screen in front of people.
When you are standing speaking to them, that PowerPoint presentation should be devoid of words, text,
complexity, columns and complex graphs.
Instead, it should have images, pictures.
If there's a graph, it should show one relationship, two variables at most.
There is a second PowerPoint presentation that you also need, and that is something that you e-mailed
to people in advance or you hand out this PowerPoint can have lots and lots of text, lots of data complexity,
wildly complex graphs, because people can read it, they can print it out, they can twist it, turn
it, they can start to read it, get hungry, put it down.
You'll get a ham sandwich, come back and read it and study it again.
It's a different medium.
The text medium that you control is simply different from a live presentation where the audience can't
control the slides going.
But now Microsoft PowerPoint has a notes section where you can put notes in it.
Lots of data.
It shows up to anyone you e-mail the PowerPoint to.
It shows up on any computer screen.
But when you're projecting it, it doesn't show up.
So you can actually have two presentations in one file or you can have it as two completely different
ones.
If you try to have one PowerPoint that has multiple purposes, you are going to fail.
I understand that's how most people do it, but I'm here to tell you it is not effective.

--- PowerPoint Presentations Require 2 Separate PowerPoints Public Speaking ---

The next thing I want you to do quickly is to come up with a simple and I mean simple one page outline
for your presentation, and you're not going to need the whole page, but write it in big fun.
I just hand wrote this speech, you see number one.
Number two, number three.
And put the story, give you a couple of words underneath the one point that you're going to have a
story.
You need to have an outline.
Do not I beg you.
Beg you.
As I mentioned in the first lecture, don't try to write out the whole speech.
You'll be up till 4:00 in the morning.
You'll be so tired, you'll have bags under your eyes.
That's what people will notice, not the fact that you've memorized or reading a great speech.
So don't stay up late writing the speech instead have a very simple outline, three points and a few
words to remind you of your story, your one story to flesh out your main point.
And that's going to be the roadmap for your presentation and write it out big enough so you don't have
to hold it up.
You don't have to sort of stop and put your glasses on and fiddle with it.
Since it's only one page, you're not going to have to be turning pages.
It's going to be simple, clean, efficient.
And this way you're going to fool people into thinking you've been practicing, rehearsing for a long
time because you're just talking to them.
You're not reading paper notes and you're not reading a PowerPoint.
So please, one page, three bullet points, very large, ten words or less for each bullet point.
And underneath one of them, a few words to remind you of your story.
And that is going to be a road map.
That is going to be your security blanket for this speech coming up in just a few hours.

--- Creating a One-page Outline ---

When you were giving a PowerPoint presentation, it's critical that your focus stays on your audience,
the slides, whether they're behind you or in front of you, that's for your audience.
It's not for you.
You don't want to be.
These speakers is sort of turning around.
All you see is the back of the head and the creases in their jacket.
You have to focus on your audience if you're focusing on PowerPoint slides, especially if it's a bunch
of text.
I can tell you exactly what your audience is going to do.
Do do do do do jokes.
Check email, let's check sports scores.
Let's check stock price.
They are going to ignore you.
It's human nature.
If you ignore your audience, they will ignore you.
So you have to be focused on your audience.
You need to be giving eye contact at least 95 percent of the time on members of your audience.
If you don't do that, you will lose them.

--- PowerPoint Presenters Must Focus on Audience, Not Slides Public Speaking ---

OK, we're making progress, but now is the point you're not going to like nobody likes this part,
but I'm telling you all the advice I'm going to give you in this emergency class is the number one thing
that will really help you.
And that is you've got to practice just once, just once on video.
And what I mean by that is not going and hire a big TV production crew.
You don't even have to go to the bottom of your closet and dig out the the big handycam and hand-held
recorder and big tripod that you've taken on vacations.
Now, just pull out your cell phone, your smartphone or a tablet, or if you have to, your webcam
and record your speech, have your one page of notes, give your speech once and then watch it.
That's all I'm asking you to do.
Now, after you watch it, make notes of what you like and what you don't like.
This is far and away the most important part of this process.
Now, I knew I told you that this was going to be a 30 minute class.
Guess what?
You already know all the really important stuff.
So if you're really in a huge, huge bind, stop looking at the rest of the lectures and just go right
into this.
Have your notes in front of you.
Practice your speech.
And if it's a 10 minute, 15 minute speech, you practice it once you watch it, once you make notes
of what you like and don't like.
And if you want to make some adjustments on your outline, do it.
But don't be futzing around and don't lengthen it.
Don't start putting in whole paragraphs because then you'll be tempted to read it.
And that makes any speaker awful.
Do this one tip.
I'm not asking you to rehearse 50 times, 100 times.
I'm not asking you to email it to 50 people and get critiques.
Those are all good things to do in normal circumstances.
But you've got to give a speech tomorrow or in a few hours.
You don't have time just doing this one practice, watching it once.
It's going to help you tremendously because if you don't actually practice it in watching on video,
then when you're giving your speech in a few hours or tomorrow, it's coming out of your mouth.
The first time it's really going through your brain.
The first time it's the rough draft.
The rough drafts of most things are by definition, rough, not very good.
That's why we do second and third drafts of important memos, emails of position papers, but with speeches,
even people who've been working on their speech for months, quite often the first time they're saying
it is in front of the live crowd.
So things come out rough.
You can bypass those people who've been working on their speech for weeks.
If you do this one thing I know it's not pleasant if you're not used to looking at yourself on video.
Hey, I don't love everything about how I look on video.
I can look at a video and say, oh, gosh, am I getting a triple chin again?
Is more hair falling out?
But guess what if I don't look at that on video, anyone I speak to can still see that.
So me not looking at it on video doesn't help.
You aren't going to help anything by not looking at yourself.
Speak on video.
You're going to help a tremendous amount just by practicing.
One's watching it and then getting ready to go in, having seen yourself.
So you're a big binde.
Don't look at any more of the course right now.
Just do this.
Practice your speech, watch it and you'll be good to go.

--- Quickly Rehearse Your Presentation on Video ---

You are never truly prepared for a PowerPoint presentation unless you are prepared to give your presentation
without the PowerPoint bulbs burn out, computers malfunction, electricity goes away.
You still got to present your ideas.
And that's why it's critical for you to realize you're not actually giving a PowerPoint presentation
any more than I'm giving in electricity presentation right now.
I'm using electricity, I'm using lights.
But this isn't a light presentation.
So you've got to realize at some point accidents will happen.
I've seen it happen to Steve Jobs when he was alive.
I've seen it happen to Bill Gates when they're in the middle of a PowerPoint presentation and all of
a sudden the screen goes blank, something malfunctions.
You don't want to be one of these people who's really taken my presentation.
I'm really sorry.
You need to just continue talking.
And that's why I recommend having on a single sheet of paper the notes so you can cover everything you
want to say in that presentation.
Without the slides, you are never prepared.
You're never truly prepared to give a PowerPoint presentation unless you're ready to give it without
the PowerPoint, you have to simply be able to explain your ideas with words, examples, case studies
and stories.

--- PowerPoint Presentations, Prepare for Disasters Public Speaking ---

So I hope you're feeling a little more relaxed about that speech or presentation you have to give tomorrow
or later today.
It's not as big a problem as you think I'm about to conclude here, but I do want to mention there is
some bonus material here that you can look at, but do it later.
Do it after you get this speech.
I don't want to give you an excuse not to do the most important part of this whole lesson, which is
practice once on video, using a single sheet of paper with three bullet points.
So often it's easy.
It's easy to say.
Well, let me just read more.
Let me just gather more information.
Let me watch another training tutorial.
You've got the points right now.
Again, to summarize, brainstorm on your messages.
Come up at the top three.
Figure out what is it you actually want this audience to do.
Come up with a story that illustrates your most important point.
So if someone's only half listening, they can still remember what you're talking about and get your
point.
And finally practice on video and practice using your little cheat sheet and use that cheat sheet.
When you're giving your speech practice, watch it, make final adjustments to your notes and you are
ready to go.
Good luck with your presentation.
I'm sure you'll do fine.

--- You are Good to Go! ---

How can you test your PowerPoint presentation to see if it's effective or not?
It's actually very easy to test PowerPoint slides, to see which ones work and which ones don't, and
it's not about some general axiom like it must be seven points or no more than three.
That's not it.
It's about your audience.
Do they understand it?
Do they remember it?
So here's my advice.
You're giving a big PowerPoint presentation on Friday to 30 clients.
Find three colleagues from down the hall on Wednesday.
Give them your PowerPoint presentation.
When you're done.
Ask them every slide they remember.
If they don't remember one of your slides, take that slide, tear it up and throw it in the trash can.
You now have empirical evidence that that slide doesn't work against the goal of your slide is to make
your idea more understandable and more memorable.
If your audience can't remember it two seconds after you gave the speech, it obviously isn't effective.
Use this rule and I guarantee you it's going to eliminate your bad slides.
It's also going to eliminate slides with text in bullet points because people never remember those.

--- How to Test Your PowerPoint Slides for Effectiveness Public Speaking ---

So how do you use special effects and animation video for your PowerPoint presentations and should you
use them?
Now, you you're not going to like my answer here and think it's not particularly helpful, but here's
my advice focus first on actually having really good ideas for your speech and presentation, then focus
on having an interesting, compelling story for each one.
Then think of a visual way of making that idea come alive then and only then think about animation or
video.
Here's the problem.
As a practical matter, you could spend three days coming up with some little animation for your PowerPoint
presentation.
And next thing you know, hour after hour has been spent on this.
And what happens is that crowds out your own schedule to actually rehearse your speech and to rehearse
your presentation.
And the whole focus becomes on this little technology of, you know, a butterfly flying across the
page.
Here's the problem.
Your audience is sophisticated because most people in the world have spent thousands of hours watching
video, watching TV, watching special effects movies, watching Steven Spielberg and Jerry Bruckheimer
movies.
So it's highly unlikely that your special effects are going to allow them to say, wow, did you see
that?
That's tough competition.
So I don't want to compete in the arena of special effects.
I'd much rather compete in the arena of something interesting to say.
The other problem with video is it's very easy for it to malfunction and not to work properly.
So you've got to make sure that everything works.
You've got to practice, rehearse in the venue.
If you don't do that, you could end up with egg on your face.
My advice, unless it's really something of a visual nature that involves video, just stick to images.
You'll be much better off.

--- Animation, Video and Special Affects in PowerPoint Presentations ---

Fundraising for non-profits, for universities, for political campaigns, it's like anything else in
life, you can do it sort of sporadically and a haphazard, random way and get random results, or you
can go about it in a very methodical, step by step, rational process.
This course is going to teach you how some of the great fundraisers operate.
It's not about having a silver tongue.
It's not necessarily about dialing ten thousand times a day or working till 2:00 in the morning.
It's about a set process.
For every single time you ask people for money, it's about your mindset, how to formulate your message.
And then most important, once you've ascertained there's some interest there, a willingness to help
to give money, how do you take it from there in order to raise the most amount of money in the quickest
amount of time most effectively.
So that's why I urge you to go through these steps one at a time.
It's not going to do any good to just pick and choose videos to watch you go through this all the way.
It's very sequenced.
Do the homework and I guarantee you you will generate more money than if you just continue down the
path you've been on of randomly asking people for money or saying, can you help?
Please send a check.
The problems most people have, no matter how much time they put into fundraising, no matter how earnest
they are, they just don't pin people down specifically enough the right amount of money for the right
specific thing that's being purchased by a specific date.
So I'm going to show you all the steps you need to do that.
So get ready.

--- Devising a Plan for Asking for the Right Amount of Money the Right Way ---

If you're looking for a simple technique to get your audience to focus on you and you're giving a PowerPoint,
try this option, hit the letter B on your laptop during your PowerPoint presentation, it will black
out the screen hitting any key whatsoever brings it back to life.
Same screen you were on.
So if you've just finished going through a PowerPoint slide and now you're talking about something else
but you're not ready for the next slide, you can simply hit the letter B blacks out the screen.
People say nothing.
You don't have to stop, turn a computer on or off.
You can also hit the key w w we'll white out the screen.
I prefer black because it's less distracting.
If all of a sudden it's a bright white screen, it can still attract eye attention there.
But if you can hit the letter B and then any key whatsoever, the space bar, the return bar, any bar
whatsoever will bring it back.
This way your audience isn't distracted and you can get people to focus on one thing at a time.
If you're speaking, don't give them anything to look at.
If you want them to look at stuff on your screen, stop talking.

--- How to Black Out Your Screen During a PowerPoint Presentation Public Speaking ---

Before you pick up that phone to call someone to ask them for a donation, before you set that meeting
to meet face to face with someone, you've got to figure out what is your message?
Why is this particular organization you're trying to raise money for so valuable?
Why do you personally value it?
Why should anyone value it if you're trying to raise money for the United Way?
What specifically is better in your community because of the United Way, if you're raising money from
your university and you don't really enjoy your university and didn't think it was that great, why
are you raising money for it now?
Presumably you love your university or you wouldn't have volunteered to raise money for it.
You've got to figure it out of all the causes in the world and there are millions of them.
What's unique about this one?
What's special about this one?
What is the message that you have that's important to you that's going to resonate with the person you're
talking to now?
Obviously, if you're raising money for a particular health care charity and the person is directly
affected by that, someone in their family, you can talk about that.
So, for example, if someone called me trying to raise money for ALS, if they knew that, in fact,
my father had ALS, my grandfather died of ALS, if they know that and talk about it in a gentle way,
it's going to be very, very hard for me not to give them some money.
It's just pulling on the heartstrings a little too strong.
So before you get into that meeting or before you pick up that phone, you've got to have a general
message as to what this organization does well, that anyone would say, OK, that makes sense, that's
legitimate.
But then you have to figure out what messages do you have that are uniquely of interest to this person?
Everyone has certain issues, family members with needs, friends, children who have special needs.
And yes, some people give entirely based on being noble and what's good for humanity.
But a lot of people do like to mix their charitable giving with self-interest.
So if they're giving money to your Boy Scout organization and their son is going to be or their daughter
is going to be in scouting a couple of years from now, and you're helping with some sort of infrastructure
meeting facility that could be of use to them, that may make the difference.
So you've got to come up with messages about what's good in your organization, what's good for society,
how it's benefited you, and specifically how this is going to benefit the individual.
Now, if you're raising money for a political campaign, you've got to talk about the issues that person
cares about and how there is an alignment between the political figure, the candidate you're working
with and the person you're trying to raise money from.
So don't try to think of this off the top of your head.
You need to have a clear cut sense of what your message is before you pick up the phone, before you
meet with that person face to face.
So that's your homework.
I want you to think of a target donor and then think of a message, something you can say in about 30
seconds to that person.
Go ahead and write it down.
Something that you think reflects why you see this organization as valuable and why you think that person
would see it as valuable to.

--- Here is How You Create a Winning Fundraising Message ---

Key concept for you to remember the next time you give a PowerPoint presentation, here's the concept.
You aren't giving a PowerPoint presentation.
You're giving a SAM presentation, you're giving an Olivia presentation.
It's your presentation, you are the star of the show.
Now, I don't mean to suggest you have a big ego or you want to become the president of the United States.
But do you realize that people are still looking at you, they're making judgments about your intelligence,
your capabilities, your short term potential, long term potential?
Ultimately, it is your presentation.
You may or may not be using slides.
Here's why this is significant.
A lot of people are really good communicators over the phone, one on one, a sales meeting, sitting
down, talking to three people because they give good examples, case studies, stories.
They're interactive, they're engaging, they're gesturing.
But the second they have to give a so-called PowerPoint presentation, all that is thrown out the window
and they become boring data diaper's.
Don't let that happen.
Do you remember?
You are not giving a PowerPoint presentation.
You are giving your presentation that may or may not have slides that help the audience.

--- There is No Such Thing as a PowerPoint Presentation Public Speaking ---

Before we focus on how to get money out of this donor or this friend or this person that was on a list
someone gave you, we first have to start with you.
If you're going to be a great fundraiser, it comes from you.
It starts with you.
For starters, we've got to ask, why do you care about this?
What is your personal commitment to this?
And have you given money?
It's often very, very difficult to ask people for money if you personally haven't given.
Now, if you're a professional fundraiser for a large, large national organization, it's a little
bit different.
But if you are a volunteer for any local charity, political campaign or any other non-profit, it's
going to be a lot easier for you to ask for money if you've already given money.
And you can tell the person, hey, Bill, that's why I decided to write a check to.
That's because I wanted to give specific examples of how you get it's going to make it so much easier.
You're not going to feel like a hypocrite.
So ask yourself, what are the very reasons that attracted you to this organization in the first place?
Why did you want to donate to this organization in the first place?
You're donating your time by trying to raise money.
Presumably you've donated some money.
Now, don't feel embarrassed if you haven't donated a million dollars.
It's not necessarily about how much you've given.
For some people, donating one hundred dollars is a bigger sacrifice than others donating a million
dollars.
But if you've given money, don't be afraid to mention that to other prospective donors.
Tell them why this organization is so important to you, what it's meant to you personally, why you
think it's doing such a good job.
And for example, if you're giving to your university and you're trying to raise money for that, talk
about how this university changed your life.
If you're trying to raise money for a medical charity and you have a close loved one who, for example,
has died of breast cancer and this really touches you personally, talk about that, talk about why
it's so important if you still have spouses, mothers, grandmothers, children, granddaughters who
may be affected by this.
Talk about that because people do not give money just on the facts.
If you are just about the facts, we could just send emails with data points and bullet points and no
one would ever have to ask for money.
It's a combination about the substance, the facts, the emotion behind it, the story behind it and
the person asking and of course, your relationship with the person you're asking money from.
So for starters, really, right down the top three reasons why you're personally committed to this
organization, this charity, this campaign, you may be raising money for your own political campaign.
You need to have very clear cut reasons as to why you're donating so much of your time and at least
some of your money to your own political campaigns.
So write these reasons down and be ready to tell them when you do start calling and meeting face to
face with donors.

--- You are the Message ---

At some point, if you give enough PowerPoint presentations, someone is going to try to talk you into
using build's, that's when you have a screen and instead of a whole nother screen, a whole nother
slide.
Coming up, another piece is built on the existing page.
And the problem, unfortunately, is that people think, oh, this is great.
I don't have to remember anything or practice anything.
I'll just hit the button and the next line of text will come up and I can sort of boop, boop, boop,
boop, no friends.
This is an awful way of using PowerPoint.
If there's something important enough for you to add it to a screen with a build, then give it its
own entire slide, preferably without using text, preferably using an image, a picture, a graph.
Because what happens in a lot of situations, especially you need to get behind in time.
You're hurrying.
All of a sudden you're like one of those birds at the checkout counters at a gas station bobbing up
and down.
You're hitting enter so often to get that next thing it takes that next thing text.
It's distracting.
It's not interesting.
It's boring.
And you know what people can read at home, they didn't need to come here.
You speak for that.
So my advice do not use Bill's.
The only exception is if there's something truly visual.
You're showing architectural drawings and you want to show.
Here's what the ground floor looks like now.
Here's what the second floor will look like on top and how you can look at if it's truly something visual
and layers find it.
It's just a way for you to throw up a bunch of text and use the poor man's teleprompter.
Don't use build's.

--- PowerPoint Presentation Tip, Don't Use Builds Public Speaking ---

When you're conducting a fundraising call or visit, the first thing you have to do is talk to the person
either in person or over the phone and get a sense of whether now's a good time for them to help and
if they want to help.
If you've called up a friend who's asked you for money before and is helped you before and the first
thing out of their mouth is, oh my God, I just lost my job.
I don't know how I'm going to pay my mortgage.
Now is probably not a good time to ask them for money.
So chat with them.
Don't just in the first 10 seconds say, will you give me money?
You've got to build some rapport.
Ideally, you already know the person and you can talk about areas of commonality.
Next, talk about the particular organization.
Let the person know, hey, I'm really trying to help this organization, the hard fund, whatever it
is, build their resources so they can do X, Y and Z.
Be as specific as possible.
Can you help make your first question is simple.
It's not.
Write a check for a million dollars for me in the next five minutes.
That's too much pressure.
That's coming on too strong.
But after you've established that now is a good time to ask them for money and you get the sense that
they are interested in this, simply ask, can you help?
Then don't say anything.
If they say, wow, it's just really not a good time, you say, hey, I understand.
Thanks so much.
Don't go on and on.
Don't spend the next two hours talking to don't call them every single day.
If somebody tells you now's not a good time or they can't or they won't or they don't like the organization
or they have philosophical problems with the organization, or you're raising money for a campaign and
they're already raising money for the opponent.
OK, don't waste time.
Don't continue to throw your good time after something that's not going to reap any investment.
So that is your first step.
You've got to simply ask, can you help organize?
Now they know you're trying to raise money.
So if they say yes, I'm willing to help, they are implicitly saying, go ahead and ask me for money.
That's your first step.
Make a note of it right now.
Start an outline so that when you are talking to people on the phone or you are meeting face to face,
you know, that is the first step.
Ask people specifically, will you help us with this organization?

--- Will You Help? ---

So how do you make a speech powerful and persuasive?
Well, for starters, you're not going to be powerful or persuasive if people can't remember what you
say, the number one problem most speakers have is they're so deadly dull, nobody remembers anything
they said.
You obviously can't persuade somebody if they don't remember two seconds later what you're even talking
about.
So, for starters, make sure you've done your due diligence.
You've narrowed your speech down to a handful of key ideas.
You have examples, case studies and compelling stories for each one of your points.
Next, if you're trying to persuade 50 new customers or clients at a conference on Friday, try to find
three people who are at least close to the demographics of your clients or customers to come here.
You speak on Wednesday, give them your whole speech afterwards.
Ask them what do they want to do if they say, well, I now want to buy your product or I now want to
sign up for this program you're doing, you know, you were persuasive.
If they say good speech, T.J., it means you didn't give a good speech.
So try to test, if not the real audience test on the audience, a small focus group audience that's
similar to your real audience.
Do that and videotape yourself to make sure you see yourself coming across your best and you'll increase
the chances of giving a powerful and persuasive speech.

--- How to Make a Speech Powerful and Persuasive Public Speaking ---

Now comes the next step.
It's time to ask for money, specific money, because if all you do is say, hey, T.J., I'm trying
to raise money for this great charity, The United Way, we send some money and I say, sure, fine.
Happy to.
Thanks so much, T.J..
Got to go click if that's all you do.
Well, guess what?
Maybe I send you money, but maybe I wait two months and maybe I send you five dollars and you are expecting
fifty thousand dollars.
Well, whose problem is that is not my problem.
It's your problem because you left money on the table.
Presuming I can pay a lot more than five dollars.
You don't ever want to let someone off the hook with something.
So, General, is can you give can you donate?
Because if the person gives you even one penny, they kept their promise.
Now, I'm not stressing high pressure techniques.
I'm not suggesting you become a used car salesman and twist people's arms or try to manipulate them.
All I'm suggesting is that you are direct, straightforward and doing what you've done.
You've presumably already donated to this organization.
You're donating your time right now and you want them to do the same thing.
So here's the key to asking for money.
Money is abstract.
You say money and people don't visualize anything.
The organization needs money.
Well, the federal government needs money.
Everybody needs money.
That's not concrete enough.
You've got to make it specific.
So, for example, if you are running for the local school board and you've called a friend and you
know, this person has means, don't just say, hey, I'm running for school board, can you help?
Can you send a check?
Sure.
Click be very, very specific.
Say, Sally, I'm running for school board.
As you know, you and I both have a long standing commitment to education.
I wouldn't give them your whole message.
Try to connect with the person, say thank you very much for expressing your willingness to help my
campaign.
I specifically need one hundred and twenty seven yard signs by next Thursday.
I've got to have these yard signs and it's going to be exactly seven hundred and twenty seven dollars.
Can you help me with this amount now?
People can visualize yard signs.
They know if it's like in most communities, other school board candidates spend money on yard signs.
They know it doesn't fall from the sky.
It's not free.
Presumably you're running a serious campaign and this is a legitimate need.
You're not saying send me a bunch of money because I don't know.
We might want to go out to an expensive lunch, tell them exactly what the money is, going to give
them a specific amount.
People like to know what they're getting.
They'd like to know what they're paying for, even if it's not going into their pocket.
They like to know specifically how they are helping.
The more specific you are, the more they can visualize exactly where their money is going, the better
off you're going to be, the greater the chances are that they're going to say yes and commit to a very
specific dollar amount.
So there's nothing wrong with saying these yard signs are going to be seven hundred and twenty one dollars.
Can you send me a check for seven hundred and twenty one dollars?
Now, I do realize those of you working for, for example, a large university endowments, you're trying
to raise hundreds of millions of dollars.
You can't always quantify it that way.
But to the extent you can, it's going to make it easier to raise the money.
It's easier for the potential donor to see exactly where the money is going.
So that's your homework right now.
Think of something in the organization you're trying to raise money for.
Come up with a target amount from the donor you're going after and paint a specific picture.
You may be trying to raise money for your local school charity.
You might be in high school.
You're trying to raise ten dollars from someone or you might be trying to raise a major endowment and
you want an entire building and you want someone to donate three million dollars, figure out exactly
what it it is, but come up with a very specific price tag and be able to describe exactly what your
prospective donor is going to be paying for.

--- Raise More Money By Asking for a Highly Specific Amount ---

So how do you give a great introduction for someone else who's going to speak, for starters, you have
to realize that it's just an introduction, but it doesn't mean it's not an opportunity to make a horrible
impression, no impression or a great impression.
You might as well make a great impression.
It is still a presentation, a speech, make the most of it.
The worst thing you can do is just read off the person's biography in a straightforward way.
So-and-so graduated from the Milton Academy and 19, blah, blah, blah.
That's boring.
Anyone can do that.
And you're putting the audience to sleep.
You're doing yourself no favors.
You're doing no favors to the person speaking.
What you need to do is look at the person's biography.
Then think of all this stuff.
What's most interesting and relevant to the audience.
It's going to make them want to pay even more attention and going to make them think this is really
the person we have to listen to.
Now, if you have any personal stories, vignettes, anecdotes with the person, weave that in.
But be careful.
Realize the audience isn't there to hear you speak.
They are there to hear the speaker.
So you really need to do this ideally in less than a minute.
If it's an hour long speech, don't go more than two minutes.
And again, try to keep it under a minute.
Try to focus on just the ideas that are most credible and interesting to the audience that are going
to wet their appetite to hear from the speaker.
And don't read with your head down.
You still want to have good eye contact and you want to make people feel good about the person that
they just made a time investment in coming to say.

--- How to Introduce Another Speaker Public Speaking ---

So we're making progress.
The good news is you found a donor, you asked for a specific amount to pay for something very specific
and your donor said, yes, that's great, wonderful.
Let's celebrate.
Let's pop the cork on the champagne bottles.
Right, wrong.
You haven't collected yet because there's something very important we forgot to do.
We forgot to pin down exactly when that person is going to pay the money.
Because here's the thing.
If you call me and ask for five hundred bucks for the United Way and I say yes and it's for a good cause
and I'm a trustworthy person and I say yes to you and you hang up and that's at four o'clock in the
afternoon.
Well, what happens at eight o'clock this evening when my refrigerator goes out and tomorrow after I
consult with my spouse, I realize, wow, we got to buy a new refrigerator and it's going to cost about
five hundred bucks.
Well, how enthusiastic am I going to be to send you a check for five hundred bucks?
When now I have an unexpected need for five hundred bucks.
So what happens to a lot of people sometimes is they're think, well, I'm still going to be good on
my promise.
I didn't say when.
Let me just wait till next month.
Things are going to be easier on the pocketbook and I'll send that check to the United Way next month
for five hundred bucks.
That's human nature.
And if you didn't pin the person down on a particular time frame for sending the money, then you might
not ever see that money.
Remember, it's not how much money is committed to you, it's not how much it's pledged.
It's how much money is actually in your hands or in your bank account.
Please don't ever forget that.
So the second and I mean the second someone is committed to giving you a set contribution, that's when
you politely need to ask or tell them when you need it.
Say, thanks so much.
Today's Tuesday.
We really got to make that purchase for yard signs Thursday.
Can you pay by credit card now?
Can you send over a scan of your check, which is a very easy, simple way of paying these days?
If you're not doing that yet, someone can take a picture of their check and send it to you.
Can you wire transfer it over?
Can you FedEx the check now?
Obviously, it is your judgment if you're getting a check for twenty five dollars from someone you don't
want to waste another twenty five dollars on the FedEx charge.
But if they're talking about giving a sizable contribution, a thousand, five thousand or more spending
twenty twenty five bucks on overnight charges is well worth it.
Here's the key.
You have to ask this person for the money by a specific time.
It might be two months.
They may say it's going to have to be in January as I do my estate planning.
That will be the time and that could be ten months.
So that's OK.
Make careful records and just let the person OK, I'm making a note here and I will follow up with you
January 3rd, as we discussed, so we can figure out how to handle this.
You don't want to sound pushy.
And again, you're not doing this because you're greedy.
This isn't money going into your own pocket.
And I'm not giving you tips on how to raise money for your business, your startup.
This is fundraising for nonprofits, charities, schools and political campaigns.
So you're doing this because you're trying to help the organization with its mission so no one can accuse
you of doing anything unethical or slimy simply by wanting to know when the money will come in.
So that is your homework assignment.
Come up with this same donor.
You're approaching your prospective donor.
You've got the messaging down.
You know what you're going to ask them for what?
You want them to purchase the amount.
Now, what is the actual time frame?
And by the way, there's no better time frame for giving than today.
Right now, if you can take the credit card, if you can have them pay by PayPal, if you can have them
send the cheque today, then there's absolutely no risk.

--- How to get the Money NOW - Fundraising ---

So how do you make a great acceptance speech?
We've all seen great Academy Award acceptance speeches and we've all seen awful ones, the awful ones
are remarkably consistent.
The person stands up there, usually fumbles, has a long list of.
Now, I'd like to thank Brad Rembrandt and they're just listing things.
My accountant, my lawyer, my lawyer's accountant, my accountants, lawyer, my agent.
It's perfunctory.
It's not from the heart.
It's reading.
There's no emotion.
It's awful and it's boring.
Don't do that.
It doesn't matter.
If you never win an Academy Award, you might win an award for your local civic contributions to the
scouting organization.
There may be a time when you do get to give a brief speech accepting an award, make the most of it.
The people who do really well with this speak from the heart.
Now, they may have planned it.
They may have even memorized it, but they don't just give a long laundry list of names.
When they thank people, they look at them in the eyes.
Some movie stars will look at the director in the audience, thanked them directly, thanked fellow
cast members.
When Philip Seymour Hoffman won an Academy Award, he gave a compelling story about when he was young.
And it was just him and his mother.
She was the one there with him when it really counted and gave gripping emotional story about that.
Thanks, Mom.
It became emotional and it became sincere and genuine.
So if you're going to thank people, be specific and what you're thanking them for, don't give a long
laundry list.
And even if you're only speaking for 60 seconds, you can still put some humor in a story and some personality
into it.
Do that and it'll be a great acceptance speech.

--- How to Make an Acceptance Speech Public Speaking ---

OK, we've had a huge success, we found a donor, we came up with our message, we sat him or her down,
talked to them over the phone, we got them to agree to helping.
We gave them a specific amount.
There was buying.
They pledged to give us a specific amount by a specific date.
And you know what?
We've got the money.
That's great.
That's wonderful.
Can we quit now?
Now, now, now.
Sadly, way too many people quit right now.
You've only just begun.
If you stop right now and move on to the next person, you could be leaving millions of dollars on the
table, perhaps more.
Here's the thing.
Anyone who's given your organization money might also raise money for your organization.
Wouldn't it be a lot better if instead of you raising all the money, they were 20 or 30 or 50 people
raising money, doing exactly what you're doing?
So always, always ask anybody who's given the organization money if they wouldn't mind raising money.
Now, some people will say, nope, nope, nope, T.J., I hate it.
I'll send you the check.
Don't ask me to do any more.
I hate asking people for money.
I get wrapped up all the time.
I'm sick of it.
But I like your organization.
I'm giving you money.
But at least you asked.
But a certain percentage of people who donate money believe in the organization like you do to the point
of being willing to ask other people for money.
But guess what?
If you don't ask, they won't volunteer.
Most of the time you've got to ask people to raise money.
So that's your next step.
Think of this very same donor you've been working with is already said yes to giving you specific amounts
and has come through.
Now, think about asking that person to raise money because a certain percentage will do it within your
donors.
Maybe it's 90 percent, maybe it's only one out of a hundred.
But if you have thousands of small donors and an extra one percent are all out, duplicating your efforts
will cumulatively, that could be several hundred percent more money raised each year.
So do not let them off the hook again.
You're not doing this to enrich yourself.
You're not doing this out of your desperation.
You're doing this to help the organization and help the organization meet its goals and to accomplish
its objectives.
And it does require money for that.
So that's your next step.
Ask this person who's already donated money if they will help raise more money for the organization.

--- Will You Raise Funds? Fundraising ---

OK, so your donor has not only given you money, he has agreed to raise money.
Now you've got to ask them to raise a very specific amount because again, if they've given you a thousand
dollars and you ask them to raise money and they get one friend to send in five dollars, they've fulfilled
their promise to you.
You don't want to let them off the hook that easily, especially if this is a person who could raise
fifty thousand dollars.
You don't want to leave that much money on the table.
So here's what you've got to do.
Just like earlier.
You've got to paint a picture of a very, very specific need for this money.
So, again, if you're running for school board, you can tell the person, look, it's a big city we're
in.
I have to communicate with voters through television ads.
I'm going to have to pay for 50 TV ads to the TV stations and cable networks so that I can communicate
this message to the voters.
It's going to cost exactly seven thousand nine hundred and twenty seven dollars for these 50 spots to
run again and again and again.
Can you take the responsibility of raising this specific amount and you want to get it?
Yes.
Now they might say, oh, T.J., that's ridiculous.
I could never raise seven thousand nine hundred four.
That's a lot of the time.
The most I could possibly raises a couple of grand.
OK, thanks a lot.
You're two thousand dollars will pay for 20 of these TV commercials.
Do I have your commitment that you can raise two thousand dollars to pay for these 20 commercials?
Now you've got them something specific, but always start with a specific amount.
If they want to come down, that's fine.
But something beats nothing.
If you just tell them, hey, raise what you can whenever you can, you might get five dollars and it
might be in five years.

--- Will You Raise a Specific Amount? ---

So how do you speak in front of a really big crowd?
So if you've never spoken to more than 20 people before, 50 people all of a sudden seem like a really
big crowd, if you're used to speaking in front of 500 people, that may be for you.
The threshold is 5000 people.
But for most of us, there is some threshold of an audience size where we think, wow, this is different
and this is scary.
Well, let me share with you the secrets you really need to know.
For starters, it's not that you need to really do things that differently.
Speaking to a large audience from what you do when you're speaking to five or 10 people, the problem
is your body is going to get nervous and tense up.
So what happens is people change themselves when they get in front of a larger audience and they change
themselves for the worse, they get scared.
So instead of walking around gesturing naturally, they freeze up instead of being conversational,
giving examples, telling stories, they feel like they need to play it safe because they might forget
and they start reading a script or reading bullet points, which is the kiss of death.
So, so much of being a great speaker in front of a large audience is really doing exactly the same
thing you do when you're speaking to a small, comfortable audience and simply not changing yourself.
Part of it is just getting more comfortable by doing it more often, part of it by rehearsing in the
same venue.
If you've never spoken on a large elevated platform or stage, get to the place the day before or at
least several hours earlier when no one's there and practice on that stage.
And of course, you need to practice on video.
So you have an image of yourself coming across exactly the way you want.
There are a few minor technical differences.
When you're speaking to a really large group, you need longer pauses.
It takes time for your sound to filter around a large auditorium.
Walk a little more, create a little more variety if you're on a large stage, that can help, and if
you just make everything a little bit bigger, more energy, slightly bigger hand motions, everything's
sort of bigger.
But don't make the mistake of yelling because the problem a lot of people have is they see an audience
member who's now 300 yards away.
So they feel like they have to speak like this projecting and that's awful.
That can wear out your audience.
It seems like you're shouting, you're going to have a microphone or you better have a microphone if
you're speaking to a large audience.
So you want a conversational tone in your voice.
That's one of the telltale signs.
When you see people speaking at major national political conventions, they're not regular speakers
talking to 5000 people.
So they tend to shout by fellow Americans and it just makes them seem phony and staged and contrived.
So you want that full, normal conversational tone of your voice.
Do that and you'll be great.
Here's the other thing about speaking to large audiences, because it scares people so much.
If you do it and you do it competently, people are going to think you're a genius.
They're going to be like, oh my gosh, I could never do that.
And really, all you're doing is the same thing as when you talk to 20 people.
So if you have the opportunity, take it.

--- How to Speak in Front of a Big Crowd Public Speaking ---

OK, the money is rolling in, you're doing a number of things well, you've asked the donor for money.
He said yes.
She said yes for a specific amount by a specific time.
Check, check, check the money.
Come in.
You've asked that person to feel she'll raise money for you.
They've said yes.
You've told them what it's for.
They've said, yes, we've got to take it again to the next step.
They have to commit to raising the money by a set time because if they raise all the money but it comes
in ten years from now, that might not do you any good, especially if you have a political campaign
and it's three weeks until Election Day, it's not going to do you good.
So, again, you must clearly establish when the funds will be raised.
I'd much rather have 50 percent of a goal and it's here in our coffers three weeks from today, then
one hundred percent of our goals.
But it's two months after the campaign is ended or a year after the capital campaign ended.
So you must give a very specific timeframe, just like before, make a note and say, OK, I'm putting
down here on my calendar that we're going to receive the seven thousand nine hundred and twenty two
dollars, whatever the exact amount is that you will have raised from your own network by and then picking
a mutually agreed upon that you can't force someone, you can't twist their arm off to magically raise
you a lot of money from their whole network in a day, or to give a reasonable time frame based on what
the person thinks they can do and when the needs are.
If it's a five year capital campaign for a university, that's different than if it's six weeks out
from an election in political season.
So you always have to take that into account.
But just make sure there is a deadline that you know what it is, what the donor knows, what it is,
and that there is an agreement that everyone's on the same page.
Do that and you're going to raise a lot more money.

--- Will You Raise it by a Specific Date? ---

So how do you keep your audience's attention when you're giving a presentation?
Now, the problem many speakers have is they're not even focused on their audience.
They're focused on their little text, their PowerPoint.
They're doing a data dump.
They completely ignore their audience.
So the audience starts to ignore you, your relationship with your audiences in many ways similar to
your relationship with any other human being.
If you're rude to them, they're going to be rude back.
You ignore your audience, they are going to ignore you back.
So for starters, you have to actually look at individual members of your audience in the eye and you've
got to be interesting and engaging.
You can't just do a boring data dump periodically.
You need to ask rhetorical questions.
Sometimes you need to ask real questions, especially if it's not a huge, huge audience.
You need variety, the variety in your tone of voice, your volume, your speed, pausing.
Everything has to be a little bit different, constant variety, because that's what people do when
they're having real conversations.
If you are in a bar or restaurant with three good friends from high school, when you're talking about
some game you just saw, people don't say, well, let me tell you what happened in the first two minutes
of the game and then the second two minutes.
And that's not how people talk.
There's variety.
It pops in and out different levels of abstraction, asides.
That's what you need when you're giving a speech as well.
Now, it may, of course, be more structured than just a conversation with friends, but it can't be
the structure.
Here's a fact.
Here's a fact on my next page.
Here's a fact.
That's what happens to so many business presentations is they are just straight forward data dumps.
If you do that, it's virtually impossible to keep your audience engaged.
Now, you need to be mindful of a lot of things with your audience.
If the room is really way too cold, you need to stop and have someone adjust the thermometer.
If it's way too hot, you got to open a window.
If the last speaker went on for three hours and people have not been allowed to get up to go to the
bathroom, you need to be aware of that.
And if people are all of a sudden a bunch of them are on their phone, I wouldn't be rude to them and
snatch it out of their hands.
But you do need to be aware of it.
Sometimes walking closer to them will get them to put it away.
Sometimes referencing something that you had in a conversation with one of them will get them to put
it away.
But if you allow audience members to drift even one or two, the next thing you know, the whole audience
could drift away.
So great speakers are keenly aware of what their audience is focusing on at all times.

--- How to Keep Your Audience's Attention Public Speaking ---

So great, we are doing exactly what we're supposed to be doing, we are fundraising, we've raised
money from this donor.
This donor didn't just give us any little amount.
We got the most we think we could have gotten from that donor.
And then we got the donor to raise money and the donor has done both.
The donor of this particular donor's done everything we've asked.
They've given us money and they've raised money.
Now, you might think that's the time to say, well, thanks very much.
Shake their hand, give a thank you note and call again in a year or two from now.
I'm not saying you have to badger people and call them twenty four hours a day and call them every day
a week.
No, but if someone is given money, someone is raised money and your organization still has needs.
If your university still has buildings to build, if the disease you're working with is not been cured,
you still have needs.
Don't feel as though you have to wait a year or two years before asking for money again, start the
whole process over again.
The worst thing that can happen is the person says no.
And in fact, you've not done your job until that person says no.
So we have to continue this process, ask them for more money.
Again, not generic money, not a generic amount, but a specific amount of money for a specific need,
something they can purchase a service, a product that is needed for the mission of your organization.
Do the whole process again and again and again.
The greatest fundraisers in the world are kind of like Tom Sawyer.
If you remember, he got all of his friends to paint his fence.
He wasn't painting faster and harder than anyone else, but he convinced his other friends it was this
activity that was this fun.
It was this privilege of being part of it.
That's what you need to do.
If you want to be a great fundraiser, you have to constantly recruit more and more people in to your
mission and have them raising money on an ongoing basis.
So you know the system now, it's a step by step process.
So that's what I want you to think about now, is how to ask this person for another specific amount
of money, this specific time for a specific thing.

--- Why You Should Never Memorize a Speech Public Speaking ---

How do you get truly confident in how you're presenting yourself, asking for money?
There's one sure solution, and that is to practice on video before you call the first donor, before
you go see that first person face to face.
I want you to practice, but not just talking to Amir.
Here's what happens if you practice to me or you start looking at the mirror, you think, wow, it's
my hair falling out even more.
Am I getting more of a double chin?
That's not the way to do it.
Don't look in a mirror.
Instead, practice on video these days.
Just pull out a cell phone, talk to your own cell phone, talk to a webcam and watch yourself afterwards.
Figure out what do you like, what do you not like?
Now, ideally, you could practice on another human being, have a friend, a family member.
Their part isn't that important, is just someone to talk to and they can hold your cell phone or a
video camera in front of you to monitor how you're doing.
Here's what you want to look for when you're asking someone for money.
You do not want to have doubt in your voice.
You don't want to make it sound like I think we could use this money.
Or maybe it's a good idea if you donate it now.
Now, you don't want to be pushy or obnoxious or arrogant, but you want to speak with authority and
conviction.
If there's the slightest little bit of doubt in your voice that this is a worthwhile cause or that the
money will be spent in the right place, you're finished.
You're not going to raise any money.
Now, if you're a little bit nervous, that's OK.
That's understandable.
It is unpleasant to ask people for money, but you can't act like you're nervous because you're uncertain
of the worthiness or the goals for yourself.
Remember, you're not asking for a handout for yourself.
You're not telling somebody, I'm starving, I'm hungry.
I need you're doing this to help other people.
You're doing this to help other hungry people or other charities or political causes that you believe
in, to make the world a better place.
So in some sense, that makes it much easier than trying to raise money for yourself or for your own
business venture.
You're trying to do this to help other people, to help society.
So you need to practice and you need to practice on video and you've got to watch it.
And here's what I recommend.
Get a pad, get a pen and watch that video and write down everything you like about how you're coming
across and everything you don't like.
Judge every aspect of style and substance, because if you see yourself fidgeting with your ring the
entire time and you look nervous, that could work against you.
You don't want the person you're asking money from to think, why is this person nervous?
Are they upset about something?
They seem fidgety.
Are they going to steal the money and go use it on drugs?
You don't want them thinking about any of those things.
You want them focused on you and perceiving you as highly credible and highly confident.
Now, if you're all nervous about asking people for money, the video practice is the perfect thing,
because if you keep practicing and you keep watching your video, at some point you'll get to the point
where you like it.
You think, wow, this person is coming across confident, relaxed, comfortable.
If I can do as well as this person, I'll be fine.
If you practice to the point on video where you like what you see, guess what?
It actually becomes impossible to get nervous when you're in front of a real person asking for money,
because what makes you nervous is not knowing how you come across is not knowing what you're doing with
your hands or your tongue in your mouth or anything like that.
What makes us nervous is fear of the unknown.
Thanks to the power of video, nothing has to be unknown.
You can know exactly how you're coming across.
You'll know if you're speaking too quickly or too softly or too high pitch.
You'll know all of that and you'll be able to adjust before you go to that face to face meeting or before
you pick up the phone and call.
So I beg you, this is a critically important step in the whole process.
If you want to be a great fundraiser and you really want to go into every single pitch with ultimate
confidence, you need to rehearse on video and it doesn't take long.
You can simply pull out your cell phone, talk to it for a minute, listen to it for a minute.
Total amount of time, two minutes.
You have two minutes to refine your pitch and to really hone it and get it.
Great.
So please.
That's your homework right now, practice your pitch recorded on video.
Write down what you like.
Write down what you don't like.
Do it again and again and again until they don't like us have disappeared.
And what you like is now along this.
Do that and you will be supremely confident before every fundraising pitch.

--- Video Rehearsal ---

So we're about to conclude this course here on fundraising, how you can ask people for money, for
your non-profits, for your political campaigns, for your universities and institutes.
I do want you to recognize you are a special person at some level because most people would rather do
anything than ask for money.
It's something people like to delegate to others.
The fact that you're this far and you're willing to actually raise money says something about your character
that you're willing to take the tough jobs that nobody else wants.
But ultimately, if you don't do it, no one else will.
And the organization will flounder.
Finance is what makes organizations pay their electricity bills and make everything else run on time.
So it's an incredibly important task if any organization is going to sustain itself.
Now, as you do more and more fundraising, you'll get better and better at it.
You'll know more about the particular personalities involved and you'll build real relationships with
your donors.
Now, you know your donors.
I don't know your donors.
I have tried to give you concepts that as you're starting out fundraising and even if you've been doing
it for a while, that all things being equal will help you go about this in a more systematic process
and raise more money and get more people involved.
But it's like anything else in life.
The more you're doing it, the more you'll learn the particulars of your organization, your industry,
your sector, the people who care about your organizations.
Ultimately, it's about those people, their wants and how you connect with them.
As long as you ask them in a focused way, in a specific way, at times, specific amount, specific
way, you will raise money.
Good luck with your ventures.
If I can ever help, please.
Right here or call.
Thanks so much.

--- How to Prepare and Use Notes in a Speech Public Speaking ---

So what's the biggest difference between great speakers, truly fabulous communicators versus average
and mediocre speakers?
The difference is not the eye contact or the gestures or even the humor, the biggest difference is
that great speakers consistently illustrate every single key point with a story, not necessarily a
funny story or dramatic story, but they do it with a story.
Human beings are programmed to listen, understand, visualize stories.
Before there was text, before there is chipping away at stones and cables.
People told stories it's still the most compelling way to get people to a pay attention, be, understand
and see.
Remember now average speakers below average speakers.
Oh yeah.
Yeah, T.J., you know, I love stories that are great with motivational speakers, but, you know,
when I'm a tech guy, I can't do that.
I'm a finance got boloney.
It doesn't matter what industry you're in, it doesn't matter your position.
Great communicators consistently tell stories.
Warren Buffett does it.
Steve Jobs did it.
Ronald Reagan did it.
Bill Clinton does it.
So if you want to be a truly great communicator, you have to tell stories now.
You don't have to tell award winning stories that are going to get turned into movies.
All you have to do is have a few simple elements.
I'm going to walk you through these elements in the next videos on this playlist, so pay close attention.
But the first thing you've got to do is get over this emotional hurdle where a lot of people tell themselves,
oh, I can't tell stories.
I don't know any stories.
Well, if you've ever had a single conversation with one person about a real problem and how it was
resolved, you have a story.
That's all it is.
People ask me all the time, T.J., can I make up stories?
You could, but that's really hard.
I don't want you to work harder.
I want you to think smarter.
The best stories for your presentations come from your own real life experiences, conversations you've
had with clients, customers, colleagues.
That's where you should draw upon for your story database.
Not from a book, not from a movie, not from you having a creative writing inspiration.
You need to draw upon your own real life experiences.
I'm going to tell you more details of how to tell stories in the following videos in this sequence.

--- Conclusion to Fundraising Presentations ---

When you're telling a story to the audience, you're not telling a story just to be a storyteller,
you're doing it because there's a message there.
Ultimately, as speakers, presenters, communicators, we're there to communicate messages.
So the story isn't driving this.
Your message is a story is simply a vehicle for making the message come alive to make it more memorable.
So realized that it's message first.
In an ideal world, maybe we wouldn't have to tell stories.
We could just lay out all the facts.
But people don't remember just the facts.
They remember the stories and therefore they often remember the message behind the story.
But remember, when you're telling a story, it's the message first.
That's what is driving this engine, not the desire for you to become a big storyteller.

--- Stories Are the Most Important Part of Great Speeches Public Speaking ---

If you really want to master the skills we're talking about today, if you truly want to be a world
class communicator, then you're going to have to get feedback, ask your friends, family members,
colleagues, other executives to rate how you're dealing with every aspect of your presentation.
Now, I'm a big believer in this, and I don't just talk about it.
I practice it, too.
So I want your feedback.
So what I would ask is, now that we're almost done with this course, take just a moment and go to
the feedback portion of this course and write a review.
Now, I certainly hope you'll give me a five star review, but I want you to be honest.
Tell me what was valuable in this course and write it out and tell me where it can improve.
Now, I think I'm good, but one of the reasons I think I'm good is that I have always listened throughout
my career to people who didn't like something about how I communicated.
And I listen to it and I try to make adjustments to improve it.
Tiny little improvements every time I speak.
So I'm asking as a favor to me and for future students so we can continue to make this course get better
and better.
Take just a moment to write a review in the official feedback section of this course.

--- Message Drives Stories Public Speaking ---

When you're telling a story, it's crucially important for you to describe the setting now, the setting
could be as mundane as I'm on the second floor of my office in Huntington, New York, and it's a cloudy
day.
There's nothing particularly interesting about that.
But when I said that you have a certain image come to mind, you perhaps have never been to Huntington,
New York, at an office building that I haven't been to hunting in an office building.
But the point is, it creates a picture for you.
The human memory is much more of a visual processor than than a word processor where image processors,
not word processors.
So when you take the time to physically describe a setting, whether you're in a desert island with
a typhoon coming on or just sitting in your house at seven a.m. on a Saturday morning in your favorite
easy chair, paint the picture with words of the setting.
Now, it's not that important that people remember all that, but what it does is it starts to get your
audience to run a little movie camera and their brain and their visualizing what you're saying.
That's the beauty of describing the setting when you're telling a story.

--- You Will Raise Money If You Explain Why You Are So Excited ---

When you're telling a story in a presentation or speech, you have to introduce characters and describe
what the problem is, what's the conflict now?
Unless you sit in your office all day long and the phone doesn't ring once and you just get one email
at the end of the day with your boss, say, hope you had a good day.
See you tomorrow.
All of us experience conflicts from time to time.
We all have problems.
So when you're telling a story, all you're doing is recounting the problem.
Now, don't say it's with a customer.
That's an abstraction.
Don't say it's with the Smith Company.
Say it's with Jim Smithers, the vice president of sales at the Smith Company.
Explain exactly who the problem is and explain what the problem is.
He's he's saying, T.J., we got a big problem.
This delivery isn't here.
We've already prepaid.
We demand a refund.
That's describing the problem in detail with the characters.
So don't be abstract.
Don't say they don't say customers paint a picture with someone specific, a real person.
Now, you can change the name if you need to or change the last name.
I'm not asking you to violate anyone's confidentiality if it's a client, but you need to paint a picture
with a real person and describe what the real problem or conflict is in your story.

--- What is the setting for Your Story Public Speaking ---

All of the books on how to give a financial presentation say pretty much the same thing, and yet people
routinely disregard these pointers.
When you're giving a financial pitch, whether it's for two minutes, 20 minutes, or if you're told
you have an hour, you still have to quickly tell people exactly what it is you do.
Tell them precisely how you are going to make money.
Let them know what problem you're solving.
What is the market place for this product you've created, this service you've created?
And why do you care about this?
Why are you devoting so much of your life to this project?
Why do you really care about it?
And who else have you brought on to be a part of this team?
Finally, what are you going to do with the money?
A bunch of big parties.
These are basic, fundamental questions that you need to answer in your presentation.
And, hey, you didn't need to come into this course to find that out.
But I routinely see entrepreneurs violating this.
Instead, they want to dive right in to explain all the nuts and bolts of this process of how they've
created this nifty thingamajig.
They want to go into all the details of this product.
And yet over on the sideline, I see it all the time because I've been a judge of investor presentations
and I've dealt with many, many investors and it's always the same thing.
They're kind of on the side scratching their heads.
I don't know what in the hell this person does to make money for their business.
I don't really know what this business is.
So the first thing you've got to do very quickly when you're giving a presentation is you've got to
explain in simple terms and focus terms what is your business?
How do you even if you're not making money for the next three years, how would you make money if the
investor listening to you doesn't understand that they're not going to care about all the design elements
of the product?
They're not going to care if you have 10 or 20 or 50 patents.
Patents don't mean anything.
If they don't understand what your business is and why people would ever pay money for your product
or your service, or why you would attract so many billions of eyeballs that your product could then
be monetized through advertising or being sold to someone else, people have to understand that.
So sometimes the challenge for entrepreneurs is stepping back for a minute.
You're too close to this because you've been working on it every day for weeks, months, sometimes
years.
And you've got to really step back and look at it with a fresh set of eyes.
So that's what you got to do right now.
This is your homework.
I want you to answer these questions.
What is your business?
How do you or will you make money?
What problem are you solving?
What is the market place for your business?
Why do you really care about this if it's just, oh, this is the Groupon of library books and I want
to latch on to some trend.
People are sick of that.
They're tired of that.
Who else is on your team?
Who else is so excited about this that they've become already initial excited customers and partners?
Think of those questions.
Write your answers down right now.

--- What Characters and Conflicts are in Your Story Public Speaking ---

When you're telling a story, it's crucial that you relive actual conversations with real people, that
you share the dialogue.
The problem most people have is they become this boring.
NARRATOR Looking down and the customer explained to me he was dissatisfied with our level of service.
See how boring that sounds, how sort of clinical it sounds.
It's much more effective to say, well, Jane, Smadar said, T.J., I can't believe you haven't delivered
the product yet.
I'm going to demand a refund.
And I said, well, calm down, Jane.
That's dialogue.
When you're actually reliving a real conversation with a real person, what they said to you and what
you said back, we all do this all the time, talking to friends, family, one on one.
A client calls us on the phone at the office.
We all tell stories using dialogue.
The problem is when we're getting up to give a so-called formal speech, we tend to strip the dialogue
out of everything and we boil it down to its bland, boring essence.
Don't do it.
The dialogue is what makes it interesting.
Captivating gives us your audience a sense of being there, the flavor of it, and that's why it's crucial.
So you must have dialogue when telling your story.
And no, you don't have to make it up.
Just relive actual conversations you had.

--- What, Exactly, Does Your Business Do? ---

Let's quickly just go over some basic blunders that you have to avoid at all cost.
I've seen this time and time again at investor pitches, someone is so excited about their project,
they want to tell you everything about their business that they speak so quickly.
It's like a high school debate.
You don't understand anything.
If you're an investor.
Don't try to cram too much material in next big reading.
Nobody likes to be read to you.
Do not like it when someone reads to you, because if someone reads to you, the implication is you're
too stupid to read.
And if you wanted to read, you can read a lot faster silently than someone talking to you.
So don't read.
Next, we'll talk about PowerPoint and a future lecture, but don't have an awful PowerPoint.
That's just a lot of text and bullet points, especially stuff that you can't read because it's too
small.
Also, don't make the classic classic blunder of saying this market is so big.
It's a three hundred and fifty million billion dollar market of people who want to lose weight.
So I can gain just one percent of that.
We're all going to be rich, are going to make three hundred and fifty million dollars a day.
Bover, investors hate that because you know what's close to one percent, zero percent.
They'd much rather hear you have a plan to get 100 percent of some new market or of a smaller market.
So don't get up there and just say you're going to get one percent of some huge market.
That's awful.
And don't be abstract.
The number one problem in any presentation, not just an investor pitch, is abstraction.
If you say you have a help, an app to help people socially, don't leave it at that.
If you've created an app so that people can somehow find the perfect mate who is on their street, show
the app, show the street you're on and show how there's someone in this room who is a perfect match
for the investor sitting next to you.
Be really specific.
Do not be abstract.
Abstraction is your enemy any time you're presenting specifically when you are giving a financial pitch
presentation, because keep in mind, whether you're an angel investor, whether you're a venture capitalist,
whether it's a rich uncle, people's default mode of thinking is this investment really isn't good and
this person really wants to take my money may be well meaning, but they're going to lose the money.
You've got to get them over that.
So you can't make the most basic blunders that other entrepreneurs make is most entrepreneurs who pitch,
don't make money or don't receive investment.
You have to be better than most.
So don't make the common blunders.
Don't read.
Don't do a data dump.
Don't be too abstract.
Don't talk about huge markets that you can get.
One percent of investors don't like it.

--- Your Speaking Stories Must Contain Dialogue Public Speaking ---

When telling a story, you must have a resolution.
How did things end up?
What's the point of it?
Again, you may have made the point at the beginning of the story.
Now you've told it.
How did things end up in such a way that fleshes out your keyboard?
Don't leave people hanging.
Don't let them wondering.
You're guessing what happens.
Because if they're wondering about you off in the jungle here, now, you're on to some new point of
finance.
They're not with you.
So tie your story together and make sure people understand there was a beginning, there was a middle
and there's an ending.
Here's how it ended and why we should care now.

--- Here is How You Avoid Common Blunders That Destroy Most Pitches ---

The deck, the PowerPoint deck, the keynote deck, let's face it, an entrepreneurial community, especially
in the high tech world, you have to have a deck to really present your new idea, your business opportunity.
But let's make one thing very clear.
Your pitch, your presentation is not the deck.
It is you people do not give million dollar checks or even five thousand dollar checks to a deck.
They give it to a real life human being or a team of human beings.
So, yes, you have to have a deck.
Your deck is not going to make a penny for you.
It's not going to raise a single dollar.
You are going to do that.
So by all means, have a deck, but you are the one who has to breathe life into this business.
You're the one who has to excite people and show your passion.
A deck is not going to do that.
Now, how should you structure your deck?
There are a lot of different schools of thought on decks.
What goes in them, what shouldn't go in them.
Guy Kawasaki, very famous in entrepreneurial circles, has his famous 10, 20, 30 rule.
He believes you should never have more than 10 slides.
You should never speak for more than 20 minutes.
Even if a venture capitalist has given you an hour on the calendar, use the other 40 minutes for conversation
and Q&amp;A.
The 30 stands for thirty point font.
That means means make the font large.
Because I can tell you right now, most rich people with money to invest, they look more like me than
probably you.
They have gray hair or no hair.
And one of those of us over 50 need to read.
Well, I'm not going to want to strain 20, 30 feet away looking at a slide deck projection to read.
So you're giving me an opportunity to just tune out.
If you've got really big letters and really just a few words per slide, you increase the odds that
the person in the audience will read it and understand it.
Now, you can also give the deck in advance.
You can also leave it behind.
But do not I beg of you, do not try to explain every single thing about your business, every nuance
of the product, every element of the engineering.
No one is going to give you money for that.
It's just an opportunity to throw it in the trash can or had the eyes glaze over if you are trying to
present it.
I'm a big believer in the power of visuals, not because I like pretty pictures, but because I've tested
audiences all over the world.
By and large, they do not remember text, they do remember pictures.
So if you have some new drug and it's going to help affluent people over 80 with Alzheimer's, don't
just put a bullet point of text saying Alzheimer's now affects all sorts of affluent people in the US,
including politically well connected.
Have a picture of Ronald Reagan.
He had Alzheimer's.
People will remember the picture much more than the text.
So use pictures for that.
Also realize that the second you stand up, you need to be speaking to your audience.
The PowerPoint is for your audience.
It's not for you.
The PowerPoint is not your poor man's teleprompter.
It's not the poor woman's teleprompter.
It's simply a way of reinforcing some key concepts for your audience.
So don't make the mistake of using it as a crutch.
For goodness sake, don't you heard me say it before.
I'll say it again.
Do not read your PowerPoint.
People will hate you and they will think you're a fool.
I mean, if you're an expert on this business, you should be so passionate about it that the PowerPoint
fell over.
If the bulb burned out, if someone kicked over your laptop, you couldn't care less.
You're happy to just talk to people about this fantastic business opportunity, so never lose sight
of that.
The PowerPoint is not the presentation.
You are the presentation.
The PowerPoint is not running the show.
You're not the assistant of the slide deck.
It's your show.
It's your presentation.
The slides are simply an enhancement.
Focus on that and your slides will help you.
And they certainly won't hurt you the way they do for many entrepreneurs.
So that's your homework assignment right now.
I want you to come up with a slide deck and let's limit it to ten slides.
I would like you to have a picture, an image of something.
On each slide you have to use to do it, but make sure the font is large, at least 30 point, do it
now.

--- Your Story Must have a Resolution Public Speaking ---

When you are telling a story in your presentation is critical that you share your emotional state.
How did you feel?
How did the person you're talking to feel?
Were you frustrated?
Were you angry?
Were you elated?
What was the emotional component?
Describe that.
Now, part of it needs to come out in your tone of voice, your facial expressions.
But don't be afraid to tell people I was scared and let people get a sense of exactly what you were
feeling.
Human beings are emotional creatures, like it or not.
And in my survey of clients all over the world, the thing they do remember the most from the best speakers,
the stories and the emotion, you put the two together and it is quite powerful.
So that's why it's a problem when people say, oh, I need to be professional now I'm giving this professional
speech.
And there's a point.
Here's a point.
Well, if one of your points is profits are down 17 percent, don't just quickly go from there to the
next point.
If you have to tell a story about a client who's very upset about your new product change, exactly
why they're upset, exactly why they're not going to be a client anymore, share that story because
that may be helpful to your board of directors and figuring out maybe we should bring that that service
or that product back again because our clients are missing it more than we thought.
You must describe the emotional component.
Otherwise, your speech is going to be too consistent.
It's going to be too bland.
It's too boring.
Now, I'm not suggesting you yell and scream the whole time in your presentation or in your story,
but you do need to describe the high moments and the low moments in your story to make it more interesting
and more memorable.

--- Using The PowerPoint Deck to Sell, Not Put Investors to Sleep ---

There are three things that you can put in your presentation that will impress investors more than anything
else, good prototype evidence of a strong, devoted customer or fan base.
The third thing, actual paying customers, if you can talk about those three things in a compelling
way, doesn't matter if you're short, ugly, weird, nasally voice, none of that stuff will matter.
Investors are going to be clamoring to you to invest.
If you can't talk about those three things, it's going to be very, very hard.
You can look great, have a perfect PowerPoint, have great eye contact, have a commanding voice,
and very unlikely you're going to raise money.
Let's talk about these one at a time.
The prototype these days with almost anything in the technology space.
Not talking about biotech, of course, but for anything that is Web based, Internet based, the cost
of doing business has fallen so dramatically.
You don't have to hire tons of people.
You don't have to have huge headquarters.
People can work virtually.
You don't have to buy huge server farms.
You can use the cloud.
There's so many tools that can be gotten for free or for very little.
You should be able to make a prototype.
The days are gone where you can just come up with an idea on a napkin or a piece of paper, a few slides
and people throw money at you.
They expect you to do your due diligence.
And these days that includes creating a prototype.
So no matter what it is, an Internet product, some piece of technology, a new broom, whatever it
is, create the product.
I don't care how great the slide is, you can spend a million dollars, not that you would on fancy
art for your PowerPoint.
It'll never be as good as an actual prototype if it's an app that you can show on your phone and how
it works.
If it is a new broom, something you can hold up or sweep the room, you need to be able to show a prototype
of what you're doing when people can visualize it and actually see it not having to use their visual
capacity, it makes it really easy for the investor.
It simplifies it.
They don't have to stop and try to visualize it in their mind's eye.
Their actual eye can see it doesn't have to be a perfect prototype.
My goodness.
Apple introduces products all the time that are not perfect, and yet they're the most profitable corporation
in the world.
So it doesn't have to be perfect, but it needs to be something that people can see.
They can taste it, if not literally, then figuratively.
And that is going to be so powerful in your presentation.
And it's going to help you stand out from the others who just have slides.
The next thing that's important to have is some form of rabid fan base.
Now, you may recall Facebook didn't just start off saying, well, gosh, there's a billion people
in the world who have Internet connections.
So if we can just get one percent of them to use, our social network will be.
That's not how they started.
They focused just on students at Harvard and they dominated that market and then they expanded Ivy League
schools and then other colleges and then the that's how it expanded.
So you need to figure out what your base is and show some kind of a user who's excited they might not
be paying money.
Facebook users don't pay money by and large, but show that you have a committed fan base, have a testimonial
these days.
I think you don't see it that often, but I think it's very effective.
Just capture on your cell phone twenty seconds of video from a rabid fan of your product.
And I would show that video.
I would embed it right in your PowerPoint presentation, make sure that you have speakers attached and
get there early enough to practice it.
But a testimonial from a really enthusiastic fan, it's very powerful to investors.
That's what they want because they know if you have one, you may have more.
If you can attract more and more, a business will follow.
Sometimes people start businesses, whether it's Twitter, Instagram, and they're not even sure where
it's going to make money, but it's just so well-designed.
It's meeting a need that it just explodes a user base and ultimately that's a value to someone.
Now, the third thing I mentioned that is just wildly attractive to investors is money.
Now, go figure.
Investors are doing this because they want to make money.
So if they see that you already have revenue, they're practically salivating.
Now, this doesn't apply all the time.
Certainly if you have something so huge like Twitter and you don't have any revenue, you can still
be valued at billions of dollars if it just has such rapid, rapid growth.
But for many other businesses, especially if it's not in the technology realm, having actual committed
customers, clients who pay money that's powerful do not bury that.
Too many entrepreneurs spend all their time talking about the design of the product.
The software design elements of investors don't care about that.
By and large, they want to see that you've got a product, that there's a need, there's a market.
And if you already have clients, customers paying you money, that shows real proof of concept.
So don't bury that again.
You don't see this very often.
I would recommend pull that cell phone out capture video.
Could be 10 seconds of a customer talking about why they like your product, why they either advertise,
pay money for advertising on your site or hire your service or pay good money for your software, whatever
it is, if you have a paying customer, you're light years ahead of.
Most entrepreneurs who only have concepts are only a PowerPoint slides.
Let's face it, anybody can put together PowerPoint slides.
Any business, any middle school student can put together a bunch of slides.
Not that many people get to that next hurdle of having a paying customer.
So you have paying customers, even if it's small, even if it's only a few thousand dollars at some
level, it shows a proof of concept.
So put that into the presentation ideally with a short video clip.
But talk about who your customers are using their own words.
Do that and your pitch for venture capital for angel investors will be much, much more powerful.
So that's your homework.
Now, really sit down and think, do I have a prototype?
If so, get it ready.
Do I have any committed enthusiast for my product?
Any regular users?
Find out who they are, get, if nothing else, a testimonial blurb from them in text, but ideally
video.
Finally, who are your paying customers?
Get that together right now.

--- Share Your Emotions When telling Your Stories Public Speaking ---

The whole key to telling stories effectively when you're giving a speech or presentation is that you're
not actually telling stories, you're simply reliving an actual experience you had.
You're reliving a conversation you had.
You can see it if a client or customer was angry with you, you're envisioning them yelling at you or
yelling at you over the phone.
You're not making up dialogue.
You're simply recounting an actual conversation.
Here's the real secret.
A lot of people don't understand about great speakers.
Great speakers are often lazy.
They're not out writing and rewriting and rewriting interesting stories till 2:00 in the morning.
They're simply reliving actual experiences they had and using them.
When there is a story where there's a message there that's relevant, get message is what drives everything.
The stories are the ways of amplifying the message and getting people to remember it.
So don't try to create or think of new stories from scratch.
Simply relive, recount real experiences you have.
That's what will be powerful for your audience.

--- Show Your Creation Now ---

What's that extra something you really need to put you over the top in your presentation, it's passion.
You have to show passion and you have to give investors a legitimate, honest, real reason for why
you're passionate about this business, because it can't just be about making money.
It's too easy to get a job on Wall Street or just bill hours in a law firm if you just want to make
money.
So it's not possible for you to be doing all this work for this venture just to make money.
You kind of show why you care about this, because there's lots of ups and downs in any new business.
They're going to be days where you're frustrated, you're not making money, you've got bills to pay.
Somebody quit.
Somebody does not fulfill a promise to you.
If you don't have real passion for this business, it's going to be easy to quit.
And if you're smart and talented and well-educated, there's going to be plenty of job opportunities
for you.
So investors want to know.
They need to know.
They have to know that you're really committed to this.
You're not just doing this.
It's kind of interesting.
But you know what?
I kind of went in for an interview with Goldman Sachs last month that they call I think I take it in,
say that's not what investors want to hear.
They don't even want a sense that they want to get the sense that if Goldman Sachs called you and said,
here's a ten million dollar guarantee per year, come to work tomorrow, you would say no, not interested,
because I've got something that is so important.
It's going to change the world and it's can make me a lot more money than ten million dollars a year.
Investors aren't going to ask you to state it that way, but they want to feel that now.
What they do need to know from you and hear from you is your own personal story.
Why, of all the things you could spend your time on, all the business opportunities, did you decide
to do this?
If you have some new miraculous baldness cure, is it because you went bald when you were 12 and people
were picking on you and taunting you as a kid and you were emotionally scarred?
What's and it doesn't have to be that dramatic, but investors need to know what is your story now?
You can say, well, there's no time for that because I've got to go through all these financials and
everything else, and we're we're going to spend the money on.
Yeah, you do have to tell people what you want to spend the money on, but you don't have to go into
every single little piece of going and talking about how the app was created.
If you've got more than two minutes, even with two minutes, spent some time telling people why you
got into this.
Why do you care about this?
What motivated you to spend so much of your time, energy, effort and probably some of your own money
to get this thing going?
That needs to come through.
If you don't have that, then you just look like some McKinsey consultant or Accenture consultant going
through PowerPoint.
That's not going to get the checkbook out from the investors.
So focus right now.
This is your homework.
I want one story that involves a real conversation you had with somebody else about a real problem,
how you felt about it and why that's relevant to getting you into this business.
I want you to write it down now, and I want you to get ready to present it in a moment.

--- Don't Tell Stories, Instead RE-Live Stories Public Speaking ---

Is it OK to use whiteboards, flip charts, other non high tech tools for presentations?
Yes, not only is it OK to use, for example, a whiteboard, it's often better than a lot of PowerPoint
slides.
Here's the beauty of using a whiteboard where you are holding a magic marker or chalk and drawing is
that you can only focus on one thing at a time.
I've never yet seen someone who can just grab 10 different color magic markers and do ten lines at once,
creating a financial chart.
And yet that's what people put up when they have the PowerPoint slide.
It's too complex.
So the beauty of you drawing in front of people is it forces you to focus on one thing at a time.
It forces your audience to focus on one thing at a time.
It often makes it much more understandable.
It's extraordinarily difficult to draw in front of people with a lot of complexity.
You have to distill it down to the simplest elements.
So that's why I'm a huge fan of using simple techniques.
Whiteboards, drawing and props are perfectly fine, too.
If you're talking about how your number one product commodity is oranges and you're from the Chamber
of Commerce in a Florida county, you may want to simply have an orange and pass it around to people
rather than put up a bullet point slide with all sorts of numbers about oranges.
So, yes, we live in a PowerPoint world.
I'm not a..
PowerPoint, but sometimes the simplest tools are the most effective.

--- Here is Why You Are Devoting Your Life to This Project ---

If you followed all the steps so far, you should be ready to give a presentation to real investors.
So congratulations and good luck, but also realize it really shouldn't have anything to do with luck
at this point.
You've prepared there's a process, you have independent validation from your own eyes and from other
friends, family, colleagues that you're giving your best presentation.
Now, no matter how good your presentation is, investors have to say no.
Ninety nine percent of the time they get pitched all the time.
That's OK.
At least you'll know it's not because you gave a poor presentation or they didn't understand your business.
It just didn't fit the profile of what they're looking for.
That's OK.
But also realize here's a secret of all great presenters.
It doesn't matter if they're entrepreneurs seeking money, politicians or leaders in civic life.
Great speakers use every single speech they give as a mini focus group to make the next speech even
better.
Now, obviously, if someone comes up to you and says, great presentation, I love it, my partners
and I want to invest will be drawing up term sheets and delivering it to you in the morning.
You know, your speech worked.
You know, your presentation was successful.
But quite often someone will say, hey, great presentation.
Don't think it quite meets our investment profile, but thanks so much.
We wish you luck.
Now, you don't really know what that means.
They might be thinking, wow, these people are losers.
Their ideas horrible.
They'll never make any money.
You don't really know.
And it's not the investor's job to be your presentation coach.
I would recommend you politely thank them for their time.
Thanks so much.
If you don't mind me, just asking two quick questions.
What did you like about our presentation and do you have just one suggestion on where it could be improved?
Listen to both answers, because there may be something you really liked an answer to a question after
the presentation.
They really liked that.
You move that into your presentation next time.
But they may also say, I still just don't understand your marketplace or I just don't understand what
would keep Google from coming into this market, because it seems like such a logical product extension
for them.
Use that objection as a point in your next presentation.
Doesn't mean you're going to go back to that same person who said no and badger that person.
But if this one investor has a concern that you didn't address, maybe others will so modify your presentation
to add that concern.
A speech should grow.
It should develop and get longer, but it should improve.
To use a favorite word of the high tech industry, you should go through various iterations, just like
your prototype should get better, your products should get better, your website should get better.
Your new business pitch should get better and better and better.
Here's another tip you're giving a presentation.
I would highly recommend that one of your co-founders go with you discreetly hit record on the cell
phone so you can listen to it afterwards.
You should listen if not watched every single pitch presentation you give, because every so often they'll
be that interruption.
Twelve minutes in where an investor asked you a question and you answered it beautifully.
You need to listen to that because it may be that that's something you should say in the first two minutes
of your presentation, that that's what investors are thinking.
So you can always learn you may have seen comedians do this at comedy clubs.
Really good comedians, even successful professionals, will often audio record every single comedy
set they do because they want to listen to see what got the laugh.
Now, you're not looking for laughs, but you are looking for times where there was agreement, questions,
concerns.
This will make your speech better and better.
So good luck with your presentation.
I hope you raise all the money you need.
More important, I hope you build a big business because the presentation skills you use here will only
help you get more clients, more partners perhaps go public one day because being successful in business
is quite often a whole series of successful pitches.
Good luck.

--- How to Use use whiteboards, flip charts, in presentations Public Speaking ---

How should you asked to be introduced for your presentation or speech?
Leave nothing up to chance.
Don't just let somebody introduce you anyway they want don't hope.
They just pull your bio from your website.
Every single speech you give, you need to come up with a unique introduction for that speech.
You need to tell people the information about you that is most relevant to the topic you're discussing
and that's going to whet their appetite further to really listen to you.
It needs to be tailored to that audience for that speech and that topic.
What I would recommend you do is write out word for word exactly what you want to say, leave nothing
to chance and make sure this can be read in a normal tone of voice in less than 60 seconds.
This is not the time to have people read your full lengthy bio and every single word you ever want in
middle school.
This is the time to give them just the details.
They need to know why they're sitting in a room about to listen to you talk on this subject.
Now, occasionally you'll be introduced by someone who fancies him or herself as a great public speaker.
They're not going to want to read your introduction word for word.
What I would do in that case is give them bullet points, big, bold text.
Well, in either case, the full text of your introduction or just the bullet point outline, give it
in big, bold text.
So the person introducing you doesn't have to play with glasses and get it close and give them your
handful of bullet points that you really want them to include.
That way, if they do weave in some other anecdotes or flesh it out, the part you care about most is
there.
You want your audience primed, ready to hear from you before you open your mouth.
A good introduction can do it.

--- Conclusion to Investor Pitching ---

Should I read my speech to make sure I don't make any mistakes?
Well, if you ask any presentation coach, this is probably the question we get that drives us bonkers
the most, it's virtually impossible to read a speech without, by definition, making a mistake.
You've destroyed all eye contact with the audience.
You've become boring, bland, most likely monotone.
Now, it is true there are some people good at reading speech.
Ronald Reagan was good at reading a speech.
I've seen Dan Rather read a speech.
Well, but guess what?
He was reading teleprompter copy and reading scripts every day for 60 years.
If you're reading scripts every day for 60 years, yeah, you'll probably get good at it.
But for most people, business people, people in public life, political life, it's really not a good
idea to read a speech because it instantly handcuffs you, destroys your eye contact, robs you of natural
rhythm in your voice.
Makes you sound phony, contrived, and it just evens out the towns, the volumes, the speed, the
pitch, it makes things to consistent and that's boring.
So you may think it's safe to read because that way you won't forget something.
But if you destroy people's ability to pay attention because they've fallen asleep, it's actually not
safe at all.
Reading a speech, in my view, is actually the riskiest thing you could ever do if your goal is to
actually communicate.

--- How Should You Ask to Be Introduced Public Speaking ---

If you have an opportunity to speak to a foreign audience, I highly recommend you take it.
It's always nice to share ideas with people from different parts of the world or perhaps there in your
country.
And they simply have a different heritage, different culture, different language, background from
you.
It's still an opportunity for you to communicate.
So don't turn it down just because people are from different parts of the world.
This course is going to give you some very specific tips to increase the odds that you're more successful
with your presentation to increase the odds that people can have a good feeling about you, can understand
you and remember your message, process it.
So ideally, they take the actions you want.
So that's what this course is about.
If at any time you have questions, please post your questions here in the comments section of this
course.
I'll be happy to answer you directly.
And I'm glad you're here.
We're going to hop right in.

--- Should I read my speech so that I don’t make any mistakes Public Speaking ---

So how do you remember what to say when you're giving a speech because you don't want to look like you're
reading and staring at a PowerPoint?
What do you do?
Well, here's my solution for you.
I don't remember anything.
I have a cheat sheet now.
This is ethical cheating my friends, but have a cheat sheet just for you.
The beauty of this sheet is a single sheet of paper, large font.
This is what I use when I'm giving an hour long speech on how to speak to the media.
And I have two or three of these around the room.
I never have to pick them up.
I never touch them because it's large font.
I don't have to bend over to look at it or put on my glasses.
I can just be walking by and glance at it that way.
I don't have to remember anything other than the general stuff I say when I see that particular bullet
point and I can talk about it in a non word for word memorized way.
I can just have a conversation about that point.
So don't put pressure on yourself to remember anything for a speech.
Instead, just use notes, but keep it to a single sheet if it takes more than a single sheet of paper
for you to put your notes.
That by definition proves you have not done a good enough job of narrowing down the number of points
you're trying to convey in this speech.

--- You Will Communicate Your Messages and Your Passion ---

Let me define the terms of our audience, you may be in another country and it may be that everybody
understands English, but it's the second or third language, or it may be that you have an audience
that doesn't understand a word of English.
By the way, I only speak English, so I'm talking to you about English because that's what I understand.
You may be speaking to an audience.
They don't understand English, but they do have an interpreter who's either speaking to them and they
have an earpiece in or the interpreter is saying it out loud every 30 seconds or so, or it may be an
audience combined with all that.
So I'm going to give you some tips that try to cover all these different scenarios.
For starters, the preparation for a presentation to foreign audiences can be a little bit different.
Now, I'm not normally a fan of writing speeches out word for word, but if ever you do write your speech
at word, for now is the time to do it, because if you're working with an interpreter, it's great
to give that to the person in advance and you can say, hey, I'm going to be using my own terms.
I may be adlibbing.
This isn't a verbatim script, but a lot of it is going to come from this.
If you give that to the translator in advance, it will help the translator immensely or else you can
give this to the audience.
If you're speaking to a conference of three hundred colleagues and they're in your field and you're
speaking about something that, you know, they're going to be interested in, try to email the entire
document to them and it's going to be pretty easy for them to get it translated.
But these days you just put things in Google Docs translation and it does a pretty good job, not one
hundred percent.
Or you may actually want to hire someone to translate the text to give it to people in advance.
These are things that are nice to do.
Now, let's say you're at the venue and you see there is in fact a translator.
I always recommend you go up, you shake hands, you're polite, you try to establish some commonality.
If you have a book or anything like that, give it to them as far in advance as possible.
But certainly if you are speaking a half an hour from now, you can't expect them to read your whole
book.
The sooner you get to meet the translator, the better.
The more they know about you, the more they know about the content.
What you're trying to do, the easier it's going to be for them to translate for you.
Also, simply talking to you is going to make it easier for them to do their job.
So if you're speaking after lunch and you're at a conference and you get there that morning, I'd go
so far as to recommend having lunch with the translator if that person is available and they can start
to get comfortable with your speech patterns.
So these are all things you can do before your speech even starts to increase the odds that you will
be understood and remembered by the audience.

--- How do I remember what to say in a presentation Public Speaking ---

So how do you handle questions from an audience when giving a speech or presentation?
First of all, you need to take the attitude if someone wants to ask you a question, great, that's
fantastic.
Too many speakers take the attitude of, oh, they might ask me something I don't know or they're interrupting
my presentation.
It's not your presentation.
It's the audience's presentation.
So any time someone wants to ask you a question, that's generally a good thing.
It means A they're listening to you.
B, they're trying to understand.
You see, there may be a hole in something you've said that other people are confused by and that if
you answer this person's question, you'll help everyone d by definition, whatever you say next, an
answer to their question is going to be interesting to that person right there.
So many good things happen when someone wants to ask questions now.
Sure.
There are times if you're speaking to 5000 people and you're given an exact 15 minute time limit, it's
not practical to answer every question or even any question.
But for many of us in the business world, the political world, you've been asked to speak, there's
20, 30 people in the room and there's no strict, strict time limit.
I would have them ask questions right then.
I would not ask people to hold their questions to them.
They're going to forget.
It's frankly a lot more interesting to have this dialogue going on.
It shows people you can think on your feet, you're not rattled, and it shows you being completely
responsive to your audience.
Why in the world wouldn't you want that?
It's basically a softball thrown your way.
So I love it when someone asks questions.
It's very variety for people's ears.
They can now hear two voices instead of just your ears.
And that's not saying your voice is bad.
It's just more interesting to the audience.
And remember, it's not your presentation.
Maybe they're asking you about something that you're going to talk about five minutes from now, change
the order.
Unless it profoundly messes up everything you're doing, then you can politely tell them that you are
going to talk about that in five minutes and you ask for their indulgence.
But it's crucial that you act like you're happy to have questions that you want to answer them and that
you answer it fully without going on and on and on.
I would start answering the question by looking at the person who asked it, then look to other people
in the room and then finish by looking at the person who asked the question, do that and your audience
will reward you.

--- You Can Prepare in Advance for Success ---

When you are preparing your presentation for foreign audiences, it's critically important that you
avoid certain cultural references that just aren't going to make any sense to that foreign audience.
Now, the classic example is the American talking about the touchdown and all these football metaphors
and crush them in the huddle.
And nobody else in the rest of the world knows what they're talking about because football to the rest
of the world means soccer to Americans.
So avoid cultural references that deal with sports specific to you.
That's the biggest blunder.
I find this problem most acute for American businessmen because so many of them do like football and
they make references, blocking and tackling all these analogies and references come from football.
So if you're saying it to a foreign audience, they're not going to know what you're talking about and
you're going to lose them.
And you know what happens when a foreign audience is lost by your speech?
Exactly the same thing that happens when a US audience gets lost by your speech.
They tune out and they read their email and you have wasted your time.
So you've got to treat this at some respect, like any other speech.
You've got to be focused on their audience.
You've got to make sure.
Are they paying attention to they look like they're understanding.
So part of what you've got to do is not completely strip out everything interesting from your speech,
but you've got to make sure your examples, your case studies are things that resonate with people either
everywhere or specific to the country you are in.
Now, the more advanced you can do it with your preparation and research specific to that country.
If you can reference particular sports stars from that country famous in that country, great.
If you don't have time to do that or you're not willing to do that, make sure your references, your
analogies, your metaphors resonate at the human level.
Everywhere you can talk about family, you can talk about joys, you can talk about childbirth, you
can talk about all sorts of things that translate across culture.
But don't talk about your college football game and things that are really unique to right here in the
US.

--- How to Handle Questions from the Audience Public Speaking ---

So how do you handle a heckler if you're giving a presentation?
Folks, I hope it doesn't happen to you, many people go throughout their entire business career giving
presentations that are never hackle, but I can tell you, I've been heckled before.
It's not fun, but it's not the end of the world.
The important thing is not that you have this really snappy, funny one liner that reduces the person
to rubble and he cries and runs out the room.
You don't have to do that, but you do need to make sure that you don't wilt, that you don't act upset,
scared, afraid.
That's really the most important thing.
And showing patients don't getting angry, don't elevate the situation.
There may be times when you have to say, look, one of us can speak.
It's going to be you be my guest.
Now, that's not my first choice.
But if someone persists or you can take about how many of us want to hear him versus me.
Or you could just say, sir, thank you for sharing and then just keep on.
Now I say, sir, because in my experience most hecklers are men, but there's no one perfect response.
The main thing is don't look bothered, don't run off the stage, don't get flustered.
And people will give you points and credit for handling the situation with class.

--- Culture is Everything ---

There's the classic image of the ugly American in a foreign country who's upset that everybody in this
country, whether it's Italy or whether it is Malaysia, doesn't speak English.
Now, it's inexcusable for Americans to be like that, but it is true.
Now, when you see something like that in a movie or a TV show, there's the classic I am now talking
to you loudly and slowly so you will understand my language.
Obviously, that doesn't work if the person you're speaking to doesn't speak your language.
Now, here's the part that's a little bit confusing or contradictory.
I actually do recommend that when you are speaking to foreign audiences that you speak a little louder
than normal and a little slower than normal now.
Hey, we all have cultural biases.
I have a bias.
I'm an American.
I only speak English.
But what I have found in speaking all over the world is there's a tremendous number of people who,
even if English is not their first language, they have a working understanding of English because they've
seen so many movies from Hollywood TV shows in English, they have learned a lot of English.
So here's where speaking a little bit slower helps.
It's simply easier for people to process what you're saying.
When it's slower, they can see the separation between words.
It's easy to sort of hear it figure out in their mind what is that word that they remembered studying
in English class five years ago.
And then they have to translate it from the English word to the word in their language.
That takes time.
Now, I'm not suggesting that you speak like this in a robotic way, because that's annoying.
That's really not suggesting that.
But what I am suggesting is speak a little bit slower than normal.
Don't be afraid to pause a little more between sentences, thoughts, paragraphs, feel free to walk
a little more, pause, reflect, look at people's eyes to see that there is some connection going on.
So it's a subtle thing, but I do recommend speaking a little bit slower than normal.
Longer pauses.
It's going to be much easier for the people in the audience who are translating in their own brain.
But it's also going to make life much easier for the translator because professional translators are
doing an awful lot.
But it's still tough to be speaking out to the audience at the same time having to listen to you.
So when you pause occasionally, they can then say what you just did in the other language, and yet
they haven't missed anything from what you're saying.
So that's the beauty of pausing.
And also just speaking a little louder than normal is going to make it easier for anyone to comprehend
it.
Again, you're not yelling.
You're not shouting.
You're not the so-called ugly American.
But a little louder, more pausing will make it much, much easier for everyone to understand and translate
in their own brains.
And that's going to make it more effective for your speech in your presentation.

--- How to Handle a Heckler Public Speaking ---

So what do you do if you're just plainly losing your audience?
It happens to people, it's happened to me.
You can't simply proceed as if nothing's happening.
Now, there may be times it's after lunch.
People are tired.
They want a nap.
Maybe the room is too warm and it's putting people to sleep.
There may be times when you have to say, look, let's all spend 30 seconds, stand up and stretch.
I'm feeling hot and tired.
I know you are, too.
It may be something as specific is that sometimes your subject matter is just losing them.
And you're going to have to make a quick decision to get rid of some of your content and go to something
more interesting.
Sometimes you may have to decide to really engage your audience.
Sometimes the best is just to deal with the issue head on.
Sally, I feel like I'm losing some of you.
Tell me, where have I gotten fuzzy here?
Can you help me out and put the spotlight on someone there and maybe someone in the audience can help
you out, but if you just ignore it, you're only going to make the problem worse.
So either change the room, change the temperature, change your subject area, change your direction,
change the style, do something to get yourself out of this rut.

--- It Sounds Silly, But this One Tip Helps Massively ---

I understand finding great translators can be difficult, time consuming, sometimes expensive, it
might not work into your schedule, but what I would recommend is having some handouts.
It could be just one or two pages, just with a few bullet points.
Have that translated for the audience.
So they've got something that gives a little more structure to what you're talking about.
Certainly the title, your key points, if you have other information for them, if they can reach out
to you in some other way.
Have something.
Now, I understand it's not possible if you're talking to ten thousand people, but if you are speaking
to one hundred people or fewer, I mean, it's only a few sheets of paper.
So have some kind of handout that's translating in their language of your core content and that will
help your audience.

--- What to Do if You're Losing Your Audience Public Speaking ---

So how do you keep your speech from being boring, because let's face it, Kompass, majority of presentations
in the world are deadly dull and they're boring.
Now, I hear my clients say that all the time, and yet they stand up and they give boring speeches.
Why is that?
It's because we feel like a speech is really about telling people everything we know, every fact,
every bullet point, every number on a particular subject that has occurred in the last quarter of the
last year.
If that is your assumption going into a speech, you are by definition going to be a failure.
That's not what a speech is about.
You want to be an effective speaker.
If you want to not be boring, you have to use editorial judgment.
You have to look at all the things you could say and figure out what are truly the handful of most important
ideas important to me, but also important to this audience.
And now how can I flesh it out?
How can I make it more memorable?
How can I give examples?
And most importantly, how can I tell stories to make these ideas come alive?
If you do that, you will not be boring.
If you let somebody just start piecing together bullet points on a PowerPoint slide deck for you, you
are going to be boring.

--- Rinse and Repeat ---

Why you should never, ever memorize a speech.
It's certainly true that audiences don't like it if your head is buried in the notes or you're staring
at a PowerPoint slide, but some people go too far by trying to memorize every single word in the speech.
The problem is it's just really, really hard to do unless you're a trained actor.
It is going to sound kind of like you are reading a teleprompter in your brain.
It's not going to sound natural because you're going to sound like you're thinking about what do I say
five seconds from now?
Because I'm looking at this teleprompter in my brain.
The other problem is the body reacts to stress in predictable ways.
If you're standing up and speaking in front of people and you're not doing that every single day, your
body is feeling stress.
You're feeling nervous.
When the body's nervous, the brain shuts down, the adrenaline is pushing and your body is just telling
you, run, get ready to run away as quickly as possible.
Because of that, your ability to have recall goes way down.
So even if you're normally great at memorizing something, it's not going to be as effective when you're
giving this presentation.
And the problem is, if you're giving this speech and everything's going well and all of a sudden you
forget the word, it's going to be like a train that goes off the tracks, like what just happened to
me.
It's going to come to a screeching halt and it's going to put a spotlight on sort of the mechanics of
the speech.
It's kind of like if you go to a Broadway show, doesn't happen very often, but when an actor does
flub a line, it's often the most memorable part of the whole show.
You don't want that to be the case when you're giving a presentation.
That's why I do not recommend that you try to memorize a presentation, and I also don't recommend that
you read it.
What I do recommend is have a simple sheet of notes, glance down at your notes occasionally simple
bullet points to three words.
To keep you on track, you need a road map.
Then focus on the ideas, the examples, the stories you want to tell.
Don't worry about getting word for word.
Everything right now it's different.
If you are a full time professional keynote speaker and someone is paid you 50000 dollars for a set
speech that you're famous.
But that's different.
I understand that.
But if you are a business person, you're speaking at a Chamber of Commerce, a city council meeting,
you're running for political office or you're talking to a bunch of customers or prospects.
Don't try to memorize the speech.
Work from a simple outline.

--- Creating Your Permanent Reminders for the Audience ---

You finish the speech, you received polite applause now.
Well, it's not over my recommendation, don't rush out of the room.
Don't try to hop the first plane out of there.
Don't leave the conference to go relax by the pool.
As much as that might be an attraction for you.
Instead, work the room now, you might not be a politician, but you do want to communicate your ideas.
So stay in the room because people may want to ask you questions.
They may have been too intimidated to ask a question in their language or to try to ask in English in
front of people.
But they may be perfectly comfortable talking to you one on one.
And that may be the moment where you really connect with people.
You've answered their questions and sometimes you can see, ah, now I get it.
It also just creates a much stronger personal bond.
People will trust you more.
They'll like you more.
They'll give you higher evaluations if that's relevant to where you are speaking.
So stay in the room, meet as many people as possible, shake hands, be friendly, ask them questions
and let them ask you questions, because this is still an opportunity for you to communicate.
You're still in the spotlight for that particular room.
You're the biggest celebrity there, so you might as well enjoy your celebrity status while it last.
So talk to people in the room.
Be the last person out of the room and you'll make the most out of this speaking engagement.

--- How to Keep Your Speech from Being Boring Public Speaking ---

So how do you recover from a memory loss during a speech or presentation?
Happens, everyone doesn't matter how old you are or any other factor, you're giving a presentation
speech, a talk, and all of a sudden you forget what you're going to say happens to everyone, professional
speaker, amateur alike.
Here's the difference, though.
Average speakers, mediocre speakers, when they forget what they're going to say, their face instantly
reveals that, oh, her or they actually articulate.
Oh, I forgot what I'm going to say.
They put a spotlight, they magnify their awards, their mistakes.
And that in and of itself was a mistake.
Great speakers also forget what they're going to say from time to time.
You know what they do.
They'll stop, look at you, like I just said, something so brilliant, you need a couple seconds to
think about it or they'll stop.
Look down.
Walk a few feet as if they're being completely reflective, self-assured.
Inwardly they're thinking, oh, what am I going to say?
What am I?
So outwardly, they're projecting complete calm and the state of being relaxed.
The other thing great speakers understand is the audience can't read my mind.
The audience does it know if I forgot something or what's next on my agenda or my outline.
So if I forget it and I come back to it later and cover it, it's still all going to be good.
They won't know.
So I realize you don't have to panic.
Your audience doesn't know that you forgot what you're going to say.
So relax, take a breath.
Just pause.
It may seem like forever for you, but if it's only two seconds, your audience won't notice it.
They'll actually appreciate it, gives them a second to think and reflect upon what you just said.
So it's not crucial to have a perfect memory.
What is crucial is to figure out how to hide it from your audience and not take out a big sign telling
them when you've screwed up.

--- Working the Room ---

Thanks for being a part of this course on how to speak to foreign audiences, if you follow the tips
that we've discussed here.
I think you're going to be quite successful in your presentations and you've heard me say this throughout.
But keep in mind, it's not that different than speaking to domestic audiences, because, let's face
it, most speakers, most places are awful and are boring and don't really communicate much.
So your goal shouldn't be to be just as good as most speakers speaking in their own language.
That's too low a standard.
Your goal should be to be great, to have the ideas you care about the most understood by your audience,
remembered by your audience, so they can take the actions you're advocating.
That's the goal.
Don't ever lose sight of the goals and the other things are relatively simple.
Trying to talk to the translator in advance, stripping out the cultural reference points that people
just are not going to understand because they don't watch the same TV shows and watch the same sports.
But putting in new metaphors, new analogies, new stories that transcend human experience everywhere.
If you do that and you speak a little bit slower and you just go out of your way to really connect with
people, you're going to do an excellent job with this speech.
My final tip to you is don't stop here.
One good speech in one foreign place can create more and more invitations to speak elsewhere.
So here's the final tip.
When you are speaking to this audience for real, the real world.
Have someone, a friend, a colleague, the organizer in the corner somewhere, preferably maybe in
the front row, quietly capturing your speech the entire time because you want to learn from this speech.
You want to figure out what worked, where were you expecting applause and you didn't get it.
Where were you not expecting any response?
And all of a sudden, people are laughing.
When you have a video record of your presentation, you've got something to go back to study to figure
out exactly what worked so you can make it better, what didn't work so you can tweak it.
So please video record every practice you do, but also every speech.
Do that and you will be a fantastic communicator, a great speaker in any language.
Good luck.

--- How to Recover from a Memory Lapse during a Speech Public Speaking ---

So what happens when your equipment malfunctions, when you're giving a speech for the most part, unless
it's a light coming in, crashing down on your head, you're better off not talking about it, ignoring
it.
If one of the wrong slides pops up, are you advance two at a time rather than one?
Don't say, oh, my gosh, I can't believe this.
Instead, just quietly back up and go to your slide.
Now, I've had situations where I was giving a PowerPoint presentation.
I forgot to plug in my laptop.
So halfway during the power presentation, PowerPoint presentation, it powers down.
Now, I was giving a speech at a training on how to give effect, a PowerPoint presentation.
So I don't very well want to say, oh, my gosh, I'm an idiot.
I can't do that.
Is this I'm so embarrassing.
So I just continued talking about related concepts, asked a question of someone in the audience and
then quickly bent down, plugged the laptop back in, brought it back up and continued with the PowerPoint
presentation as if nothing had happened.
In fact, no one actually noticed.
So people are not going to notice a lot of the technical problems you have, or for that matter, your
own problems of arms or ause or forgetting something.
People don't remember your mistakes.
Typically, they remember your reactions to your mistake.
That's why it's important not to get upset.
That's why it's important not to apologize.
I still remember a presentation I heard from a colleague who was giving a PowerPoint presentation.
Everything was great, but all of a sudden her slide deck got stuck and in frustration, she slammed
the laptop down, angry for a second to continue to give a great presentation.
The only problem is the only thing anyone remembered was that moment, because that was the most emotional
moment of the presentation.
It had the most action.
It had the most drama.
So I'm not suggesting if a lamp falls on your head, you're supposed to ignore that.
But if there's a whole bunch of little technical things, the right slide doesn't come up instantly.
Something sticks, don't make a big deal out of it.
Just continue to present giving people your ideas in an interesting, memorable way and you'll be fine.
And that's what they'll remember.

--- Conclusion to Speaking to Foreign Audiences ---

Congratulations, you're an engineer and you want to be a better presenter, I commend you on this goal.
But let's face reality, engineers have an awful, awful reputation when it comes to public speaking.
And the reputation is that their head is down and they're reading a whole bunch of notes are they're
going through PowerPoint and they just lose people in the data.
And guess what?
There's no communication taking place.
Let's not lose sight of what our goal is.
Our goal is to actually communicate ideas when we're speaking.
It's not to just read through bullet points and data.
Here's the big goal.
Every time you speak, number one, you want to come across as comfortable, confident, relaxed, your
style.
Not my style, not a style like Reagan or Clinton, but your style.
The second goal is to make sure people understand you.
The third goal is to make sure people remember your messages so that the fourth goal can happen.
People can take the actions you want.
They can approve the permit, they can improve the design.
They can allocate the budget.
You need to build this bridge when we speak.
We're doing so because we want people to do things to enact our policies, to give an approval to what
we've already built or designed.
So let's not lose sight of what our goals are in every single presentation.
This course is going to teach you how to do it.
Let's start now.

--- How to Smile during a Speech Public Speaking ---

Should you wear glasses when giving a speech or presentation now, I'm wearing glasses now, but I don't
actually wear glasses when I'm giving a speech.
I'm wearing glasses now because I'm looking at notes.
I'm looking for the next one.
I have some notes on my computer screen.
But I do not recommend wearing glasses when you speak unless you always wear glasses.
Now, if you're someone who wears glasses all the time for distance and reading, don't feel the need
to take your glasses off when you're giving a speech.
But if you only wear your glasses for reading, I would recommend not wearing glasses when you're speaking,
because here's the reason.
I want there to be as few barriers as possible between you and your audience.
I want them to see you.
Now, these are relatively unobtrusive glasses.
They don't have big pass plastic frames with with color.
They don't have a lot of metal.
In fact, they're really just clear plastic, which is why I wear them.
And I really only wear these for when I'm creating speaking videos.
The problem with a lot of glasses, they cast shadows on your eyes and people can't see your eyes or
they have reflections.
So even these glasses, which are supposed to be reflection, proof, you can still see, depending
on the angle, some reflection and it causes distraction.
There is this theory out there.
I would call it a myth that somehow people will perceive you as smarter if you wear glasses.
That is just a bunch of baloney.
Now, if you wear glasses, I'm not telling you to throw your glasses away, but all things being equal,
you don't need your glasses for when you're speaking, don't wear them.
Now, if you need your glasses for reading and you're using notes, do what I do is simply make the
font larger on your paper and you won't need glasses for when you're speaking.

--- How to Deal with Malfunctions during a Speech Public Speaking ---

And the next lecture, we're really going to get into the nuts and bolts of designing your speech,
your presentation, and then getting on to the important part of practicing.
But before we do, I want to step back for a minute and just offer you a challenge.
I really want you to put your engineer's cap on when it comes to presenting this speech and creating
this speech.
There's this perception among a lot of engineers that public speaking coaches like me want to try to
force them into doing something that's out of character, that we somehow want to teach you to be touchy
feely and not care about facts and just tell a bunch of warm stories and be all Lucy Goosey with the
facts and not really care if things are right.
That's not it at all.
I actually want you to be more like an engineer.
As an engineer, you should focus on results.
So if you speak and people don't remember what you're talking about, guess what?
You now have empirical evidence that your speech failed.
I would submit to you that you don't have a single shred of empirical evidence that the way you've been
giving presentations is effective, i.e. this idea of gathering every fact, every data point, lots
of complex charts and graphs, gathering it together, putting it on slides and sort of quickly going
through the numbers, reading blah, blah, blah.
But you don't have a single shred of evidence that that works well.
Why do we do it?
Because it's easy for us to do it that way, to gather the facts and have people emailing us stuff.
Plus, we maybe saw our boss do it that way.
We've seen others in our corporation or organization do it that way.
But everything I just said is the same reason people use leeches and, you know, burned witches and
all sorts of things.
There's no evidence for it.
So I want you to take the exact same approach you do to designing and building a bridge, a skyscraper
or anything else.
I want you to use the materials that work and to test it.
You can't just throw every single thing into building a bridge.
If you try to build a bridge and you're using bricks and steel and iron and straw and everything, it's
probably going to look awful and probably won't be that sturdy either.
And yet, isn't that what we do with our speeches?
We just try to put every single fact, every data point, bring together 10 other colleagues, previous
power points.
So there's more and more stuff in it doesn't work.
So I'm going to give you all sorts of tips in this.
Course I have already.
I I'll continue to you can ignore a lot of them.
But the one thing I really want you to focus on is have an engineer's mentality of designing something
that works based on evidence.
So here's the thing about PowerPoint.
You'll hear me talk about this later and I'll go ahead and give you a heads up.
Now, it's very easy to find out what works of PowerPoint.
You give the presentation when you're done, ask your audience what slides.
They remember what the content was.
If they don't remember it didn't work, throw the slide in the trash can.
I'm serious, you build a bridge and every single car just collapses and drives and goes in the ocean.
People drown.
Are you going to keep building that bridge or would you say, you know what, this bridge isn't working.
It's a death trap.
It's exactly the same thing with your presentations and your speeches.
So if you are giving a presentation, whether using PowerPoint or not, when you're done, ask your
audience what they remember.
Any important point that you really wanted them to remember, if they can't throw it back in your face,
you now have empirical evidence that the way you presented it didn't work.
You failed to take that part of your presentation.
If it's on paper, tear it up and throw it in the garbage can.
If you came to me and said you want to build a mansion in the Caribbean and you want to make sure it
withstands hurricanes, and I say, sure, I'm the engineer for you and I've engineered this beautiful
straw hut, are you just going to take my word for it?
Are you going to want some testing?
I think you're going to want some testing before you pay me a lot of money to build that straw hut,
to support you and your family and protect you and your family during a hurricane.
It's the exact same thing with your presentations.
You can test them now.
It's very easy to test people think of public speaking as a so-called soft skill, like it's a little
puppy, a little bunny.
Oh, it's a big mystery as to what.
No, it's not.
If you are giving a technical presentation on some engineering project to 40 colleagues in your company
on Thursday or to your board of directors, find three colleagues on Tuesday at lunch, give them your
presentation when you're done, ask them every message they remember, any message they remember.
Congratulations.
You design that part of your speech.
Well, you delivered it well.
It succeeds.
It's ready to go from prototype to the final deliverable.
Any idea that was important to you that your three colleagues couldn't throw in your face?
You now have empirical evidence that you failed miserably.
It doesn't work.
Throw that part of the speech in the trash can.
Same with the slides.
Test the slides.
It works if they remember it and they remember the ideas and why it's important.
They don't remember the slides.
It didn't work.
And that's the real problem.
We'll go into this in more detail in a future lecture.
But that's the real problem with putting text and a lot of numbers on PowerPoint slides.
I like text.
I like to read I've written eight books.
I don't have any evidence that putting text up on a slide while you're talking and projecting and moving
things around is an effective way to get people to remember ideas.
Guess what?
You don't have any evidence either, so don't take my word for it.
Test with your audience if you want to be serious about being an engineer, someone who respects empiricism,
respects the idea of design, respects the whole idea of evidence, then this is really my challenge
to you.
No matter how you put together your presentation, whether your style is quiet, not moving or bold
and lots of however you do it, I don't really care.
All I care about is that you have an engineer's mentality of testing after the fact to make sure it
works.
You build a skyscraper and the elevator stops every single time.
It's one hundred story skyscraper and every single time it stops it the 30th floor and releases and
people crash to their death.
You're not going to say, well, you know, that's the building and it's opening up to the public.
Now, that's just the way you wouldn't do that.
You would fix the problem before adding more and more people that I want you to take that same mentality
with your speeches, practice your speeches, test if people you tested on don't get it, you've got
to change your speech.
This is a very different process than the way most engineers and most business executives in general
prepare.
Most people spend their time gathering more and more data, more and more data, checking the data,
checking the slide spell, checking the slides, changing the font size, changing the colors, emailing
it to other people for approval.
And then they stand up.
And for the first time ever, they're talking about the speech in front of investors or clients or customers
or colleagues or the board of directors.
That's a disastrous way of doing it, so that's the one thing I really want you to promise me is this
idea that you're going to test.
And if it doesn't pass the test, shut down the job operation, redo your presentation test again.
Don't give your speech until it's tested positive.

--- Engineers Can Give Excellent Speeches When They Do This... ---

So how do you make eye contact with an audience when you're giving a presentation, the worst thing
you can do, the very bottom of the barrel are speakers who don't ever look at the audience.
They're staring at their notes.
They're turning their back and reading the PowerPoint slides, or they're just looking over people's
heads and staring at the clock.
That's the very worst level of speaker.
Then there's the level of speaker where they're looking at people.
But it's kind of like a windshield wiper.
They're going back and forth.
That may be fast.
It may be slow, but they're never really looking at any one person.
They're looking at the whole group the whole time.
Or some people say it's like a water sprinkler.
You're going back and forth.
That's what most people do.
And it's not as bad as the person reading, but it's still impersonal.
When you're in the audience, you don't really feel that personal connection.
Because of that, it's easier to tune out zone out and you can be on the second row.
That person's looking in your area, but you still feel like you can kind of check your email because
they don't really see you.
That's not what the best speakers do.
The very best speakers do something different with their eyes.
They look at one person, not for a minute or two minutes.
It's not a stare down contests, but they look at one person for a full for a couple of sentences.
They finish that second sentence.
Then they go to another person and they have a thought, a couple of sentences and then they go to another
person.
Now, if you're speaking for 20 minutes to 50 people, you can give absolutely every single person in
that room eye contact several times.
So everyone can feel like you're listening to them, you're respecting to them, you care about them.
So it creates a much stronger bond with your audience, gives them the sense that you care about them.
Because of that, they're going to care more about you.
They're going to listen to you more intently.
Now, this isn't an easy thing to do if you're nervous, but it's not fundamentally a hard thing to
do.
It's not like learning how to dunk a basketball or becoming a world class gymnast.
It's not a hard skill like that, but it's not something you're going to be able to do the first time
just like that.
You're going to have to think about it and practice the eye contact, but it can make a huge, huge
difference on the impact you will have with your audience.
So it's well worth it.

--- Should You Wear Glasses during a Speech Public Speaking ---

Before you just start building a bridge connecting to land masses over water, you typically ask yourself,
what is the goal here?
The goal is not to just put a bunch of steel in the sky.
The goal is to actually create a safe structure connecting to land masses so that cars and trucks and
trains can go over it safely.
That's the goal.
And here's one of the very hot things I find about engineers all over the world.
They tend to be goal focused, which is good.
They tend to want empirical evidence for what they do, which is good.
They tend to want to do things that actually work.
That's good.
But then they get up to give a speech and all of a sudden all that is tossed aside.
And many engineers sorry if this sounds like a gross generalization, but I'm pretty sure you agree.
Many engineers throw all that away and they think of a speech as an opportunity to just tell people
everything they know, to give them every little fact, every little detail, every no about a particular
project or a particular design.
Where's the evidence that that works?
So I would ask you to take the very same approach you do with all your other work and start by asking
yourself, what are the goals of this presentation?
Is it seeking budgetary approval or is it seeking regulation approval?
What is the goal that you're trying to do?
I want you to write that down right now, write it down in one sentence.
What is the goal of your next presentation?

--- Never Get Trapped in The Engineer Mentality That Excuses Bad Speaking ---

How should women alter their voice when giving a speech?
There is what purports to be a body of knowledge and evidence out there suggesting that the lower your
voice is, the more authoritative you are, and somehow women aren't taken seriously with a high voice.
I differ with that.
I simply in my own dealings of training female executives, male executives, more than 10000 over the
last 30 years from six continents, do not find this to be believable, realistic or an actual issue.
Here's the real problem for women and for men.
It's actually having something interesting to say.
That's the far bigger issue.
The thing with voice is different voices are higher and lower than others.
I have found that audiences respond to is variation in voice.
So if you have a low voice like this, but you're talking like this the whole time, it's monotone and
everyone will fall asleep if you have a relatively high voice, but you're using a conversational tone
in the full range of voice.
People will like what you have to say and they will like you, too.
So I frankly think it's a complete, utter waste of time for female executives to try to lower their
voice, because it's going to sound like you're acting it's going to sound phony, it's going to sound
contrived, and there's a good chance you end up sounding monotone and boring.
Of course, there are exceptions.
I do have personal friends who went on to become major network newscasters who did get advice earlier
in their career.
And I did go to voice coaching and consulting and really tried to lower it and still sound natural.
So, yeah, it can happen.
If you want to be a full time professional broadcaster, maybe it would help you, but unless you've
got an extra thousand hours to kill, I would focus on what's more important.
That is, make sure you have something interesting to say in your speech.
Make sure you use the full range of your voice.
Make sure you sound conversational.
That's so much more interesting and important than talking like some news broadcaster from the 1970s.

--- How to Make Eye Contact with Your Audience Public Speaking Training ---

Thanks for being a part of this course on public speaking for engineers, I've given you all kinds of
tips.
I certainly hope that you've done the practice, videotaped yourself repeatedly until you like it.
But it really all boils down to one thing and it's the engineers mentality.
Before you give a speech to a real audience, a real board of directors, a real group of colleagues
at a trade association, a real group of customers, clients practice on two or three colleagues and
test, make sure they remember your messages and can throw them back in your face, make sure they remember
your slides and can tell you what they were and what it means.
As long as you do that, you'll be in great shape for every presentation the rest of your life.
If you don't do that well, you'll be like a lot of other engineers.
Good luck with all of your presentations in life.
I'm TJ Walker.

--- Accomplish the Goals for Your Speaking "Project" ---

So how do you stop saying, ah, um, ah, like, you know, when you're giving a presentation?
I have a very simple solution.
I've used this for many, many years with clients all over the world, and I've created these little
stickers.
You can create these at home when I have is the word ah.
Or with the international red.
No sign, you know, no left hand turn, no parking, no hazardous waste.
And I simply peel it off you can and put it on their watch, their cell phone, their laptop screen
or all three.
You can simply cut it out with scissors, get a red magic marker, you type the word first, whatever
it is you say.
And here's the thing.
It doesn't require any more work after that.
All of us look at something dozens of times a day.
I looked at my watch.
You may look at your cell phone.
Whatever it is you look at, this can stick in your brain.
So what happens is if you say are too often and you have the sticker that has the don't do that, the
international no symbol and it's on your watch or your cell phone after a day, you've seen that don't
say it image.
Twenty times you'll still say ah or arm.
But you have this kind of the Homer Simpson moment where you become aware of it.
You still have the problem, though, after two or three days of constantly looking at this image,
as you're about to say it, you'll almost catch the ah the but it still comes out of your mouth.
But after a week of looking at the image, the image will come up in your brain.
Before you say it, you can simply pause.
Now you'll come across more confident or comfortable, less cluttered, and the problem will melt away.
Now, word of caution, everybody says, and occasionally it's not the end of the world.
I see clients who review a 20 minute speech they've given, they said, to arms, and they're obsessed
over that.
Meanwhile, their speech was incredibly boring and everyone fell asleep, but they're worried about
a couple of them.
So you've got to put this problem in perspective.
Most of us have far bigger problems.
Also realize some of the most wildly successful speakers in the world say and all the time, Bill O'Reilly,
Martha Stewart, Geraldo Rivera, David Letterman, what do they all have in common?
They make tens of millions of dollars, sometimes that much a year.
And they all say on I'm a lot.
So I realize it's more important to have something interesting to say than to say it without any hours
and hours.
But if you need to create one of your own stickers and solve the problem now.

--- How Women Should Alter their Voice during a Speech Public Speaking ---

So you've written down the goals of your presentation in one sentence, that's great.
Now I need you to come up with every single idea, every fact, every number, every bullet point,
every message that supports your goal, that would lead your audience to want to embrace your goal and
to do what you want them to do.
Come up with that.
Every single thing you could think of, brainstorm it, put it down, organize it on a PowerPoint if
you want.
Write them all down.
And here's what I need to do next.
Put them in priority.
Anything that isn't in the top five, throw it away or put it in a PowerPoint that you hand out to people
in advance or email to people.
Here's why I say this.
And this is really the most important part of this entire course.
I've tested audiences around the world who had to listen to engineers, and I always ask them the same
question.
Think of the best engineer you've heard speak in the last year, the last five years, last ten years.
Now, tell me every message point you remember, and sometimes it's nothing.
Sometimes it's one point, occasionally two, sometimes three, every once in a while for ideas.
Once every six months, somebody will mention five ideas they remember from the best engineer they've
ever heard speak.
By the way, I ask this of every audience I work with in every profession, I've never had an audience
member remember more than five ideas.
So this isn't a problem unique to engineers.
So I start off with the fundamental premise that it's actually difficult to get audiences to remember
ideas.
Remember, it's not communication if it comes out of your mouth, it's not communication.
If it's just on a slide, it's communication.
If your audience A understands it and B remembers it, otherwise, how else will they take the actions
you want?
The number one problem I have with the hundreds and hundreds of engineers I've worked with over the
years is they don't engineer, they don't design their speech in a way that would allow it to succeed
because they cram way too many facts, way too many numbers, way too many bullet points in it.
They make it a data dump.
And engineers like to say, well, I'm an engineer.
Of course I have to put in all the technical stuff.
Well, I thought engineers were supposed to be rational, logical, not just do things based on gut
feeling.
I would submit to you you don't have a single shred of evidence that standing up in front of your board
of directors or your investors or your colleagues and simply going through data point after data point
after data point and giving them everything you know is effective.
You don't have any evidence that it works.
Therefore, why are you doing it?
The number one way you can go from an average speaker as an engineer?
Let's face it, that's awful to great.
Has nothing to do with the hand gestures, the eye contact moving around the room.
Those things can be nice.
But the number one thing you can do to instantly catapult yourself above ninety eight percent of your
competitors is to simply narrow the focus of your messages to the top handful.
No, you're not dumbing it down.
You are putting a spotlight on what is truly important.
If there's other information you want to convey, email it, hand it out.
Posted as a white paper, but do not try to cover every single little bullet point, every no every
data point, every fact in your presentation.
If you do, you will fail.
You absolutely will not succeed.
So that's your homework right now.
I need you to look at a speech that you're going to give or one that you did get before, put it in
priority and come up with just five ideas.
All the other stuff don't project it.
It's not going to work.
If you want to give it to people as a handout, find PDF, find PowerPoint that you're emailing.
Great.
Don't project it all and don't read it all.
I'm giving all of you a couple of my public speaking books in the end of this course and the bonus section.
But I'm not going to read every single point to you in one of these.
And I'm not going to show it all up on Bullet Point.
I'm going to focus on one thing at a time because all the research says that that's actually how you
communicate.
So that's my next challenge for you.
I need you to come up with your top five message points that you want people to understand and remember
because it's likely to drive them to the actions you want.
Five message points, ten words or less, not five big themes.
Or you can cram eighty nine bullet points underneath each one, but just five standalone ideas do that
now.

--- Your Future as an Engineer Who Is also Know as a Great Communicator ---

So how do you make a presentation or if you're in high school or college, first thing to realize is
you're on a level playing field.
There are certain things that 50 or 60 year old executives or politicians can do or get away with that.
Perhaps you can't.
But speaking isn't one of those things.
The very same things, a 50, 60, 70 year old who's a great polished public speaker does.
You can do to the things that get people in trouble at any age can get you in trouble, too.
If you're looking down and speaking with a flat tone of voice, speaking too quickly, that's bad at
any age.
If you're fidgeting with your fingers and going back and forth from one leg to the next, it's going
to make you seem nervous and uncomfortable at any age.
It doesn't matter if you're five fifty or 105 five.
So part of it is you've got to realize it doesn't matter if I'm in high school, middle school, college
or running for president of the United States.
If I'm standing and speaking, I've got an opportunity to put a spotlight on one idea at a time to make
it interesting and memorable for people or to bore them.
It really all comes down to that.
So you've got to somehow figure out what is it that you're talking about that's interesting to you?
How can you make it interesting to your fellow classmates, to your teacher?
How can you put a spotlight on what's truly important?
Ideally, you can show why you have a particular passion for this subject.
You do this and you will be as good a speaker as anyone of any age.

--- How to Stop Saying Um and Ah when You Speak Public Speaking ---

So how do you give a good technical presentation?
Here's the problem, you're told you have to give a technical presentation and people automatically
put this hat on and it says, oh, I've got to be really boring and do a massive data dump.
No, you don't.
You can be interesting and memorable.
It doesn't matter if it's a technical presentation of financial presentation, formal or informal.
The audience is still judging you the same way as this.
Interesting, useful, helpful.
I'll pay attention, boring, tedious, alone.
And so you've got to realize that when you're giving a technical presentation.
People tell me all the time, T.J., I love your ideas about narrowing the message is down, having
examples, case studies, stories, but I can't do that because I'm giving a technical presentation.
That's absolute garbage.
You know who else gave technical presentations?
Steve Jobs.
Now, I don't want you to mimic him and try to be Steve Jobs.
But when he spoke, he got people to focus on one thing at a time when he used visuals.
It wasn't to store a whole bunch of words.
So I would urge you, Google Steve Jobs speeches, go to YouTube, look at his speeches and note how
relatively few number of points and data points the numbers are in his speeches.
Look at how he uses images to drive home technical points.
So when he wanted to communicate the technical point that one of his AirMax earlier laptop was incredibly
thin, he didn't put up a slide.
The keynote slide, which is the Apple version of PowerPoint, he didn't put up a keynote slide that
said bullet point thickness, one eighth of inch.
That's not what he did.
He had someone walk out on stage, carry an envelope, give it to him.
And he said, how thin is this new computer?
He pulled it out of the envelope thin enough to fit in this envelope.
It automatically conveyed the idea, wow, this computer is really thin.
Most people, when told they have to give a technical presentation, they wouldn't do that.
They think, oh, I got to go over all the specs and the gigahertz and the megabytes and the ram and
blah, blah, blah, blah.
It's boring, it doesn't stick.
Now, you got to be able to answer people's questions on that.
You can certainly give them that information in the handout, the email, the press release.
But as far as you standing up and speaking, that's not the time to do the technical data dump.
You've got to get people to focus on what's most important in your technology and how it's going to
help and change their lives.

--- Design Your Messages for Maximum Impact ---

So let's dig a little deeper, what is keeping us from speaking out at meetings, what makes it different
from just talking to one colleague in the hallway, someone we know and trust, and we can have a free
flowing conversation?
Part of it is just this feeling of different eyes looking at us.
Sometimes it's the fact that it's a boss or a boss's boss.
Sometimes it's the stature of the people in the room.
It's a whole bunch of reasons.
And at some point we had to just get over it and just talk.
I want to start off with the easiest way of talking in a meeting, and that is to simply ask a question.
It doesn't have to be a brilliant question.
It just has to be a question that relates to something that's being talked about or will be talked about.
But don't put pressure on yourself.
You are not trying to be Charlie Rose or Oprah Winfrey or Barbara Walter with your questions.
Just ask a simple question.
Here's what I'm after.
If they are, say, more than 10 people or for you, it might even be five people, but there's some
threshold of people in a room that makes you uncomfortable.
You feel pressure, you feel adrenaline pulsating through your body with the idea of speaking in front
of people.
I want to get used to doing that so that the adrenaline doesn't pump and you don't have this fight or
flight mentality going on in fighting in your body to get out of there.
I want you to be able to be calm now.
It's perfectly normal to be nervous, to be uncomfortable when you're about to speak in front of people,
even if it's to ask a simple question.
But it is pretty simple to ask a question, and it gets you in the habit of simply talking, projecting
your voice to be heard in front of five or 10 or 15 or 20 people.
So let's start off with don't mean to sound condescending, but let's start off with some baby steps.
I want you to think of three or four questions you could ask at the very next meeting you have to attend,
whether it is for your business or your trade association, your civic organization.
Write those questions down now.

--- How to Make a Presentation in High School or College Public Speaking ---

So how do you recover from a mistake or blunder when you're giving a presentation?
Look, everybody makes mistakes from time to time, I make mistakes.
Here's the difference, though, between how amateurs handle it and real pros.
What most people do if they make a mistake and they realize it, all of a sudden it's.
They visibly show all their frustration on their face, they may apologize and unfortunately, what
happens, even if people can relate to you, it becomes the most memorable moment of your presentation.
People are feeling sorry for you.
They're feeling sympathy for you.
That's not the emotion you want from your audience.
You want them focused on the ideas you have and why they need to do what you're asking them to do.
So my advice is, if you make a mistake, first of all, you've got to make a judgment.
How big of a mistake is it?
Because there's plenty of mistakes where you didn't say it exactly the way you want it to.
But it's not factually incorrect.
It's not legally a problem.
It's just not the best way of saying it.
In that case, ignore it or explain it again without referencing your previous mistakes.
Now, occasionally you can make a mistake.
That is a genuine problem.
If you say your profits are up a billion dollars last quarter and you meant to say it's a million dollars,
well, you better correct that right away.
Or the Securities and Exchange Commission could be all over you and you could find yourself in prison.
So in that particular case, I would just state let me correct that.
It's one million dollars last quarter.
Not the first number I said.
State it state in a straightforward way, don't apologize, don't look and act like you are holding
yourself in contempt, just simply go on correct the record in a straightforward way and continue.
Don't let it act like it's bothering you.
Do that and people will not remember your mistakes.
They'll remember your main messages.

--- How to Give a Technical Speech Public Speaking ---

So speaking up at a meeting is different from giving a speech, giving a prepared presentation, giving
a PowerPoint, if it looks like you're just raising your hand, ask a question.
All of a sudden, you pull out a big, long script and you start reading your PowerPoint slide.
That's going to seem odd.
The good news is you don't have to do that.
There's not that much pressure when you're speaking up at a meeting.
All you really need to do is introduce one idea.
Now, it can be in the form of a question or a statement, but you don't have to have a full script.
You don't have to have a PowerPoint.
You don't have to have a whole show and tell.
But that doesn't mean you can't have some way of preparing what I would recommend in any meeting.
It's good etiquette anyway, and it's good to just help the memory process make notes when you're in
a meeting, when you hear other people speaking.
When you hear a boss, a colleague, a client speaking, take notes on what they're saying.
It helps your memory process.
But then if you have questions or disagreements or added insights, write notes and they should just
be two or three words at a time.
Again, if you want to raise your hand or you just shout out something to say in a meeting, it shouldn't
be staring at a big, long list of notes, page after page.
But if you want to have a single sheet now, this is tight, but you should just write it out in your
hands.
If you want to have a single sheet where you're just glancing down occasionally to frame your thoughts,
that's fine.
There's nothing wrong with glancing at notes.
I just wouldn't read whole sentences.
I wouldn't read whole paragraphs.
But to take a few notes, to give you a sense of some structure, if you're going to say more than 10
seconds worth is perfectly fine.
So get in the habit in any meeting, especially one where you think it might help you to speak out,
take notes.
And that way you can actually have a little outline for what you want to say in front of the group.
And I mean a little outline, a tight, focused outline, not whole sentences.
So think about a subject that you might be asked to add to in a meeting that where you might have some
insights or questions and try to come up with a little outline right now that you can use for practice.
We're going to do in a few minutes.

--- Learn the Easiest Thing to Present: A Question ---

How to use a teleprompter, you have seen presidents do it, newscasters do it, now you can use a tape.
You see what I'm doing there?
That's what you don't want to do with a teleprompter.
Now, we've all seen political conventions where speaker after speaker gets up and they sound wooden,
contrived, phony, and it's because they're using a teleprompter the wrong way.
Here's what's happening to most people.
If they've never used a teleprompter before and they haven't practiced it and gotten really comfortable
with it, is instead of speaking the way they want to and letting the teleprompter follow them, they
make the teleprompter in charge.
So they're reading the script.
And what happens when people read is they flatten out their voice.
All of a sudden the volume is the same, the speed is the same.
The pause between words and sentences is the same, and you're already asleep.
Now it's this consistency.
The other thing that happens is they freeze their body, they freeze their face, and it's just a complete
disaster.
So if you want to be great at the teleprompter, there are a few simple rules you have to follow.
Number one, you have to sometimes speak a little louder than usual sometimes.
Number two, you have to speak a little softer than usual sometimes.
Number three, you have to speak a little faster than usual.
Number four, sometimes you have to speak a little slower than usual.
And number five, sometimes you have to pause.
It really comes down to that if you do all of those things, plus have some natural head and hand and
facial expression, if you do that, you won't sound like you're reading a teleprompter.
Now, there are certain politicians well known for doing a good job with a teleprompter, not being
partisan here.
Ronald Reagan and Barack Obama both great with a teleprompter.
Now they have different messages, different philosophies.
But the way they used a teleprompter was exactly the same.
They changed their speed tempo volume.
They paused and they sounded as if they were just talking to you.
The other thing they do is they rehearse.
People use the teleprompter because they think, great, I won't have to rehearse or memorize.
Now, I can just talk.
Now, if you want to use the teleprompter effectively, it actually requires more time.
You need to practice that speech.
You need to get used to it.
Here's the final thing I want to say about teleprompter is don't let someone talk you into using it
if you really don't need it.
A lot of major national conventions, trade conventions are somehow convincing their executives to do
this because it gets things on time.
No, it doesn't.
It tends to make everyone really boring and flat.
Most people most of the time are much better off speaking from a simple sheet, one sheet of paper rather
than having the whole script.
Now, something else you can do with your teleprompter is you can use it just to put notes or an outline.
So if you're going to use teleprompter, by all means, practice, rehearse, rehearse on video, it's
not something to do to save you time.
It's something you use if you have even more time than usual to practice and rehearse.

--- How to Recover from Making a Mistake in a Speech Public Speaking ---

You may have heard the old expression, there's no such thing as a dumb question or a bad question,
technically speaking, that's not true.
It is possible to ask a stupid question.
People laugh at you and think you're stupid.
So I'm not going to tell you that there's zero risk in asking questions or speaking up in a meeting.
But you have to weigh that against the other possible negative outcomes from you not saying anything.
Now, it's been my experience that people actually listening to someone ask a question thinking, oh,
my gosh, that's so stupid.
This person is an idiot.
That's relatively rare.
And yet when managers and others are sizing up a group, a team, a bunch of executives and figuring
out who's an executive, who really has leadership potential, who's going to rise further and further,
who's going to be the CEO, people are doing that consciously and unconsciously in every meeting based
in part on who's speaking and who isn't.
And those who never speak out run a very high risk of being perceived as someone not really cut out
for leadership potential, someone who should sort of stay where they are now.
Folks, that's a real risk.
So when you're weighing risk, you can't simply do it in an unfair way and focus exclusively on the
risk of saying something stupid.
You have to really look at the risk of being seen quiet, uninteresting, unintelligent, nothing to
add, no real insights, no intellectual leadership.
Those are all very real risk you face every single time.
You don't speak up at a meeting to either add your insights, give some additional thoughts or to ask
insightful questions.
So please, let's have an honest risk assessment.
In my view, the risk of asking a question that people think is stupid is relatively low.
The risk of staying silent is quite high.

--- Build Confidence Through Notes ---

How should you dress when you're giving a speech or presentation?
There's no one perfect thing to wear when you're giving a presentation.
The main thing is you do not want to confuse your audience, you don't want to distract your audience
and you want whatever it is you're talking about, your message to be amplified by what you're wearing.
So if you are a dairy farmer and you're giving a presentation on the dangers of mad cow disease, you
probably don't want to be seen in a banker's suit.
If you are an avant garde artist, you probably don't want to be seen in a boring, drab dress that
looks like it came from a 1980s Dress for success manual.
You need to have something that's consistent with what you're about.
Now, for example, most of my clients work for large corporations, large government organizations,
United Nations organizations, and they are in suits and ties or similar dress clothing if they are
women.
So when I'm giving a speech or speaking in video like this, I'm wearing a traditional, somewhat conservative
business suit, tie, French cuffs, the whole bit.
I do this because I don't want people wondering why is this guy in a tie dye shirt?
Is he going off to a party?
Is he.
I don't want to confuse people.
Now, it's not that you are going to love this tie.
This tie is specifically chosen to not stand out, to be muted.
It's that I don't want you to focus on what I'm wearing.
I want you to focus on what I'm saying.
So that's the rule of thumb.
When you are giving a presentation, you don't want people to notice what you're wearing.
And that means typically fitting in with how other people in your community, your business, your industry
are dressing.
And if you're going to vary maybe a notch or two above what everyone else is wearing, but not too many
notches above.
There have been times when I've been asked to do a speech or a training in front of a technical audience
at a high tech audience.
And I went there in a suit and tie and all of a sudden no one's wearing a suit or tie.
I quickly pull off the tie and throw the jacket and now I fit in.
So you've got to be ready to adapt.
And like it or not, you have to be where people are judging you based on what you wear doesn't mean
you always have to wear expensive clothes.
You do need to wear something that sends the right message that you're trying to convey.

--- How to to Use a Teleprompter Public Speaking ---

When you were speaking up at a meeting, it is absolutely critical that you appear to just be speaking
if you seem like you've memorized something and you're kind of following a script and you're not really
focusing on people, it's not going to seem like you're totally there.
It's not going to seem like you're incredibly confident.
It may seem a little artificial state.
Now, I'm not talking about it.
When you've been asked to give a 10 minute presentation, it's fine to be prepared for that, to have
notes, but to simply ask a question or to weigh in on a particular issue of the day that's being discussed
in your group.
You need to sound conversational.
You need to sound like you're thinking and talking at the same time.
Now, it's OK to have thought about the ideas that you want to convey in this meeting, whether it's
a dissenting opinion on a new product release, but it shouldn't sound memorized.
It shouldn't sound canned.
You need to sound like you're just thinking and talking the same as if you bumped into a colleague in
the hall, someone you've known and worked with for a long time, and you're having a casual conversation.
That's how you need to sound when you're talking in a meeting.
Now, this can be a major trade association meeting and there's two thousand people in the room and
you have to stand up for the microphone.
It's still going to come across better when you have it.
Completely conversational tone.
So that means don't try to memorize.
Now, the problem, of course, is it's easy for me to say this, but if you're already nervous about
public speaking, you're already nervous about speaking up at meetings.
The natural inclination is to try to give yourself a crutch, to give yourself cover.
And that can mean trying to give yourself a whole script that you're reading and hand holding up or
that you've memorized.
I'm warning you, don't do it.
It doesn't matter if you stumble over a word occasionally.
I've stumbled over words in nearly every lecture in this course, but I don't obsess over it.
I don't apologize.
I don't look like I'm ashamed or guilty.
And chances are you don't even notice it.
It's not important that your sentence structure is perfect, that your grammar is even perfect when
you're speaking.
People's ears don't catch mistakes the way their eyes do.
What is important is that people perceive you as just talking, thinking and talking and displaying
a confidence in your ideas.
That's what I want you to think about.
And confidence is where we're going next.

--- Make the Right Risk Assessment ---

How do you give an effective sales presentation?
At some level, every speech is a sales presentation, you're trying to sell something, you're trying
to sell an idea, it might not be trying to get money out of people, our new client or customer.
But you're always trying to sell something.
But let's say you are trying to sell concrete or a house or any other product or service.
The main thing you've got to realize is that you have to make this real.
You have to make it tangible.
People do not buy abstractions.
The number one problem most speakers have beyond data dumping is they are too abstract.
You've got to tell people exactly what they're getting, why they're getting and the benefits to them.
And the most effective way to do that is testimonials from satisfied customers, clients and really
walking them through how you've already changed people's lives with your product or service.
So sometimes the best way to speak is to let your customers speak for you.
The other thing you've got to do is realize you still have to ask people for their business.
Doesn't matter if you're trying to sell yourself as a candidate.
You have to ask for a vote if you want someone to buy your mutual fund or anything else at some point,
again, in a soft sell, non cheesy way, you need to let people know that you would be very happy to
do business with them and ask them for their business.
And I understand plenty of industries, especially financial service industries, are heavily regulated.
Always do what is legally required if you don't do anything that is even close to being a legal gray
area.
But to the extent that you can ask people to rectally for their business in a non pressure, non desperate
way, the better people like to be asked for their business.
And that is quite often the one thing people forget the most in their sales presentations.

--- How to Dress for a Speech Public Speaking ---

When you're speaking in a meeting, you are speaking to a crowd now, the crowd may be only two people,
but to you, if it's not one person, it's a crowd of sorts and it might make you uncomfortable.
Well, when you have a crowd, there is a crowd mentality.
So part of what's going on is people are looking around to see how other people feel about you, whether
they're aware of it or not.
And they're making judgments with a lot of different data.
One of the things they're judging is how you appear to feel about yourself.
If you're kind of awkward and timid and you end sentences with question marks, even though you're making
a statement that's going to send a message that you're scared, you're timid, you're uncertain of your
ideas since you doubt the value of your ideas.
Maybe they're not very good.
Therefore, why should the audience give your ideas credibility?
So I'm not suggesting you have to somehow be phony and do all this and put forth bluster, but you do
need to exude confidence when you speak confidence in your style.
Don't try to be me.
Don't try to be Ronald Reagan or Bill Clinton or Oprah Winfrey, although those three spoke with great
confidence and still do those who are alive.
It's got to be your own style.
But when I say confidence, all I really mean is your volumes loud enough to be heard because nervous
people kind of whisper because they're afraid.
If they say something stupid now and I'll hear it and it won't hurt as much, they won't look stupid.
So part of it is you have to speak loud enough for people to hear you.
And if you're in a room with 20 people, you're not going to have to yell.
But you are going to have to project a little louder than if you're talking to one person right here.
Another did.
A dead giveaway of lacking confidence is rushing these.
Me too quickly.
You speak too quickly.
People feel like, oh, I want to have and sit out.
Don't speak too quickly, don't rush at all.
Now, if you make a mistake, everybody makes mistakes.
Don't beat yourself up over.
Don't go.
Oh, 30 seconds ago I made a mistake.
I mispronounced dead.
I didn't tell anyone.
I didn't stop and say, oh my gosh, I made a mistake.
I just kept going.
I corrected myself the correct word, kept going, didn't wince, didn't looked embarrassed, didn't
do anything awkward.
And it becomes less noticeable.
People won't remember your mistakes, by and large, unless it's just a colossal error.
You say million and it's really billion and everyone knows the numbers.
A billion for the most part.
People don't notice your mistakes in what you say.
They notice your reactions to yourself.
So if you seem embarrassed or flustered or uncomfortable, if you seem like you think, oh, gosh,
I'm really sounding stupid up here, the audience pays off on that.
They figure, well, if he thinks he's sounding stupid and awkward, it seems like a smart guy.
If he thinks he's stupid and awkward, he must be stupid and awkward.
I therefore have a negative impression of this person.
Now, I'm not suggesting that every single person in your meeting is consciously thinking like that.
I'm suggesting a lot of it is unconscious.
A lot of it is in the gut.
So you have to be aware of that now as you start this whole process, as you go from not speaking at
meetings to speaking.
Yeah, it's only natural not to be incredibly confident.
So I'm going to teach you in a moment or so in the next lecture how to appear to be confident so that
we can at least trick these audience members like we're not trying to con them out of their money or
anything.
We just want them to focus on what you're saying in the meeting and not on the fact that you seem nervous
or scared and doing things like this, holding a pen, fiddling with it is a sure sign of nervousness.
Keep your hands free.
We want to appear to be calm, relaxed and having a good time when we're speaking out at this meeting.
So I need you to really give it as much thought to that and that more thought to that than what you're
actually saying?
No, I'm not saying that all that matters is how you look.
That's not it.
But they're both supremely important.
So you've got to learn how to look comfortable, confident, relaxed any time you're speaking at a meeting,
whether you're sitting down at a table with five people.
Or standing up in front of five hundred people, you need to look and sound relaxed, otherwise people
are going to be worried about you, focused on you.
Oh my gosh.
Is T.J. his voice cracking.
He seems so nervous.
You don't want people focused on your confidence level.
You want people focused on your ideas.
Now, here's the good news.
The more you do this, the easier it gets, the more confident you get.
A lot of things in life are not like that.
I can go out and play golf every week for years.
I'm still awful.
I'm still shooting one hundred and eighty and that's cheating.
I still can't hit wood.
There are plenty of things in life.
We're simply doing it more.
Doesn't make you any better.
Speaking at meetings is different.
It is one of those things where the more you do it, the easier it gets.
The harder it is to be nervous, the easier it is to be comfortable and therefore to do well.
So confidence is key.
Again, me saying that doesn't help yet, but I'm going to give you exercises in a moment.
That will help.

--- You Will Sound Natural and Relaxed ---

How do you give an effective motivational speech?
In a sense, giving a good motivational speech is one of the hardest things you can do because people
feel jaded.
Most people have heard so many motivational speakers over the years and after a while they all start
to sound the same.
If they haven't seen them in person, they've seen their infomercials.
The messages that come from most motivational speeches are the same work hard, set your goals, overcome
adversity, work every day on something you really believe in, pick something you have a passion for.
Associate with people who are already successful doing.
All of those are perfectly good rules, perfectly good axioms, but frankly don't mean much to people
who've heard them ten or a thousand times.
So if you want to stand out as an effective motivational speaker, it all comes down to your stores.
You've got to talk about how you personally did this.
You have to reveal things that involve pain for you.
You have to talk about how low you were before you overcame it.
And you have to give people a sense of how what you did is transferable to them.
It can't simply be.
I was having a tough day and had a hard time with my business.
I couldn't raise capital, but, oh, my daddy's a billionaire, so I got him to give me a check for
a million dollar.
That's not motivational.
That just creates envy.
Now, I don't want you and some people are guilty of this.
I don't want you to fabricate your biography and make yourself seem lower or more desperate than you
actually were.
But paint an accurate picture of where you were.
What's your problem was how you overcame it and then tie it together to how other people can do that
as well.
Now, this isn't my own situation, but I do know other public speakers and speaking experts who started
off stuttering in life.
So they went from speaking way, way below average to way above average.
And many prominent speakers in the world, Jesse Jackson, Joe Biden, the vice president, spent years
of their lives as stutterers.
So that's highly motivational.
When people hear that they can go to such high levels as speakers knowing they started so far below.
So figure out what's your story?
What have you truly overcome that motivates people?
If you're born with some rare gift and everything came easily to you might be interesting.
It's not particularly motivational.
People want to know how you overcame something adverse and how they can do the same thing.
What is your secret?
What's your unique twist beyond simply hard work and focus?

--- How to Give a Sales Presentation Public Speaking ---

I want to thank you for joining me for this course on how to speak up at meetings, if you've ever had
one interesting conversation with one person in your whole life, you already have all the skills you
need to speak up in any meeting, even if they are two thousand people in the room.
So focus, give it some thought and really think about how you can come across comfortable, confident,
relaxed.
The most important tip of all in this course practice speaking on video, things you might say in the
actual meeting not to memorize, but to just get comfortable speaking with how you come across.
And the final tip of all is try to speak out at every meeting, not to say something stupid, not just
to hear the sound of your own voice, but to add something of interest or to ask a question that perhaps
other people are thinking but are too timid to ask.
And this is one thing.
If you ever go to a major speech of someone famous or well known major convention, quite often there's
microphones in the rows next to the seats and only the first 10 people get to ask questions.
Don't wait for that nerve to come up and get ready and psyched up, because if you wait, then everyone
will be in front of you.
You won't have a chance to ask the question just before the speech even finishes.
Go up there be one of the first one or two or three people there.
So you can ask a question.
The more you ask questions in meetings, the more comfortable you'll get speaking up at any meeting
and the more you are going to impress people with your ideas and your leadership potential.
So good luck with all your future meetings and speaking out anywhere you please in life.
I'm T.J. Walker.
Thanks for being a part of this course.

--- The Ultimate Confidence Builder ---

So how do you sound conversational when you're giving a speech?
We've all heard speakers get up and it's sort of like, OK, class today we're going to go over the
following 12 people.
And it just sounds awful.
It's this elevated volume, somewhat monotone, and the speaker just sounds like they're reading off
a teleprompter in their brain.
So part of it is you got to sound like you're actually in the moment that what you're saying and what
you're thinking are in sync, because if you're constantly thinking about what you're going to say five
seconds from now, it can make you sound mechanical.
It can make you sound contrite, as if you've memorized something, even if you have it.
Now, this is yet another reason why I recommend not reading a speech, because it's virtually impossible
to sound conversational.
If you're reading a speech, it flattens you out.
This is why I recommend speaking from a set outline where you have just bullet points, three or four
words to remind you of what you want to talk about and then talk about it for a couple of minutes.
Part of it is just getting comfortable.
You need to rehearse, not to memorize, but to get comfortable with your content.
So when you're talking about it, you're not having to think about it.
Think about when someone's ask you, how did you meet your spouse or what's your favorite teacher?
If you're really young, you don't have to sit there and think about it for ten minutes.
You can just talk.
It's not that you say it word for word the same way every time.
But in general, you know what you're going to say because you've thought about it before and you've
said about it, you've said it before.
That way you can sound conversational.
Also, notice how I just messed up a second ago.
People do that in real life conversation all the time.
It's OK.
Don't beat yourself up.
Don't try to stop and edit it out and iron out all the imperfections.
Realize if you're going to give a speech and you're going to sound conversational, there will be occasional
mess ups.
There will be times when you start a sentence, stop and go in another direction.
There will be times when you have sentence fragments, you'll have repetition.
That's OK.
That's what makes you sound conversational.

--- How to Give a Motivational Speech Public Speaking ---

It's one of the most common questions I get, T.J., what do I do with my hands when I'm giving a presentation?
One of the worst myths out there is that somehow if you want to seem professional, you're not supposed
to move your hand.
So you end up seeing people holding their hands or fig leaf position in front of them or grabbing the
lectern.
This is horrible, horrible advice and a horrible overreaction to bad advice.
The thing to do with your hands when you're giving a speech is what you do all day long.
When you talk, you move your hands.
Now, some people, the movement is higher than others.
Some people it's lower.
You can't see my hands now, but they're moving.
But in my experience and working with more than 10000 clients from six continents over the last 30 years,
is that everywhere in the world when people are relaxed and comfortable and talking, their hands are
moving.
The second you stop moving your hands, you freeze your hands, you freeze your arms, your shoulders,
that gets into your vocal cords.
And next thing you know, you have that kind of contrived, phony, blah, blah, blah tone in your
voice.
Awful.
Now, in theory, is it possible to be gesticulating and waving your hands so wildly?
And it.
It's possible.
But all I can tell you with all the clients I've worked with over the years, I've never once had a
client who moved their hands so much it was distracting.
Now it is true, you see characters in sitcoms doing that, but you don't actually see people in real
life moving their hands in such a way that it's distracting.
So my advice is you want to move your hands comfortable, confident people move their hands when they
speak.
Here's the thing.
If you get up and speak and you've got a good speech, you're interesting and memorable and you're moving
your hands the whole time.
No one's going to come up to you afterwards and say, wow, Sally, I really love the way you move your
hands during that speech.
It's not going to affect them at the intellectual level, but at the gut level, people will feel like
you're simply more comfortable, confident, authoritative, relaxed.
They won't be able to put their finger on it, but they will perceive you as comfortable.
Whereas if you're holding your hands, holding paper in your hand, holding a pen, you're going to
look tense, nervous and uncomfortable.
So the thing to do with your hands is move them when you speak.

--- How to Sound Conversational in a Speech Public Speaking ---

How do you use a lectern or a podium when you speak?
First of all, electron is then you stand behind and you see people put their notes there, a podium
is actually the floor that you're standing on that's raised, but people call lecterns podiums.
In either case, my advice is avoid them like the plague.
Once you get behind the lectern, you've shut off your ability to communicate with your body language
to your audience.
You've isolated yourself.
It's as though you're now afraid of your audience and it tends to have you hunker down and destroy all
of your movement and sap the energy from you.
Yes, I know some of your favorite presidents speak behind lecterns and they can still do it effectively,
but I want to give you every possible advantage I can.
What advantages get away from the lecture now.
If you want a place to store your notes, that's fine.
But if this is the lectern here, instead of storing my notes like this, put it sideways.
So now I can be standing over here and looking at my notes occasionally and never get behind the lectern.
This way you can move in a natural way.
You can move right up to the front of your audience.
Doesn't matter if you're talking to ten people or ten thousand if you have a wireless microphone on,
you can walk around, you'll see more comfortable, confident, relaxed.
When people see someone get behind a lectern, they associate that with a really boring business presenter,
a boring college professor who's going to sit, read and just lecture to you.
Why do something?
Why take the position that people associate with really boring speakers?
So you want to use the lectern to put your glass of water or put your notes?
Fine.
Just don't stand behind it.
Stand as close to your audience as possible and move around.

--- Accomplish Your Goals in Every Presentation ---

Let's start at the very beginning, what is your goal of this presentation?
What is it you actually want this one person you're speaking to to do during or after your meeting,
after your presentation?
I know that sounds obvious, but too many people go into these one on one meetings with a general fuzzy
notion of, oh, I want this person to think I'm smart or I want this person to like me or I want this
person to think I know everything about this subject or about my startup.
You may want all of those things, but that is not your specific goal, is it?
Do you want them to hire you?
Do you want them to give you a contract?
Do you want them to give you money to invest?
Do you want an endorsement from them?
What is it exactly you want them to do?
So that's the first step.
I need you to write down ten words or less.
You're highly specific goal from this one on one presentation.

--- How to Use Body Language during a Speech Public Speaking ---

How to use body language when giving a speech.
Everyone has body language, uses body language, your audience is always going to be making judgments
about your body language, whether you like it or whether they're even aware of it.
So you have to come to grips with it.
Here's the real problem for most people, they are nervous, they're uncomfortable.
So they freeze or they think I'm supposed to be professional.
So let me stand here.
Feet planted, grabbing the lectern.
That's not professional.
It just makes you look scared.
Now, this is not complicated, folks.
You don't have to somehow learn a whole new language.
The biggest problem for most people is that they're outside of their comfort zone.
So they completely change their normal body language.
They just stop moving their feet, become rigid, planted on the floor.
Their hands become rigid.
They grab a and they grab a pen.
Their face becomes flat, their head stays straight or hunched.
And overall, they just stop moving.
That's unnatural.
That's not what people do when they are comfortable and they're talking.
So the real key to body language when you're giving a speech is you need to do the very same things
you do.
When you're speaking to two or three friends at a noisy restaurant and you're telling a story, you're
moving, you lean forward.
Sometimes your head tilts.
Sometimes you go back.
There's a full range of movement.
Your body is constantly I don't mean in a distracting way or a nervous way, but your body is moving
for the most part when you are talking and you were comfortable.
So the way to figure this out is you've got to practice, you've got to practice on video, because
if all you do is talk it out or look in the mirror, you're not really going to see how you're coming
across.
So my advice is practice your speech on video and then look and don't overcorrect.
Some people videotape themselves.
They see their hands moving in a completely normal way.
And their reaction is, oh, my God, I'm moving my hands.
I'm not supposed to be wrong.
You are supposed to move your hands.
Movement is good as long as you're not, you know, fidgeting, playing with a ring, pacing back and
forth awkwardly.
Most people their problem is not enough movement.
It's not that there's too much movement.
There's not enough movement that makes them look scared.

--- You Will Know How This Person Thinks ---

So you've got your goal, you know what the topic of the meeting is, what your presentation is about,
exactly what your goal is, we got to figure out now what messages are going to make the person come
to the conclusion we want them to.
What's going to make them do what we want?
Now, this is what's really different from speaking to large groups or even medium sized groups, because
when you're making a presentation to one person, you can really, really tailor your messages and what
you're going to talk about to them.
Part of it, as we'll talk about later, is by asking them questions and engaging in an actual conversation,
real dialogue in the meeting.
But part of it is simply doing your homework.
Of course, you need to go to their website.
You need to check out their LinkedIn profile, but you also need to Google them.
Look at any news story that's mentioned this person in the last six months or a year.
Find out where else they're mentioned, what other blogs have they been mentioned in and find out the
good, the bad, the dirty, the ugly, the successes.
Find out everything you can about this person so you can really tailor your messages to them.
So that's a huge part of the success of any one on one presentation is simply knowing more about the
person you're meeting with.
Now, if you've already talked to this person before, you should have a good sense of that.
Ideally, you took notes and you've entered that into a database somewhere in case you forgot or you
meet with a tremendous number of people, but don't hop right into your generic presentation.
That's the beauty of one on one pitches and presentations.
They don't have to be generic.
It can be highly, highly specific to that one person.
So if you're a politician, for example, and you're meeting one on one with someone who has the potential
to be a huge donor and, you know, this person has given millions of dollars to public schools and
public school funding is this person's pet issue.
You need to come in and really be able to talk, perhaps for the entire time about your platform on
public schools and perhaps not talk about your foreign policy and everything you're going to do for
other infrastructure issues.
You've got to really tailor, but you can't do that in the abstract.
So that's why I need you to spend some time really researching this person, try to find out their hobbies,
try to find out the issues they care about.
The more information you know about the person you're presenting to, the more confidence you'll have,
the more ways you can tailor the information you have to that person in a way that's relevant to them.
So that's what you've got to do right now.
Do some research, find out every place this person's been mentioned in the news, start to put together
a profile of this person.
What is it that this person thinks about, is worried about, is concerned about, has an interest in
that overlaps with your area of expertise and what you want to talk about.
Start compiling that right now.
You don't have to write a big fifty page brief on him, but just put as many notes, as many facts as
you can possibly find on the person in a single sheet of paper or right there on your computer.

--- How to Make a Toast Public Speaking ---

So what's the secret to delivering a toast?
Cheers now a toast seems.
Simple, but it's a type of speech, it's a type of public speaking and let's face it, public speaking
makes people nervous so they go out of their way to avoid it.
And it's sad because there may be important moments in your family's life that you would like to commemorate
with the toast.
People overcomplicate this.
They think they have to have something wildly witty and some old Irish saying and three quotes here
and get all sorts of laughter and to memorize something or they want to print something out of a toast
book and try to read it in the dim rest.
You don't need any of that.
Instead, just focus on the person you're toasting or the one idea and think of one positive thing to
say.
Say it with a smile on your face.
Say it as if this was a joyous occasion and in fact should be, and then raise your glass.
It's really that simple.

--- Using Alcohol to Calm Your Nerves before a Speech Public Speaking ---

OK, you have to give that big presentation after dinner, is it OK for you to take that glass of wine
or that shot of Snopes to calm you down before your presentation?
Folks, I'm not trying to turn you into a teetotaller or remove fun from your life, but here's the
problem with having even a glass or two of wine or beer before you're giving a speech, you may think
it's calming you down.
It may make you feel calm for the moment.
But here's the problem.
Alcohol can slow your brain down even a little bit.
If you're nervous, you're already having a harder time recalling information, pulling out what you
planned on, saying if you have alcohol in you, it can slow you down another half second.
But that can seem like five seconds when you're standing up in front of people that can actually make
you more nervous.
This inability to pull out certain facts or numbers that you wanted to hit in your presentation.
So I would not recommend drinking any alcohol before you give a speech.
The other problem is for some people that can make them read other people, it could make them overheated,
even a glass or two.
And that little bit of shine perspiration can make you look like you're more nervous than you are.
Finally, if you are the main speaker after dinner, people are coming up to you afterwards.
They may want to say great speech or they enjoyed your book or they loved hearing about your company.
They may have been drinking wine all night long.
Fine, but you're sort of a celebrity at that moment.
You're the one they saw to speak.
So if they come up to you, shake your hand, they're now going to be this close to you.
If they smell alcohol on your breath, it may be the most memorable thing about the whole meeting.
So I would caution you against drinking any alcohol when you're giving a speech or presentation now
after the presentation.
Well, live it up.

--- Top 5 Messages Part 2 ---

Now, let me give some even greater clarification on messages and why it's so important to narrow it
down to the top five.
The reason I say five is that I've interviewed audiences all over the world to tell me about the best
presenter, speaker, talker they've ever heard from big large keynote speeches to one on one meetings.
And here's what I find consistently, is people don't remember that much about the best talker they've
been in front of.
Sometimes they remember one point two or three, occasionally four.
Every six months, somebody will remember five points from the best talker they've been in front of.
I've never had anyone remember more than five key points from the best keynote speaker at the biggest
convention or the best talker they met with trying to sell them something or present something.
So that's why I'm begging you.
You can disregard a lot of what I say, but you will really harm yourself, your chances of communicating.
If you go into a one on one presentation with this idea that you're going to communicate every single
thing about your company or about your skill set or your resume.
Less is more.
You've got to narrow it down to your top five points.
I don't mean less is in the more in the sense that try to finish your whole meeting in three minutes
at the person walked out of half an hour for you.
It's not that I want you to rush.
It is that I want you to focus your time on a handful of key points that are important to you are interesting
to this one person you're meeting with.
And here's the key thing.
It shouldn't be just interesting to the person, but also be something that motivates them to want to
do what you ask them to do.
There's a lot of things that could be interesting to people in the world.
But if, for example, you're trying to get them to give you three million dollars to invest in your
mutual fund or your hedge fund, a lot of interesting that you can talk about how you sold lemonade
when you were six years old.
That may or may not motivate them to want to give you money to invest.
So you've got to be very selective in what you decide to focus on.
So that's your challenge.
Now, I need you to go back to your five message points, apply greater scrutiny to them, and make
sure you don't have five big themes or the idea of trying to cram in twenty five different sub points
underneath each message.
That's not what I'm talking about, because then we're really back to trying to communicate fifty ideas.
That doesn't work well in one on one meetings.
If somebody really wants to know more, then you can always email them or hand out a big thick PDF or
a book or an e-book or other materials.
You can always give more.
But your first challenge is getting this person's appetite to want more of you, to want more of your
expertise.
Whatever it is you do, you need them to have a strong sense of what's special about you, unique about
your skill set, valuable to them.
Let's focus on just a handful first.
We can always add on, but if you just try to get them everything up front and they are sort of drowning
in this sea of data and they don't know how to compare you to perhaps 50 other companies or individuals
that are meeting with you are going to get lost.
So double check your messages, make sure that they're genuinely important to you.
Interesting and important to this one person you're meeting with.
By the way, if you're having a whole series of one on one meetings, you're going to do it right.
You need to change every single time, at least part of it, to personalize your meeting based on the
concerns of this person.
Now, sometimes you're meeting people where their profile is exactly the same and you don't have to
do much change.
But it's much personalization on your messaging as possible is always going to be best.
So go back to your messages, tweak them, make sure they're really solid.

--- Taking Beta-Blockers to Calm Your Nerves Public Speaking ---

Should you take beta blockers to calm your nerves before giving a big speech or presentation?
Folks, there is a class of drugs known as beta blockers, any physician can prescribe them, they don't
get you high, but they do keep you from being tensed up.
They can help with nerves.
I have had clients who felt like they were so nervous, there was simply no way they could get through
a national TV appearance without beta blockers.
I do not recommend taking beta blockers.
If you're nervous about how you're presenting, it may be with good reason.
It may be that you're Boehringer.
You haven't really thought of good ideas and good examples and good stories.
The way to get over that is not to mask the feeling with a drug, but it's to actually make sure you
have a good speech, a good presentation.
So you should start by rehearsing on video.
Think of it this way.
If I'm going to a photo shoot today and I don't bother shaving half of my face and I don't bother washing
my face and I have coffee stains and jelly stains across my face, is the answer for me to take a drug,
to feel better and feel like I'm good looking, or is the answer to actually take a shower, shave,
look in the mirror and be able to see, OK, I'm now presentable.
So that's my problem with the whole beta blocker thing.
It's it's not dealing with the real problem.
The real problem is not how you feel.
The real problem is do you actually have an interesting, compelling, memorable presentation?
Because if you feel like you're great and relaxed, but you're still awful and boring and unmemorable,
so what, you're still awful boring and memorable.
So take my advice.
Do not spend time tracking down doctor's going to pharmacies, getting beta blockers.
Spend your time coming up with an interesting presentation, rehearsing and making sure it's good.

--- Notes ---

So you've come up with your top five messages.
I would also recommend that we flesh it out and really come up with a script for this meeting.
However, here's what's different about a script for a one on one meeting versus standing up and giving
a speech.
If you're giving a speech, it's perfectly fine to have notes to look at.
You may use a PowerPoint.
I would not recommend using notes for a one on one meeting.
If you want to use a PowerPoint, that's a separate issue.
Whatever you do, don't read PowerPoint.
People hate it any time.
They really hate it and one on one meetings.
But the reason I want you to come up with notes and more of a script is not that you're going to memorize
it and not that you're going to have it in front of you in a meeting with a kind of silly having a whole
bunch of notes for a one on one meeting.
Unless you're president of the United States and you're having 20 meetings a day, that's a different
issue.
But for most of us in the business world, the nonprofit world, the political world, you need to be
looking at the person the whole time.
That's why you shouldn't have notes.
However, when I have found is that the sheer act of writing down notes, whether you're doing longhand
or typing it brings clarity to the mind.
It's going to make it easier for that to come out when you're actually speaking.
So that's why I want you to come up with sort of a finished structure.
It doesn't have to be all written.
That word for word doesn't have to be in full paragraph form.
But your main ideas, any example, any story, anything you want to really make it come alive, I need
you to put it on the sheet of paper so that you can be looking at it before the meeting starts.
Don't have it out once the meeting begins.

--- How to Deal with People Texting during Your Speech Public Speaking ---

Hi there.
Be with you in a minute.
Just texting, guess what, if you're a speaker and you're talking to more than five people, there
is a real danger that they're going to be people texting in your audience.
And, hey, we've all done it.
I confess I've done this.
But when you're the speaker, it's wildly distracting and it's insulting.
And there's a very real danger that if several people in your audience feel it's OK to text and they're
texting, it can spread, it can be contagious.
So I recommend that you not simply ignore it.
Now, you don't want to run around pulling phones out of people's hands or yelling at them or being
confrontational because people really don't like that.
That will make you detested by the audience, certainly the people you've picked on.
But I also think if you just ignore it, you're sending a message to everyone else in the audience.
Hey, folks, what I'm saying really isn't particularly important or interesting.
So there what Jim's doing over here, text multitask, do your grocery list.
I don't care.
I'm not really saying anything.
You don't want to send that message.
So what I do and I typically when I'm speaking to smaller groups, I had them in a semicircle where
everyone's in the front row so I can see people.
So I use several strategies.
Number one, I'll just walk right over to that person and talk to the person on the other side of the
room.
So I don't look like I'm being confrontational, but simply getting close to that person quite often
will make them embarrassed and will put their phone away.
Another technique is if I see that Sam over here is on his cell phone texting, I'll go to the other
side of the room and say, yeah, Sam was saying to me during the break, he has this experience where
so now I'll reference him by name.
I'm not calling him out.
I'm not chastising him.
I'm not in any way being rude, but I mention him by name.
And quite often that will be enough.
If they're talking about me, I better pay attention.
They'll put their phone away.
So there are a number of techniques.
There are times when I will simply call on them.
How many of this how many of you have had this happen to you, Sam?
Has that ever happened to you?
So now they're having to look up, answer the question.
You want to condition your audience to pay attention to you?
I believe great speakers are jealous.
They are jealous of their audience's attention, and you should want people focused on what you're saying,
not sending text, but you can't act angry or annoyed or it's going to make you look petty and mean
you don't want that either.

--- 20 Questions ---

Do you remember as a kid when you had a family member perhaps shouting at a parent saying, I'm tired,
you've given me 20 questions, what's with the whole 20 questions asked?
Well, guess what?
Now it's your turn.
I need you to actually prepare 20 questions that you want to ask this person you're presenting to and
write them down.
What are the questions that you would ask if you were going to do this as a structured interview?
Now, you're not going to treat it like an interview.
This is you presenting to them.
However, the more you can engage them, the more you can get them talking generally, the smarter they
will think you are.
I know this firsthand from my own new business pitches.
The more I can get my prospect to talk, the less I talk.
Quite often, the smarter they think I am and the more likely they are to hire me.
So I need you to plan.
So questions, whatever it is you do, your area of expertise, ask them about how they already do it,
what are their challenges, what do they think would be the ideal world, the ideal scenario if everything
could happen the way they wanted to based on the things you do.
So I want you to write down 20 questions or type 20 questions.
It's not that you're going to ask all of these, but the sheer fact that you've thought about these
will make it easier.
When the conversation goes in a certain area or you can see them, you look skeptical or their eyes
light up.
You can then follow up in a way that seems organic, that seems natural and spontaneous.
To ask that question now, it will be spontaneous because it's not you following a set script, but
it's going to be easier for you to have that question come out of your mouth because you already thought
about it.
You've planned it.
You've given it some contemplation.
So that's what I want you to do right now, is write down 20 questions that you might like to ask this
person, these certainly questions that then lead you to your strengths, what it is you do, how you
might solve their problems, all of your other messages.
So, again, you're not memorizing the questions.
You're certainly not going to walk in with a big sheet of paper and be quite reading questions off of
them.
But you are going to have it in your mind thinking about it and ready to throw ones out when appropriate.
So write down not one or two or three, but at least 20 questions.

--- How to Move around while Making a Speech Public Speaking ---

What's the most effective way to move around the stage when giving a presentation?
First of all, if you want to be a great speaker, you cannot simply stand behind a lectern like a potted
plant.
You need to move.
But not all movement is the same.
Some speakers move, but they're going back and forth like a tiger who is ready to pounce on prey or
they're going back and forth like an expectant father in a sitcom at the maternity ward.
When you move, it can't be too consistent.
You can't be like the grandfather clock you.
When you move, you need to move with purpose.
There needs to be variety in your movement.
It can't be in the same plane.
It needs to be front back sideways in the aisles, occasionally higher or lower.
And when you're making an important point, don't move at all.
It draws more attention to your words.
So the key is variety, moving faster, slower, front stage, back stage, sometimes in the aisle,
and to always move with a purpose.
To not seem like you're just randomly moving around out of nervous energy, if you do that, you create
a lot more variety for your audience, it's more interesting to them.
You see great rock stars doing this and now stages for rock concerts are being built.
So they jut way out into the audience so the rock stars can move.
More and more people can get a front row seat.
So there's more variety.
It's variety for the ear because you will sound different to your audience when you're at different
parts of the stage or the room.
So you do want to move.
Is it the end of the world if you don't move now?
But it's so much more engaging for the audience.
Plus you keep them alive, you keep them awake, especially if it's a large group and you can walk out
in the aisles.
I've seen John Chambers do this, the well-known tech CEO, he may start in the back of the room.
He's in the middle or it doesn't matter.
There's 5000 people there.
You go down the rows, the aisles, and you can engage with people and make the whole thing seem personal.
You can't do this if you're just standing in one spot on the stage.

--- Stories ---

The number one thing people remember from any presentation, whether it's a one on one presentation
or ten thousand people are in the room and it's a speaker up on a stage, the number one thing people
remember, the stories, stories are the ultimate example.
People do not remember facts delivered in a straightforward way.
Now, this is one reason why a lot of people feel they are much better in one on one presentations than
they are so-called formal presentations standing up in front of people, because a lot of people are
comfortable giving case studies, example stories, talking to one person, and they don't feel comfortable
doing that to large groups.
Well, that's a problem for them.
You don't have that problem.
If you normally tell a story, tell stories in your one on one presentations, anything.
That is a message that's important to you.
You need to have stories, examples, case studies that will flesh out that story.
Now, here's where the skill comes in place.
It's not just you following a set script.
It's more like if you remember the old timey jukeboxes, you've got A seven, B to C three.
You've got all these different options.
Some may be in the genre of all these and some may be in the genre of hard rock, but you've got a lot
of different choices.
So this is where the more you know about the person you're meeting and the more you get them to ask
questions or to answer your questions, that's where you can tailor.
So, for example, if I'm meeting with a prospect who is interested in hiring me for public speaking
training, I might ask them, is there anything that makes you uncomfortable when you speak?
And there's usually a range of responses.
Sometimes it's when I speak to large audiences, if that's it, then I have a whole series of anecdotes
and I can talk about specific clients and how they have exactly the same problem and how I solved it.
Sometimes people say, well, I am completely relaxed that a large group, I just I feel like that's
a piece of cake.
I get nervous when I'm speaking to five colleagues on the Monday morning staff meetings.
Well, that's something I've heard thousands of times, too.
So I'll pull out very specific examples and stories of clients I've helped with.
Their concerns were how I videotape them, rehearse them, coach them and got them to the point where
they were equally as comfortable speaking to large audiences and small audiences.
So that's what's critical for you.
You've got to have real life stories, case studies, successful examples of what it is you do, because
that's what sticks in people's memories.
Otherwise, it's just abstract.
And they may be meeting with five other people who do what you do.
And let's face it, some fields are harder to differentiate than others.
If you're selling insurance services, financial management services, a lot of those things blur together
after a while and are seen, rightly or wrongly, as commodities by certain customers.
So you've got to flesh it out in a meaningful way that can be remembered.
So any important point that you want people to remember, it is important to really flesh that out in
a way that they can't forget.
I know that firsthand because there are a lot of people who are presentation coaches and sometimes people
just assume, well, it's because you're naturally gifted at it and you're always articulate.
And at some level it's hard to learn.
And I only stress that, no, that's not it at all.
I was not born a good speaker, but that was pretty shy and I had to learn lessons the hard way.
I remember once I was going on a talk radio show more than 20 years ago and the host asked me my opinion
on a particular presidential candidate running.
I gave the opinion and he said, Mr. Walker, I have more respect for a Klansman than I do for you.
And he pulled the microphone right out of my hand.
That's a bit shocking.
Now, down in South Florida, it's a talk radio show.
Nobody can see me, but I'm pulling the microphone back.
Yeah.
Yeah, but Mr. Stick, what I really think if I could say anything else, this host, Mr. Stic reaches
under the table, pulls out a gun and pointed at me.
Now, do you see my point, Mr. Walker?
You know what I said?
That nothing, not much of anything came out finally.
Gurgled, so it was not my finest moment, was not my best one on one presentation, but you know what?
I did get through the interview, he didn't shoot me.
The good news is every interview I've ever done since has been a piece of cake.
I even went back to that radio station two weeks later and guest hosted other talk radio shows.
Now, I stayed away from that host, but I did go back because I like speaking.
I like helping other people speak.
And I don't let one bad situation or experience ruin it for me.
And I've been speaking and helping people speak ever since.
So what did I just do there?
I just told a little story.
It took less than two minutes, but I was trying to flesh out my point that, hey, your presentation
coach wasn't born perfect, knowing how to speak.
It's a learned skill and that I happen to have a real commitment to it.
And that's how I've learned a lot and how I can possibly help you.
That's the message I was trying to convey.
But if I had just said it in a straightforward way in ten seconds, it wouldn't be remembered.
Whereas I have clients who I haven't seen in 15 years, I bump into them and they'll say it.
D.J. had more guns pulled on you.
It sticks in their memory.
By the way.
It's a true story to your stories.
Don't have to be as dramatic as someone pulling a gun on you.
They do need to be true and they need to have a few basic elements of introduce a character.
What's the setting?
What's the problem?
How did you feel?
What did that client or customer colleague say to you?
What did you say back?
That's it.
All of us tell stories all the time, all day long.
We do it with friends, family, colleagues we're comfortable with.
We do it over the phone, one on one in the hallways.
But there's something about us.
When we get into something that feels formal, we often stop telling the stories.
Well, don't do that.
You want to tell that story.
Now, if this is a meeting with a really important customer who is well known in the industry and you've
never met before and they're wildly successful and they're a billionaire, I understand the temptation
is to think if this is really formal, you stiff it up.
Well, it's not formal to them.
They just want to hear something interesting.
So you don't want to be formal in a way that seems stuffy or flat or stodgy or boring.
Now, if you don't really wear flip flops every day and cut off shorts because you work at home and
now you're meeting with this person in a big fancy office, and this person is going to be in an expensive
suit.
Well, I'm not suggesting you just show up in your flip flops and cut off shorts.
Certainly you may dress in a formal way, but how you speak should be conversational and interesting.
I've never once heard anyone, whether their audience of a thousand people listening to someone speak
or talking to one person.
I've never heard anyone say, wow, I really am glad this person was formal with me today.
I've heard people say, I'm glad this person was interesting.
I've heard them say I can't stand the fact that this person board the what out of me.
But I've never heard anyone specifically request that someone be formal.
So let's come up with our stories for each one of our message points.
That's your homework.
Now, look at your outline that you have and write down a couple of words to remind you of the relevant
story for each one of your message points.

--- If my allotted time is cut, what should I eliminate Public Speaking ---

What do you do if you have been told you have to give a 30 minute presentation, you're about to stand
up and the organizer says, hey, we're running late instead of 30 minutes, speak for just 15 minutes.
Classic dilemma when your time is cut short.
Here's what most people do, they speak twice as fast and they throw away all their interesting examples,
case studies and stories, and they waste a lot of time saying, I know I can speak really quick because
I don't have a lot of time.
They tell me to make this fast.
So I'm not going to be able to cover all my.
And they waste time talking about their time.
Huge mistake.
Never talk about the time you have or the lack of time or how you thought you had more time.
Simply use the time you have for maximum effect.
Use every second to put a spotlight on an idea that's important to you, that's also important to your
audience.
And if you had 30 minutes of material planned and now you have 15, you need to chop in half the number
of key points you were trying to convey, because it does absolutely no good whatsoever to strip away
the examples, case studies and stories for your points just to cover more points, because no one's
going to remember the points yet.
They're that important.
Give them the PDF, give them handouts, give them a whole book if you want.
But don't try to speak quickly at an abstract level, doing a data dump, use your normal tone of voice,
your normal speed, just do fewer points and flesh out each one with stories and case studies.
And this way they may even ask you to spend more time talking.
If not, people will go out of their way to try to get your PDF, your PowerPoint presentation, or
go to your website to find out more information.
You can give a great presentation regardless of the time limitations given you, even if it's a last
minute change.

--- Conclusion to One On One Speaking ---

Thanks for being a part of this course on how to give one on one presentations if you follow the exercises
we've talked about and actually video recorded yourself in the way I suggested congratulations.
You are in good shape now if all you've done is watch the videos for me.
Thanks for watching.
But you're not really ready to give the presentation yet.
You half, I beg you, ignore a lot of my advice here, but do not give a one on one presentation until
you've practiced it on video until you like it.
That's the number one tip of this entire course.
So if you do that, you will be in good shape.
I wish you your best.
I know that if you've done what you're supposed to do, you now know how to look comfortable, confident
and relaxed for these one on one presentations.
You're going to be understood.
You're going to be remembered because you have good, interesting examples and case studies and stories.
And finally, there is a great chance that the person you're presenting to is going to take the actions
you want because you will have communicated congratulations and good luck with all your one on one presentations.

--- Should I warn my audience I will be boring Public Speaking ---

Should you warn your audience if you're going to be covering boring material?
No, no, no, don't do that, you'd be giving them an excuse to tune out, start reading, email it.
First of all, it's your job to figure out what is interesting and important in this presentation.
Then you've got to bring it to life.
You can't give yourself an easy out.
I know.
This is going to be boring.
No one's going to say, well, at least he told us it was boring.
Therefore, it's OK that he was boring.
You can make any subject matter in the world interesting or boring.
It's your choice.
Your audience is going to hold you accountable either way.

--- What if You are asked a question You Can't Answer Public Speaking ---

Oh, no.
What if I'm asked a question by an audience member and I can't answer it?
This is one of the most common fears speakers have all over the world, and it's a legitimate fear,
if I'm speaking to a thousand people often ask people how many of you fear not being able to answer
a question, it's happened to you or you've seen other people not be able to answer a question at the
end of a presentation.
And it was embarrassing.
And out of a thousand people, sure enough, 300 hands will go up.
So it is a real problem.
But I always ask another question and I say, how many of you have seen someone present?
And they were so incredibly boring and unmemorable that you didn't remember anything they said five
minutes later, show of hands.
Guess how many hands went up?
Not 300 all 1000 hands went up, so I say this to remind you to focus on the far greater problem, the
far greater danger for most people is not that you're asked a question and you don't know the answer.
The far greater danger for most of us is we give a boring presentation and people forget what we're
going to say.
So make sure you have an interesting presentation.
Now, when it comes to the questions, quite often it's not the fact that you don't know the answer
that gets you into trouble.
It's your reaction, your embarrassment.
It's like it's becomes the most memorable moment of the entire presentation.
You looking flustered, you looking scared.
So No.
One, I certainly hope you know the answers to those questions you get.
But if someone does ask you a question, don't act bothered by it.
Simply say Smithers in our accounting department will know that I can find that to you and send it to
you within the hour.
Or they're asking a question that's unknowable and you simply bridge to something that's relevant,
that is knowable, or you'd say, I don't know, and you bridge to something else that is in some way
relevant.
The key is you can't ask flustered.
You can't act as though you just got caught with your pants down.
You have to look and sound relaxed and confident at all times.

--- What is the outcome you want from your presentation Public Speaking ---

So you've decided you've got to give a speech, where do you start before you start practicing outloud
or videotaping yourself or just writing and writing, I want you to step back for a minute and really
ask yourself, what is the desired outcome of your presentation?
You're not just speaking for the fun of it.
Presumably you're not just speaking to tell people every single thing you've done in the last quarter
what you know on a subject.
So you've got to really step back.
This is critical and ask yourself what is the desired outcome?
What do I want my audience to do after listening to me?
Until you've answered that question, you are frankly wasting your time on creating bullet points or
brainstorming or doing more research.
So that's the first step.
What is the outcome you want from your audience?

--- A Positive Attitude for Public Speaking Public Speaking ---

Just having a positive attitude really help when it comes to public speaking skills.
Folks, I got to tell you, I'm not a big fan of the secret, I'm not a big fan of those people who
visualize your success and feel good.
You're going to be rich and famous.
But public speaking actually is one of the few things in life where simply having a positive attitude,
simply acting like you're great, helps.
Now, you and I can go out on the golf course today and I can say, well, I'm going to be like Tiger
Woods.
I'm going to hit a hole in one after hole than one.
I'm going to get out there or chank.
Oh, hook, oh, slice.
I'm going to shoot one hundred and eighty.
And that's cheating.
My attitude is going to have absolutely no impact on my golf game because I lack certain fundamental
skills and I'm not very good at golf.
Public speaking is different.
It's one of the few things in life.
Or simply acting upbeat, acting like you're having fun helps all great speakers.
When you see them in action, you get the sense that they are having the time of their life.
Zig Ziglar, when he was over 80 years old, you saw him speaking and he seemed like a man half his
age.
Bill Clinton, Ronald Reagan, Rudy Giuliani.
When you see him speaking, we're not talking politics here all across the spectrum.
When you see them speaking, they look like they're having so much fun.
They would be paying you for the right to speak if you weren't already paying them a fortune.
So it's hard thing to fake.
I understand that.
But you've got to get yourself psyched up because simply by acting like you're having fun telling yourself
this is good.
I hate to sound like Stuart Smalley or the old Saturday Night Live character Al Franken, but it really
is true with public speaking.
Just acting like you're having fun, acting like you're good, smiling a little does rub off on the
audience.
There is a crowd psychology.
The more they sense that you're having fun, that you feel like you're good, the more your audience
will actually feel like you're good.
So attitude isn't everything when it comes to speaking, but it does help a great deal.

--- Brainstorm Every Topic and Message for Your Speech Public Speaking ---

The next step in preparing your presentation is you've got to brainstorm on all the ideas you want to
communicate to your audience.
I do not recommend that you sit down and just try to type a 20 page speech.
For some people, it's easier to sort of sit back, relax, have a notepad.
You may want to take notes on your iPhone, your iPad.
It doesn't really matter.
But rather than thinking in terms of entire paragraphs and flow, just brainstorm ideas and ideas,
something you should be able to communicate in 10 seconds or less, ten words or less.
Just start brainstorming on every idea on this topic that you might want to communicate to the audience.
Don't check things off, don't scrutinize it.
Don't be critical.
Just dump it all out there.
That is the next step.
Until you do that, you haven't really done your due diligence.
And there's the danger.
You're in the middle of the speech and you're thinking, hmmm, I wonder if I should put this idea in
or what about that?
You don't want to be thinking on your feet.
You want to think on your seat when there's no one around.
So go into this brainstorming mode of thinking of every possible idea you can come up with.

--- Can Public Speaking be learned or is it natural born Public Speaking ---

Is public speaking one of these skills you just had to be born with?
No, no, no, it's not a skill you're born with, nobody's born knowing how to speak any more, any
more than anyone born knowing how to be a great writer.
People only become great writers after years and years and years of learning how to write A, B, C,
and getting instruction and feedback on a continual basis.
Now, the good news about public speaking is most people never get any training on how to be a good
speaker.
So it only takes a little bit of improvement to really stand above most other people when it comes to
public speaking.
Now, if you doubt me about whether this is genetic or born versus a learned skill, just look at history.
For example, Martin Luther King Jr., Rush Limbaugh, two people, polar opposites of the political
spectrum.
Both rose to great prominence based on their ability to speak, to speak well and to speak to large
audiences.
Guess what they both had in common?
They both, when they took a public speaking course in college, got the great C.
Completely average.
See, I mean, that's pretty lame when you think about it, and this is not a small children.
This is when they are 18, 19, 20 years old.
So it is a skill that people learn and they can actually learn at any age in life.
John F. Kennedy was considered a horrible public speaker when he was a member of the United States Congress
back in the 50s.
He would go around, speak head buried, reading awful.
And yet he grew to be a good public speaker.
So if you think you're not born with a talent, get over it.
This is not one of these things that require certain genetic abnormalities to be great.
You know, if you want to be Michael Phelps and swim at that level, it helps to have a really set of
short legs, proportionately long torso and feet that bend in really odd ways.
Now, you and I can't do that.
Michael Phelps.
Yeah, he works hard.
He trains hard, but he has certain genetic advantages that make him a world class swimmer.
You don't need anything like that to be a world class public speaker.
So all you need is a desire, the willingness to practice, the willingness to practice on video and
putting time into it.
And you can become a world class speaker.

--- What is Your Water Cooler Message Public Speaking ---

What is the watercooler message for your speech, your presentation?
It's the first thing I asked my clients before they get up to speak during a day of training, I say
timeout.
What's your water cooler message?
And typically they'll say, well, T.J., I have the following seven points on my app.
That's not a water cooler message by water cooler.
I mean, how would someone who is listening to you not taking notes, but paying attention, how would
someone listening to you actually describe what your whole speech was about to someone at the water
cooler later that afternoon or the lunchroom or the water cooler the next day?
How would they actually describe it in the way a real person talks?
Most people have an extraordinarily difficult time conceptualizing how other people will talk about
their presentation.
This is a crucial step.
If you don't have this, then you're kind of lost.
Now, for example, I'm giving you a series of dozens and dozens and dozens of videos here on how to
be a better speaker.
But I'm hoping that if you watch every single one and someone said, hey, what did you take away from
this T.J. characters video series on public speaking?
I'm hoping what you tell people is, you know, what's really important is Neroni speech down to a handful
of your five best ideas, have a story for each one.
And most important practice on video until you like your speech.
If you forget everything else I've said, if you remember that and you're telling people at the WaterCooler,
that's the message, then I've succeeded.
How do you define your own success?
You cannot be successful unless you know in advance the watercooler message.
You want people saying about your speech.

--- How to Make Prepared Remarks as Good as Your Q and A Public Speaking ---

So what do you do if you're bad at getting a prepared speech, but great at Q&amp;A?
First of all, the reason that you're perhaps bad at giving a prepared speech and good a Q&amp;A is that
your prepared speech is prepared poorly.
It's a boring data dump.
When you are answering questions, the Q&amp;A section of your presentation, it's unlikely that you're
just giving a boring data dump.
You're probably looking at the person being animated, answering the question at some level, being
specific, giving a case study, a story, an example to flesh out your point, to make it relevant,
to make it real.
Well, guess what?
That's what your speech should be.
Some one solution is the next time you have to give a speech, throw away your prepared speech.
Just have a transcript of your last Q&amp;A session.
Let that be your speech.
Interview yourself, ask yourself your questions and then give your own interesting answer.
There should never be a time when your Q&amp;A is better than your prepared speaking remarks, because if
it is, something is out of whack with how you've prepared your speech.
So anything you're doing well in Q&amp;A, not only can you, but you should be doing in your actual prepared
remarks.

--- You Must Communicate with the Head and the Heart Public Speaking ---

When you're coming up with a message for your speech, your presentation, you constantly have to look
at it from two tracks.
How are you connecting with people, appealing to people with their head at the head level, the intellectual
level?
And how about at the heart level?
How are you connecting at the emotional level?
You've got to have ideas that do both.
Now, if all you do is communicate emotionally, then maybe you're a demagogue.
If all you do is communicate at the intellectual level, then chances are it may fall flat unless someone
is a student in your classroom.
But great communicators consistently communicate at both the head and heart level.
So when you're coming up with your messages and that's why there's the importance of stories and examples,
you always have to be thinking about communicating on these two tracks, the head and the heart.

--- Have a Public Speaking Improvement Plan Public Speaking ---

Public speaking is like any other skill in life, you're either making it better or worse, it's very
unlikely you're going to stay at the exact same level.
My advice for you would be have specific goals for yourself, have specific improvement plans if you're
used to speaking in front of 50 people.
But once a year, you could speak at your national trade show or your national sales convention in front
of 500 people and you're a little bit scared.
Start doing the things now to prepare you to speak in that venue.
Always look for something that's the next level up.
Doesn't matter where you are in the speaking world, there's always something that is a notch or two
above.
So start planning now.
Start preparing, hold yourself accountable.
Doesn't matter how long you've been doing this, you need to record every speech you give and watch
it so you can figure out what are you doing well, so you can do it more.
Sometimes it's one tiny little thing, but over time it is huge.
It's quite significant to make small, tiny, incremental improvements.
Also, you need to create a database of speakers you admire and respect so you can learn from that these
days with Apple TV, Internet, TV, I find it's frankly more relaxing and more interesting to just
flip on TED talks and watch great speakers that it is some lame sitcom for entertainment.
I always learn something, even if it's a speaker or I'm not fascinated by the subject matter.
You can always learn something about their style, their technique, their visuals, their interaction,
their movement.
So if you want to be a great speaker, it has to become a life long passion.

--- Convincing Voters that You Have a Great Reason to Run for Office ---

So why are you running for public office?
Sounds like an obvious question, but many people who run for office can never really answer that or
answer it in a compelling way.
That's interesting or memorable to the voters.
You've got to have a good clear cut answer to that.
Now, you may have many, many reasons.
You may have a lifelong interest in civic affairs.
It may be a good time for you financially.
Your kids have moved away and gone to college.
None of that matters to voters.
You've got to quickly learn how to differentiate between private information.
That's interesting, relevant to you family, friends versus public information.
And you've got to be selective.
So if you're running for school board and the main thing you're worried about is violence in schools
or reading scores, then talk about that one thing and really hit it home.
Focus on that issue that you care about.
That also presumably is of interest to voters.
Now, you know your community better than I do.
You know the issues that are concerning you, but you've got to figure out what's important to you and
also relevant to this office and also relevant to your community.
You can't talk about why you want to cut taxes.
If you're running for school board of a school board official and there's no taxing power, you've got
to make sure there's a good match.
Figure out why you're running for office now so people know exactly it's they are angry about Islamic
fundamentalism and they want to run to increase defense.
There's all sorts of reasons.
But you've got to have something that seems like a legitimate reason to other people.
It can't be that well.
I was just a student government fanatic in seventh grade.
I've been a political junkie and I watch CNN and MSNBC and Fox all the time.
And I just thought it would be fun.
That can't be your reason for public office.
You've got to have good sound reasons of how you want to help voters.
Elections are primarily about the future.
What are you going to do for me in the future?
That's what voters want to know.
I can't tell you what your message is, but I can tell you must have a message about what you're going
to do for voters.
How are you going to make society better if you're running for president?
You've got to make the whole country better.
If you're running for a tiny precinct chair of some governmental body, you've got to talk about how
you help people just in your neighborhood, maybe just on your street, but you've got to make your
arguments in a way that resonate with your audience.
It's not about what you want to hear.
It's about what the audience, the voters want to hear that's also important to you.
I'm not suggesting you just read polls and say whatever voters think.
Presumably you've decided to make this decision to run for public office because there's something you
do want to do.
There's a vision.
You have an issue you care about.
That's fine.
I don't want to take that away from you, but you've got to figure out a way of expressing that in a
compelling way, because we've all seen candidates in both parties when asked the question, why are
you running for president?
Why are you running for governor?
And it's well, our state has great natural resources and I love my family.
Does it mean anything?
You've got to quickly get to something meaningful to voters and let them know exactly why you're running.
They might not agree with it.
That's OK.
They might not think that's the number one issue, but something beats nothing.
People need to know why you're running for office.
So that's the first thing.
That's the first homework assignment for you.
Write down.
It could be one hundred words, one hundred words or less.
Why are you running for office?

--- How to Find Your Top 3 Winning Messages? ---

You and your campaign need a message now, the big blunder so many candidates make all across the political
spectrum is they just can't resist the urge to tell people every position they have on every issue and
every credential and everything they've ever done in their life.
It's too much.
People don't care that much about the whole background of their local city council or for that matter,
president.
Now, if you doubt me, think of some of the most successful presidents in the United States in the
last 50 years and how they've run their campaigns, their messaging.
It's been focused.
My recommendation, if you're running for president or city council or school board, have no more than
three main messages, three ideas, because people are simply not going to be interested in learning
that much more about you.
There's a danger they go, oh, grass and just tune out.
They don't want anymore and they forget you give a clear, focused, crisp message.
Three points now doesn't mean if you're given a half an hour to speak at the local Rotary Club running
for office, that you should sit down after 30 seconds.
But you need to give people a sense of what your three most important messages are.
Let's look from recent examples in political history.
Ronald Reagan running for president, had three main themes.
Vote for me.
I'll cut your taxes, strengthen defense, get government off your back.
Said it again and again and again.
Now, he said more than that, but those were his three main messages, his three main themes.
What did Bill Clinton say in nineteen ninety two when he was running for president?
Vote for me.
I'll get the economy going.
Health care for everyone.
Change the culture of Washington.
He hit those messages again and again and again.
Both men were successful.
This isn't a partisan thing here.
It's basic communications.
You have to have a narrow focus.
You can't tell people every position on every issue.
Most people are not political junkies.
Their eyes will glaze over.
So any time you're communicating with voters, narrow it down to your top three.
When you're talking to the media, focus on three main themes.
Now, issues can change from day to day.
It may have to change a little.
But as far as what's in your stump speech, what's in every interview, what's coming out of your mouth,
every time you knock on a door and you're able to just introduce yourself to a voter, to a potential
constituent, you need to have a clear focus on three messages.
And these messages had better be of interest to the voters and not just you.

--- The One Big Secret to Beating an Incumbent ---

Are you running against an incumbent?
If so, that is a different type of a race.
It's a unique race.
It's not like an open race and it simply may the best man, may the best woman run.
And things are in a hat if you're running against an incumbent.
Keep in mind, unless the incumbent is in jail or halfway to jail, that incumbent has a huge, huge
advantage, an advantage in name recognition, staff, time, money, endorsements, campaign organization
doesn't mean you can't win, but you do have to make the case as to why that incumbent deserves to be
fired.
Now, you don't have to necessarily use that language, but that's what you're asking voters to do if
you're running to replace a sitting city councilman Councilwoman.
You've got to make the case to the constituents in your district that this person needs to be fired.
They need to be replaced.
So what you're really doing is telling the voters they made a mistake.
Again, you're not going to couch it in those terms, but that's essentially the argument you're making.
And most voters don't like to admit to making mistakes.
Most people don't like to admit to making mistakes.
Think of it this way.
If you are desperate for an administrative assistant and I come to you and I say, look, I've got great
credentials, resume references, here they are.
I type two hundred words a minute and you really need someone.
I may have a good chance of being hired by you, but if you have an administrative assistant and this
person has worked for you for 10 years and you know this person as a single parent who supports two
children and has not the most competent person in the world, but basically gets along well with everyone
in the office, is an honest person and maybe types 40 words a minute.
Are you going to fire that person to bring me on?
Even though I type two hundred words a minute?
Chances are, no, it's human nature not to want to fire people who are already there.
So, so much of your challenge, if you're running against an incumbent, is you've got to make the
case as to why this person should be fired.
What have they done that was incompetent?
What votes do they cast that were really detrimental to the citizens?
What initiatives did they fail to support that were needed by this political jurisdiction?
You've got to make the case.
Now, I'm not suggesting you throw mud or you go through their bed sheets or through their trash.
What I am suggesting is you have to look at the public record.
What have they done, what have they not done?
And this should, in fact, relate to why you're running, because presumably if the incumbent is doing
everything well, there's no rational reason for you to run other than vanity or ego.
You don't want people to think that.
And I hope that's not the case.
So if you're running against an incumbent, you've got to give one main reason, something they've done
that's either incompetent, ineffective, perhaps corrupt or unethical.
But you've got to really tell people why this person does not deserve their trust anymore, why this
person does not deserve their vote an additional time and why you can do better.
That is your challenge when you're running against an incumbent.
If you say, well, T.J., I don't want to be negative, I just want to say my own platform, my own
credentials, and let the voters decide again, unless that incumbent is halfway to jail or cited for
major ethical violations, you're not going to win just by saying what's good about you.
You're going to have to make the case as to why the other person should be fired.
Back to my example earlier about your administrative assistant.
As I laid it out before, you're not going to fire that administrative assistant.
But if I can give you evidence showing your administrative assistant has embezzled a hundred thousand
dollars from you and that the authorities are about to arrest this person, well, now, maybe you might
actually hire me as your assistant.
Now, you might not want me for a variety of reasons, but I think you get my point.
You're going to have to make the case in a factual, substantive manner as to why the incumbent should
be fired and you should replace that incumbent.

--- The Stump Speech ---

If you're running for office, you need a basic stump speech, and I don't mean you have to literally
stand up and speak without a microphone.
That's what candidates had to do many generations ago these days.
Ideally, you're going to have a microphone speaker if you're speaking to a large crowd.
Otherwise you might be speaking to three people in someone's living room and you're not going to need
a stump or a microphone.
A stump speech just means a political speech where you tell people why you're running and what you're
going to do for them.
You need to have something that you're comfortable with because you're going to be giving this speech
possibly hundreds of times.
And if you start long enough in advance, you may be giving the speech a thousand times.
You need a speech that you feel comfortable with, that you believe in.
That's interesting, at least the first few times you hear it.
Now, if you said it a thousand times, you might get bored with it.
But your audience sure better find it interesting and you better act like you're finding it interesting
as well.
Great political leaders understand it's not about what interests them.
It is what's of relevance to the audience.
Ronald Reagan gave virtually the same speech from nineteen sixty four until nineteen eighty when he
became the president of the United States.
Are elected president, hit the same themes, many of the same examples again and again.
The speech was effective, wasn't necessarily interesting to him to say the same thing again and again.
But that was his best stuff, Larry King, if you've ever seen him give a speech at a convention, he
gives the same speech different from what you would hear him seeing as well, you hear him say on his
old CNN show, because he gives his best stuff that resonates with his audience, the stories about
his broadcasting career.
So you need a stump speech, meaning simply a good speech that tells people who you are, why you're
running, what you're going to do for them.
So your homework is to come up with one shoot for five minutes.
They're going to be campaign forums where you may be given three minutes, you may be given five minutes,
you may be given 10 minutes.
You're going to want to have a speech that has just a few main ideas where you can expand it or contract
it based on the time allotted.
But you've got to get to the point where you're completely comfortable with this.
The other candidates who are going with you, hearing you say it all the time, may be rolling their
eyes.
They may be bored.
Doesn't matter.
They're not going to vote for you, at least not based on what you're saying in that speech for the
20th time.
You've got to focus on your audience and treat every single audience as if it were the first time and
last time you might ever have contact with them.
And you've got to give them your best.
And that's why you can't come up with a new speech every day.
If you get elected president of the United States and you're talking about different hot spots and different
wars and crises around the world, sure, you may have to give 10 speeches a day, all on different
topics, all different words.
Well, at that point, you've got a professional speech writing staff, a dozen or so people.
But right now you're a candidate.
And no one really cares about your views on every single country and every single crisis in the world.
You've got to focus on the matter at hand, which is convincing people that you have the background,
the integrity, the right positions and the right policies that would make them want to vote for you
for this particular public office you're running for.
So that's what you need to stump speech.
That's your homework.
Now, let's come up with a five minute stump speech where you introduce yourself to voters.
Tell them who you are.
Let them know your number one concern.
You could only do one thing your first year in office.
What would it be and what you want to do for them?
Come up with that right now.

--- Speaking to The Media ---

If you're running for public office, you had better get used to talking to the news media.
Now, the good news about running for office is it's much easier to get news coverage than it is if
you are a small business or running a small nonprofit.
You are, by definition newsworthy when you announce you're running.
If you drop out, if you get caught in the scandal of your opponents attacking you.
But if you're creative, you can generate a lot of news coverage based on what you're saying, what
you're doing and how reporters are covering you.
So it's absolutely critical that you understand the media and that you understand how to communicate
effectively to the media.
Now, I've put together a very, very extensive, detailed section of the course here for you on how
to deal with the media, because it quite often does make the biggest difference between winning and
losing as a candidate, the best communicator as a candidate typically wins.
Now, there are exceptions.
If you're running for statewide office, then quite often it's whoever has the most money for pay TV
commercials, in which case you're communicating through TV ads.
But in many, many races around the country, around the world, it's who can communicate most effectively
when talking to TV reporters, radio reporters, Internet newspaper bloggers who can really get their
message across and therefore connect with actual voters.
Remember, you're not talking to a reporter because you're doing the reporter a favor or because you
like the reporter.
You're doing it because this is simply a more effective way of reaching voters than trying to raise
a billion dollars and spend a lot of money on paid advertising.
Now, you may have your own preconceived notions about reporters.
They're only out to get you.
They have a right wing bias, left wing bias, corporate buy.
Yeah, there's all those biases.
But the number one bias most reporters have is a bias in favor.
Anything interesting so that their story can get on the 6:00 news or get on that homepage the front
page.
So as long as you can consistently be interesting in your messages, you can generate a lot of news
coverage.
Now, the best way to get news coverage as a candidate is to attack attack the status quo.
If you're running against an incumbent, attack the incumbent.
If you are running against environmental pollution in a local river, don't just hold it in a TV studio.
Don't just hold it in a hotel.
Your press conference instead go to the river and hold up dead fish and say, this is the problem.
Believe me, reporters will cover it.
You will get on the local news because it's good visual.
The river behind you holding a dead fish, it will generate coverage.
Many times the most successful candidates are not necessarily the brightest, not even the hardest working,
but they are candidates who spend a lot of time thinking about messages for the media.
What will interest the media?
How can they appeal to the media, and how can they communicate through the media to the voters?
Because fundamentally, your campaign is one big communications challenge.
If you can actually communicate why you're running, why you think what you're doing is going to be
good for your jurisdiction and better than what the opponents are saying, you will win.
But most candidates don't do that.
And I would say no, losing candidates accomplish that.
At some point they didn't communicate what they were going to do, who they were, why they were in
any way better than the other candidate out there.
So campaigns are fundamentally communications challenges, and that's why you've got to learn how to
be a master of the media.
And I put here for you a very, very extensive course on how to deal with the media.
Believe me, there's no better use of your time right now than learning how to master the media because
it's absolutely critical skill if you're going to be a successful candidate.
More important, it's critical if you're going to govern, because once you get in, the campaign's
only begun.
You now have to campaign for all of your proposals, all of your policies, all of your proposed laws,
and you're going to have to do that through the media.

--- Always Select Your Best Persuasion Opportunities and Environments ---

There is a clear cut hierarchy for which way of communicating with someone is more persuasive.
Now, I can't speak for every single industry, but in general, I want to give you some principles
that do apply face to face meeting.
Talking to one person is in general the most persuasive way of talking someone into something.
Think of it.
Those of you who are married, did you either propose to someone or accept a proposal through an email,
a voice mail, a certified letter, a video?
Probably not.
It was a face to face meeting.
So if you want to increase your ability to be more persuasive, part of what you've got to do is look
at all the other things you do to interact with clients, colleagues, customers, prospects, bosses,
and try to figure out how can you get to more face to face meetings, either one on one or presentations
or speeches, because we as human beings are wired to pay attention to someone a lot more if they're
speaking to us than if they just sent us an email or just sent us a direct mail card.
So we have a clear cut sense of your hierarchy of communication.
The top level and the focus of most of this course is how you can actually talk to people to be more
persuasive.
Now, I'll use the term talk, presentation, speech, briefing, PowerPoint.
All I mean is any time you're talking to someone, you're trying to persuade them to do something by
from you, hire you, approve a budget, vote for you, support your colleague, whatever it is in the
workplace, that's what you're trying to get them to do.
That's what we're going to do here.
Let's dive in more.

--- Learning Persuasion Skills to Beat the "Naturals" ---

It's important to realize that being persuasive is not some natural born skill, nobody is just a natural
born persuasive speaker, presenter, talker.
This is a learned skill and the difference between people who end up remarkably persuasive in their
careers and those who sort of cap out down here middle management, the people who became really persuasive
simply tried to improve that much a half of one percent after every presentation they gave, after every
pitch, every talk.
Case in point, I wasn't a natural born presenter.
I was that kid in Cub Scouts when I was 10 years old who sold the least amount of peanut brittle for
the pack fundraising drive.
I was that kid in junior high school who sold the fewest number of magazine subscriptions for the annual
fundraising drive.
How do I get better?
Well, that's what this course is about.
I'm going to give you more and more tools.
But a starting point.
You got to realize you can do this.
Anyone with even below average intelligence can go on to be highly persuasive if they follow the tools
and techniques outlined in this class.
So get ready.
We are going to hop in now.

--- Mapping Out Your Finish Line - In Advance! ---

Those who are persuasive know exactly what they want and they can sum it up in one sentence.
So that's my challenge to you.
Every time you're speaking to someone in the workplace, presenting something, trying to move something
along, have a clear cut sense of exactly what you want the person or group of people to do it.
I'd recommend you write it down.
So that's part of the homework after this particular lecture is done.
I want you to go into the discussion section right here and write down in one sentence, one thing you're
trying to persuade someone in your workplace to do.
The reason this is so crucial is a lot of people make the fundamental blunder of talking, presenting,
trying to persuade people, and they're not even sure themselves what they want the person to do before
you know what they've told them, everything they've ever done, everything they ever want to do.
The person listening to you or the group of people listening to you was just left kind of confused,
highly successful people who are very persuadable in the workplace.
What they do is they know exactly what they want.
I want this person to buy from me.
I want this person to sign a contract.
I want this person to give us a free trial for one month to see if this is a good fit.
I want this person to hire me.
It's not so general and vague and fuzzy as, oh, I want this person to think I'm smart.
I want this person to think I'm hard working.
That's too vague and fuzzy and general and generic.
So if you want to be someone who's good at persuading, you have to know what you're actually trying
to do.
As I mentioned, back in the Cub Scouts, I was trying to persuade people to buy the peanut brittle
as a fundraiser.
Very clear go.
I didn't succeed.
But you're not going to make that same mistake anymore.
I know exactly what you're asking people to do.
You can't be confused.
If you're confused, they will definitely be confused.
The first step, write it down in one sentence.
What is it you're trying to get people to do?

--- Moving the Numbers Game In Your Favor ---

This next insight will sound like a cliche to you, it is, but I want to dig a little deeper and bring
meaning to it.
You've heard the expression it's a numbers game, anything you're selling, anything you're pitching
in life.
It's a numbers game.
And that is true when it comes to being persuading to people.
Now, there is the old joke of someone, and I'll clean this up and make it politically correct for
current times.
But someone stands on a street corner and asks someone of the opposite sex out on a date just randomly.
Every person who goes by one out of one hundred will say yes, playing the numbers game.
That is not what I'm talking about here.
You don't want to just randomly scattershot throw out your pitches everywhere in the workplace or on
a street corner.
There has to be a focus.
There has to be a strategy.
But still, I do want you to think about how you can increase the overall number of times.
You're giving a pitch, a presentation, a talk where you're trying to persuade someone.
Persuasion is a skill like anything else.
People who golf daily in general are better than people who golf twice every six years.
People who write every single day are generally better than people who write once every three months.
It is a skill you get better by doing it more often.
But there's also just the percentages.
If you're doing it a lot, you don't have to close 100 hundred percent of the time.
You don't have to successfully persuade somebody a hundred percent, 90 or even 50 percent.
I would say in my own presentations where I'm trying to persuade a prospect I fail maybe seventy five
percent of the time, but.
I'm giving dozens of pitch presentations pretty much every single week, so I wouldn't even want I don't
know what I would do if I closed on one hundred percent had to hire a lot more people.
But that's a separate issue.
My point is, you've got to be looking for opportunities to present more, to pitch more, to try to
persuade.
If you don't talk to someone, then you're guaranteed of not persuading.
And if you get something or you really believe it and you have something good to pitch, you have a
good idea and you figured out a way and get getting in front of people, you will be successful.
But it is a numbers game.
The greatest soccer players in the world, when they're kicking to score a goal, they fail more than
90 percent of the time.
The greatest baseball players in the world, the the best sluggers are still going to fail to persuade
that baseball to leave the the outfield and be a home run.
More than 70 percent of that or even hit the ball.
They're going to fail 70 percent of the time.
It is exactly the same way when it comes to persuasion in the workplace.
In fact, if you are a hundred percent successful with every time you're trying to persuade someone,
you're probably not aiming high enough.
If you're not getting some nose, it means you're not reaching far enough.
So please keep that in mind.
It's not about the significance of any one time you failed to persuade.
It's about the overall trend, the overall process.
How many times I'd much rather you failed to persuade one hundred times in the next year than to be
one hundred percent successful if you only try to persuade somebody once or twice.
So part of becoming a better and better persuader is simply looking for more and more opportunities
of where you'd like to have influence, where you would like to persuade people, and then giving your
pitch, giving your presentation, talking to people to try to, in fact, persuade them.

--- The Unique Advantage of Persuasion in the Business World ---

The good news about persuasion in business and business communication is at some level, it's a thousand
times easier than persuasion in other aspects of life.
If my five year old daughter tries to persuade me to buy her a motorcycle, she can use every trick
in the book.
It's not going to work.
So many aspects of life.
We're trying to convince a family member, a friend to do something they absolutely do not want to do.
Do not believe in.
And you could promise anything you could say, anything you could offer bribes.
You're not going to persuade them.
So a lot of what makes successful people in business successful persuaders is they only try to focus
on people who are, in fact, persuadable, people who are in their target market.
So if you want to be persuadable, a lot of what you've got to do is find the people who actually want
what you're trying to either sell or do or improve, and don't waste time trying to persuade people
who are not persuadable.
Now, this sounds like obvious advice at this point.
You may be looking around.
Where is that button for the refund for this course here on YouTube?
Bear with me.
Obviously, if you have a new steakhouse, you don't want to spend your time going to meet ups for vegetarians.
It's not going to matter how good you are, how charming you are, how persuasive you are in general.
You're not going to persuade a bunch of vegetarians to start coming to your steak house that often.
If you are trying to persuade people to fund your startup company, you aren't going to be very successful
if you only target people who've never invested in anything other than mutual funds.
And they want something that's very conservative state, traditional liquid.
They're not going to invest in something highly risky, like a startup.
You, in fact, need to focus your energies on pitching people who invest in startups.
If you're looking for angel funding, you need to pitch angels don't go after the large, gigantic venture
capital firms that want to see a company that's already up and running and has a lot of things in place.
You need to focus on people who actually do the things you want to do normally are headed in that direction.
Let me give you an example.
I've been doing presentation, training and media training for more than 30 years, and I like to think
I'm a pretty good presenter.
Good at persuading.
Every so often I'll have someone call me up and say, well, T.J., this boss of mine or this colleague
really needs presentation training.
I want to get a conference call together.
And I want you to persuade this person to do it because he doesn't want to do it or she doesn't want
to do it.
And I always say, oh, thanks.
And they look at me like, what are you talking about?
You have your own business, of course you want to be pitching your wares all the time and say, well,
no, because I've actually never once in my entire career persuaded somebody to hire me for public speaking,
training, persuasion, training.
If they didn't already want it, I've never convince someone to do this, if they didn't want to do
it first.
So I am remarkably unpersuasive in convincing people to do public speaking, training or media training.
But here's what I'm good at.
If somebody has already decided that they want public speaking training, they want to improve their
presentation skills and persuasion skills, they want to do it by a set time because they have some
new initiative, a big speech coming up, a media interview.
And it's so important to them they've allocated money or they've come up with a budget and they've decided
they're definitely going to not just use somebody local or their PR person, but they want a professional.
Give me someone like that.
And I am remarkably persuasive that that person should hire me because they fit my screen.
They're actually a good prospect.
I don't waste time cold calling.
I don't waste time trying to convince anyone to buy my services or to hire me.
I focus on people who already have and have already decided they're going to hire me and that's who
I talk to.
And I close a very high rate of those.
Now, you might not be trying to sell your own services as an independent contractor or freelancer or
professional.
You may be a part of a large organization.
You're still selling something.
You're selling your idea.
You still have to have people ready to buy in.
And so you've got to figure out who in your company, who in your organization is actually interested
in this.
If you come up with a new plan to save money, focus on pitching that to the people who care most about
saving money.
Figure out what is driving the people in your organization or if it's your prospects or clients, what
is really motivating them?
What do they want already and what is it you're trying to convince them to do that helps them go where
they're going anyway?
That's so much of persuasion is trying to figure out what's the overlap between what you want and what
this other person out there in your organization or someone dealing with your organization.
Where are they trying to go?
Let's figure that out so it can, in fact, be a win win.
Back to that steakhouse.
If you convince somebody as a vegetarian to come to your steakhouse and eat all your steak, that may
be a short term win for you, but it's not helping that person because that person's a vegetarian.
You trick them into eating the steak because you were so persuasive and.
Oh, well, that's just all made of soy.
It's no problem.
And they eat it.
They're likely to get sick.
That doesn't help them.
It doesn't help you.
And if you're not really helping the person and they get disappointed, that's going to hurt you in
the long run.
So the rule here there is you've got to have focus and try to persuade people who are, in fact, persuadable
if there's somebody in your organization and you know that no matter what anyone says, no matter how
good the ideas, their first response is always no.
That's a horrible idea.
Don't spend your time -- that person first.
Don't try to persuade that person.
First, persuade the person who's likely to benefit the most from your idea, who's likely to champion
it, who's likely to try to help persuade other people.
That's where you focus.

--- Never Bore With Data Dumps Again ---

I'm a big believer in teaching people in the positive and not just a bunch of don't, don't, don't,
don't do this a series of negatives, but I do want to address the elephant in the room.
In my experience, the number one factor of people not being persuasive is they all make the same mistake.
The mistake is they have an opportunity to pitch, to present, to try to persuade someone in their
organization, in the workplace or a client outside.
And they waste the opportunity by just doing a massive data dump.
They tell the person in the organization or the prospect, every single fact they know, they try to
educate the person on every part of the process, every fact, the history.
And they think, oh, I'm being thorough, I'm being hard working.
The person is going to be so impressed that I'm so knowledgeable.
And I covered everything.
I didn't leave anything out.
No one can accuse me of being superficial and leaving anything out.
It's a very defensive negative mentality.
And the result is typically the person you're trying to persuade isn't persuaded because they're just
lost in this sea of data.
So do not make that mistake.
We're going to spend some time in the next few lectures helping you figure how do you narrow it down?
How do you really refine what's truly most important?
As Mark Twain once said and a lot of other successful writers have claimed to say this, I'm sorry I
wrote you a long letter, I didn't have time to write you a short letter.
It actually takes more time, thought intelligence to narrow your messages down than to just say absolutely
everything.
So we've all been guilty of this.
I'll tell you about that more in a moment.

--- Master the Process Of NOT Telling People Too Much About Your Process ---

What else makes people profoundly non persuasive?
It's not just the data dump, it's the specific things they're putting into that data dump.
One big challenge, one big problem for so many people is they want to explain every single part of
the process of what they're going to do to help someone and therefore why that person should then use
them or put a rubber stamp of approval on what they're asking for.
In general, human beings don't care about the process unless it's their full time job.
They care about the results you will give them.
This is true whether it's a client, a prospect, a boss or a colleague in another department, focus
on the benefits to the person you're trying to persuade.
That means you cannot go into every single little detail on the process.
It means you cannot describe every little feature.
Now, unfortunately, a lot of us, when we are so excited about what we do, our profession, we want
to tell everybody everything we do and we think this is good and people like our passion for it.
But if we're overwhelming them with the process, we can, in fact, work against ourselves.
We can be less persuasive.
Now, this can happen to anyone.
A few years ago, this even happened to me, I found myself when I was giving a sales presentation,
a pitch trying to persuade someone to hire me for a day of public speaking, training or media training.
I went on and on and on into the process, and I would send them a nice personalized video, but I would
then walk them through every step of the process.
I would tell them what we'll have our pre training conference call and you'll hear you'll send me a
video and I'll critique it in advance.
And then during the day of presentation training, I'll get you on camera a dozen times.
And after that, you'll have Skype follow up with me and you can text or email or call me with questions
and I'll answer you in a video back and you can go back into the online training school at any point.
And I'll send you follow up training videos every single day for the next year.
I went on and on and on.
And truth is, some of the people who hired me did like that level of detail, but.
A lot or other people, other prospects were just overwhelmed.
I spent too much time talking about the process of every little thing I'm going to do to help them become
a better presenter.
And what I should have done is focused on the benefits to them.
So now when someone pitches me or ask me for a pitch, I focus on the benefits.
I say, hey, if you work with me, I'm going to make sure you are more comfortable, confident, relaxed,
any time you speak.
Doesn't matter if it's in front of one person, one hundred, a thousand or ten thousand people.
I'm going to really give you the skills so that you'll know in advance your audience will understand
you.
And here's the tricky part.
I'm going to make sure your audience will actually remember your key messages, because most speakers
are so boring, no one remembers anything.
And because of that, there's a much greater chance that you will persuade your audience to do what
you want.
And in this case, I personalize it and and fill in the blanks of what I know that person's trying to
accomplish.
Sal, do whatever it is.
So that pitch only takes me 60 seconds or so in a video.
The old one took eight, nine, 10 minutes, and it was just too long.
So you have to catch yourself on this and make sure you don't accidentally fall into the temptation
of more.
Is more is more narrow the focus.
This is especially true if it's one sided communication.
You're sending someone a video, an email, you're talking to them over the phone or in a Skype video.
But there's other people there and it's not quite a one on one conversation.
It's a little bit different when it's a one on one meeting.
But even then, narrow your focus to the benefits to them.
If they have questions about all the other process, by all means, answer their questions in detail.
But when you have the open floor to just start off, focus on your benefits, don't tell people every
part of your process.

--- The 5 Key Messages for Your Persuasion Success ---

As we've discussed in earlier lectures, most people give way too much data.
Way too many facts, messages, talking points when they are trying to persuade somebody in the workplace.
My recommendation is get at that one sentence of what you're trying to get people to do.
And then before you write out a PowerPoint slide deck or a whole speech or a long memo, just sit back,
get comfortable, put your feet on the desk if that works for you, and brainstorm on every possible
message you have that could, in fact, motivate the person you're speaking to to do what you want.
You're looking at it through that screen.
Not every single interesting fact, obviously not the process.
Obviously, you're trying to isolate messages that will, in fact, motivate your person.
You're speaking to to do what you want to persuade them to do what you want.
And you may come up with fifty one hundred two hundred messages.
Don't limit it.
But here's the catch.
I want you to narrow your messages down to your top five.
Why do I say that I work with business executives, United Nations officials, government officials
in their workplaces all over the world, and I always ask them when someone's giving you some pitch,
a presentation, trying to persuade you on something, think of the best speaker you've seen.
In your office, in your industry, at a convention in the last year, last five years, maybe ever.
Now don't tell me what you liked about their presentation, that they were funny or they moved around
or didn't care about that.
I want to know, what do you actually remember about their presentation, their talk, the way they
tried to persuade you?
What do you remember of the actual messages, the substance now and all the years?
I've asked people that quite often the response is well to everybody in our field is boring.
I don't remember anything.
Sometimes it's one message.
Occasionally it's two, sometimes three messages.
Every three or four months, someone will say, oh, yeah, T.J., there was this fantastic speaker
at our annual convention who persuaded us.
And then they'll tell me maybe four points every six months or so.
I'll have someone who says, yes, T.J., I remember the best speaker I've ever seen in my life, and
they remembered five points.
Now, I've asked more than ten thousand people that question over the last 30 years.
I've never yet had anyone remember more than five key messages, five key ideas from any presentation
in the workplace, from any sales pitch or any other form of a pitch.
So that's why I say to you, narrow it down.
Less is more.
You've heard that cliche again, some cliches are true.
We don't like to follow it, but it is true.
So if you want to be persuasive, a lot of it has nothing to do with the silver tongued or a nice smile
on your face, or whether you get someone free tickets to the professional sporting event.
Those things might help.
But so much of what will really determine whether you are successful when you persuade is just do you
have the willingness and ability to sit back, maybe close your eyes, really think and really narrow
down to your top five messages.
Of course, they should be important messages to you, but if they're not important messages, relevant,
interesting messages to the person you're speaking to, get rid of it, throw it in the trash can,
maybe come up with ten messages that are important to you that you think might motivate the person you're
speaking to.
That's still too much.
You've got to put them in priority from least important to most important and then get rid of anything
that doesn't make your top five.

--- Your Secret Source of Winning Persuasion Messages ---

Some of the most persuadable people when it comes to how they persuade others are not necessarily any
harder working than you or anyone else.
In fact, quite often they can be lazy and cheat.
Now, here's what I mean.
It's nothing unethical.
But if you're trying to figure out what messages are really going to work on these new prospects or
these new clients or some new executive within your organization, just ask people you've persuaded
in the past what worked.
You'd be surprised what you find out.
Sometimes it's what you think is the least important aspect of your pitch.
The thing that you thought was perhaps least persuadable or persuading the person who ultimately signed
on to what you want, did what you wanted, became a client, a customer or approved a budget.
That's what resonated with them.
Well, guess what?
That person is a lot more credible on what's going to work to someone you haven't spoken to yet than
you and your own gut.
Sure, sometimes you do have to rely on your own gut.
But if it's a choice between my gut and what a client who hired me last week says worked on him or her,
I'm going to go with what that client says.
When I'm talking to a new prospect, all you have to do is ask.
Most people are afraid to do it, whether it's an outside client, a customer, or whether it is a colleague
that you sit next to at a Monday morning staff meeting every week.
And you can tell they endorsed your measure from a month ago.
Now you got to pitch something new or now you have to pitch someone higher up in the organization about
the same thing that you pitched a month ago to your group.
Ask that person what persuaded them.
What did they like about your pitch?
Why did you think it worked?
And you'll be surprised what you hear.
It's typically not going to be the process.
If we as we've discussed before, I could tell you, I do this in my own business.
So when I pitch people on media training skills, I want to make sure I have the best possible pitch.
So I've asked my clients, well, why did you hire me?
And.
On many occasions, the person hiring me, whether it's a CEO or an account executive, a public relations
firm, they've said to me, T.J., there's two things we like.
No.
One, we like that you don't just show up for a day and that's it.
There's a more comprehensive process to this.
And you give follow up.
Number two, you're the only media trainer we've ever heard in the world who actually explains a process
of how to go from a message point to a sound bite that can be duplicated.
That's what people have told me.
You don't deal with media and don't even know what media training is.
This is irrelevant to you.
Doesn't matter.
You're not my prospect, but I hear people say that.
So I make a point of really mentioning those two points.
Those are two of my messages when I have to try to persuade a prospect for media training.
So I need you to really listen to people where, you know, you've already been successful.
When you think about it, everything in life is like that.
People who do well in one sport or they start to kick goals in a certain way, try to do more of that.
Great musicians who have luck in a certain genre and a certain album takes off.
We'll do more in that genre.
It's not constantly scattershot, something new every single time when you're trying to persuade people
to do something in particular.
You've already had some success persuading other people, ask them what worked.
That information is, frankly, more valuable than anything you're going to find in this course, although
I hope this course motivates you to actually ask them.

--- Persuade More By talking Less ---

The most persuasive people in many offices are often the people who speak the least, who talk the least
when they are trying to persuade people.
What do I mean by that of you not pitching?
How do you persuade anyone?
What I mean is you've got to really listen to the person you're trying to persuade.
Now, whether it's an outside client prospect or someone internally, it's always good to first ask
people about their needs.
What are they looking for?
What's a source of problem, irritation, pain?
And what do you have?
What solutions do you have, whether it's a product, a service, an idea, a budget concept, what
is it you have that you now want to persuade them to do that you think will solve that?
The more you can find out about what their actual source of conflict is a pain of need, then you can
tailor your pitch to them.
Big problem so many people have is they've got some products, some service, some idea, they're so
excited about it, they're so confident in their abilities, they have a chance to pitch to someone
and they just start talking and talking and talking.
It's one sided.
And if they had just listened to what the person was saying, they could completely tailor their pitch
presentation in a different way and it could be 100 percent responsive.
So one of the first things you should do, whether it's a client prospect or customer prospect or someone
within your company, is ask a bunch of questions, find out what is it they are looking for.
If they specifically are looking for a service you offer.
Ask them what is the deciding factor?
And their decision process going to be, believe it or not, people actually tell you quite often people
tell me this all the time, I ask them and if they say and they're based on the other side of the country,
they say our number one factor is, is the person local and there's zero transportation cost.
I know this is not a good prospect for me, and I'll maybe try to get them to do an online training.
But beyond that, I simply know it's not a good fit.
On the other hand, if they say, well, we really want someone who is experienced and has gray hair
because the CEO is very arrogant and he's more than 60 and he only wants to deal with them, then I'll
mention, hey, I got gray hair and I've been doing this for thirty five years.
So you've got to really listen to the people to find out what is going to be their decision process,
what's going to motivate them.
And then you can tailor your messages in a way that's even more specific.
So always ask.
They might not tell you, they may give you something.
General, if you're trying to persuade somebody to hire your ad agency and they've cast a wide net and
they are a ketchup company, they're going to say, well, we are going to hire the advertising agency
that has the most creative approach to sell more ketchup.
It may be obvious, but it might not be.
You can still ask them what's wrong with the incumbent firm?
What are you looking for that your current agency isn't doing?
What's going to be your decision process in the deciding factor?
So always ask.
And because of that, you have to realize when you're trying to persuade someone, you can't walk into
this with a sense of, well, here is my deck and I'm going to go through the deck to sell them.
No, it's not your PowerPoint presentation.
It's not your deck.
It's not your speech.
It's not your presentation.
It's the other person's presentation.
It's all about them, so you've got to listen.
Be in the moment, be present and then put out messages that are the most relevant to your prospects.
That's the way you'll be much more persuadable.

--- There is Nothing Like Seeing Your Persuasion Messages in Text ---

I hope you've done your due diligence now you've really thought about every possible message that could
persuade the person you're trying to speak to or the group you've asked other people in the past, you've
persuaded what worked.
And ideally, you've also asked people you're trying to persuade what will actually persuade them.
Now, I want you to put it all together, refine it and narrow it down.
And I want you to literally write down here in the discussion section of this lecture top headline.
What is it?
You're trying to persuade people to do the same as before.
But now what are the five messages you're going to try to convey when you are presenting to them to
try to persuade them, write it down?
Each message is something you should be able to say in a single sentence.
It's something that should be conveyed in about 10 words or less.
Now, that doesn't mean your whole pitch is going to be 50 words, but I need you to have clarity in
your own mind what is truly most important.
So that's the assignment.
Go ahead.
If you need to take a little time to do this, it's critically important to do this.
If you just sit back and watch old TJ speak, well, you could be watching a Seinfeld episode or something
else.
I'm not I'm not that entertaining, believe me.
I want to get something out of this.
I need you to put this exercise into practice and actually write it down.
Thanks.

--- More for You, By Not Talking About You ---

Another classic blunder to avoid talking too much about yourself now.
This is especially applicable when you're trying to persuade somebody who doesn't work next to you in
the office every single day, perhaps someone who doesn't know you.
A new investor prospect or client prospect.
I see this again and again and again.
People make the same mistake.
And it's me, me, me, me, me.
I'm happy to be here today.
I'm so glad that I get the chance to speak to you.
Let me tell you about how great I am.
Well, here's a hint for you.
Nobody cares about you yet.
Your co-workers may like you and be on friendly terms.
But still, the number one thing that anyone's thinking about when they're sitting across from you in
a meeting or in a room hearing your pitch or presentation or talk is how are you going to help them?
How are you going to help them accomplish their mission, their goal, their objectives?
So I believe that everything out of your mouth should be focused first and foremost on helping them.
That's why you may have noticed in the promo video in this very course where I'm trying to sell you
on taking this course.
I don't go on and on and on and on.
I don't say, oh, I've written a number one USA Today best seller book Secret to Foolproof Presentations,
and I'm in the Guinness Book of Records for most presentations ever on talk radio shows all over the
world.
I could go on and on and on for things.
But you know what?
I decided that's not going to persuade you to take this course.
If you want to know my bio, the buyer's right here on the website.
It's in the description further down on the course page.
You can always find out by clicking on any of the social media buttons.
So I didn't want to waste your time going on and on about my credentials.
Certainly if I'm pitching a new prospect, I'll have a paragraph or two or three deep in any kind of
print proposal, tax proposal.
But when I'm talking to people focused on what is going to persuade them now, they may need one or
two facts about my bio that's really going to resonate with them.
So it's really important to them that they only work with a trainer or coach who's worked in mutual
fund industry.
Then I will go and spend ten or so seconds talking about all the mutual funds I've worked with and all
the different people in their industry I've worked with, because that will make them feel more comfortable.
But it's not a generic bio.
Let me tell you about how great I am.
A big, big problem in so many presentations when people are trying to persuade someone too much on
the bio, too many facts, too many numbers, too much of anything and everything other than a focus
on the messages that are going to move your audience that will actually persuade them.

--- Here is How You Get People to Remember Your Messages ---

You've done a good job of looking at all the possible messages you could try to use to persuade someone
you've narrowed it down to your top five, you're comfortable with them.
But here's the problem we haven't addressed yet.
If the people you're speaking to don't remember your messages.
Two seconds later, how are they going to act on it?
How are you actually going to persuade them unless you're just taking a vote the second you finish?
If you really want to persuade people to take an action to support a new initiative, approve a budget,
buy from you, become a new client, you've got to package your messages in a way that's actually memorable.
This is the biggest problem so many speakers have now.
It's related to that problem I told you about earlier of doing the data dump when you dumped way too
much data.
Nobody remembers anything.
But even if you've narrowed your messages down to the top five, doesn't guarantee people will remember
your messages.
Let me give you the easy way, the lazy man, the lazy woman's way of doing it.
Tell a story.
Just tell a story involving a real conversation you had about a real problem with a real person, where
it was, how the conflict was resolved, how you felt about it.
All of us tell stories all the time.
And that's what human beings do when they want to see something, visualize it, taste it, touch it,
realize it, really share with another human being.
That's what makes it easier for people to absorb it.
So when someone says, T.J., we've got a whole bunch of beginners here, some of them are really fearful.
I'm not sure you're the good fit because you just seem so comfortable and articulate.
You're a natural born speaker, so.
Well, actually not.
I was very shy as a kid, but it took me a long time to get comfortable.
And I am comfortable in part because I've had a lot of failures and a lot of mistakes.
My worst experience ever speaking was more than 20 years ago I was on a political talk radio show in
South Florida.
And I'll never forget I had advocated for a particular candidate who was currently in office.
And I said something and the host got very angry with me.
He pulled the microphone right out of my hand.
So, Mr. Walker, I have more respect for a Klansman than I do for you.
I looked a little shocked, surprised, but I thought, well, I'm already a tough media consultant,
presentation coach, persuasion coach, I'm not going to let him intimidate me.
I'm pulling the microphone back.
Mr. Stick, what I really think before I could say anything else, he reaches under the console.
It's a talk radio show.
No one can see it.
He's in a big chair looking down.
I'm on this tiny little chair, like a little child looking up.
He reaches under the console, the table where all the microphones are.
He pulls a gun on me, talk radio.
Nobody can see it.
Now, do you see my point, Mr. Walker?
You know what I said at that moment?
Not much.
In fact, it was my worst speaking moment ever.
But here's the thing.
I didn't let that one awful media experience persuade me to never do anything in the media again or
never speak.
I like speaking.
I like speaking in the media, helping other people be persuasive when they're speaking in the media
and giving presentations.
And I just tried to learn from it.
In fact, I went back to that studio, that radio station a few weeks later and went back many times
on other people's shows.
I even guest hosted other shows on that radio station.
Now, I stayed away from that guy that won host.
I think he is a lunatic, but I didn't let it bother me.
I just tried to learn from it.
Now, the good news is every interview I've ever done since every speech I've ever given, since piece
of cake, nobody's pulled a gun on me.
So I try to learn from my mistakes.
OK, what did I just do there?
A client surfaced a point where they want someone that is a trainer that people can relate to, many
of whom may be awful speakers, beginners, uncomfortable.
And I can't just say, well, you know, I've been an uncomfortable speaker, too.
I wanted to illustrate that message with a story.
The story had a character in me, another character, Mr. Cyc, the talk show host, had a setting.
The talk radio station had some dialogue, conversation, had a problem, had a gun on the had feeling
emotion, scared and had a resolution.
Yeah, I did lousy there, but I learned from it and went back and kept doing it because I have a passion
for it.
So the story takes less than 90 seconds to tell, but it's more memorable.
Sometimes I bump into clients.
Ten, fifteen years later they'll say, Hey, D.J., had the guns pointed at you lately.
And by the way, I didn't get shot and there was no blood coming out.
So that's the beauty of stories, is it forms memory.
So this is not a course on storytelling or even public speaking.
I've got a lot of other courses on you to me if you want to go deeper in that.
But just remember, telling somebody a message in a straightforward way doesn't stick.
It doesn't work.
You've got to package it with a story.
And the more it can involve an actual conversation you had with a customer client, prospect colleague,
the better people say to me all that, well, T.J., can I just make it up?
You could, but that's a lot harder.
The easiest thing, and I want to make life easy for you.
The easiest thing is just to really have an actual conversation with a real person that makes the point
you're trying to get across, do that.
It's going to be easier for you.
Guess who else?
It's easier for the person you're trying to persuade.

--- Ironing Out the Kinks in Your Persuasion Presentation ---

OK, I've been very light on the homework now you can't say, well, he's given us too many stuff and
too many quizzes and all that, I've been very light on you.
Now I want you to do something.
This next assignment.
We've already got your main objective of what you're trying to persuade people to do.
You've narrowed it down to your five main messages.
I hope after the last lecture you've been able to think of interesting stories, examples, case studies
for each message point.
But now I want you to practice.
You don't have to show anyone.
Just practice in the privacy of your own home, your own cubicle, go to an empty conference room at
lunchtime and just pull out your cell phone.
Say your pitch presentation and then look at it, figure out what you like.
Figure out what you don't like, keep doing it again and again until you like what you see.
You don't have to show anyone.
I know you don't want to do this, most of us don't like looking at ourselves, we don't like the sound
of our own voice.
We don't like the way we look because most of us.
So I looked better when I was 20 years old.
It's not about being perfect now.
I'm very comfortable on camera, but it's not because I think I'm perfect.
I can look at a video of myself and say, my God, where did my hair go and look at these jowls and
I'm getting wrinkled and ugly.
It's not that I think I'm perfect, but I'm comfortable speaking on video because I've watched myself
and I know exactly how I'm coming across and I know that this is how I want to come across and this
is the best I can do.
And I also an objective enough to know that you don't care how I look.
If I can give you information to help your career, it ultimately doesn't really matter how I look.
I'm not trying to be the next movie star and the next George Clooney.
I don't have to be gorgeous.
I just have to give you interesting information.
That's what I want you to take away when you start practicing your presentation on video.

--- Mastering Persuasive Body Language ---

We haven't spent a lot of time in this chorus talking about your body language when you're trying to
persuade someone how long they'll look at them and all that sort.
A few basics, though, the more you can actually look at someone, not a stare down contests, but
you're looking at the person most of the time or looking at individuals in the room, the better.
The big problem most people make is they're staring at their pitch presentation deck.
They're staring at slides, they're staring at notes, or they're staring at the whole room and never
looking at someone.
So, so much of what will make you more effective when you are trying to persuade someone is are you
looking at them and are you being interesting now?
We don't have the time in this course to go over all the aspects of body language for every scenario,
seated pitch presentation, standing keynote addresses, large audiences, small audiences.
If you want more on that, I've got dozens of other courses on how to give successful presentations
and body language courses.
But I want to give you the most important basics.
Now, if you did the exercise I asked you a moment ago to do, you recorded yourself.
I just want you to look at yourself and then watch your best one without any sound.
What do you see if all you see is this?
Ask yourself, is that someone you would want to buy from work with indoors?
Probably not the most important thing when it comes to your body language and when you're giving a pitch
presentation or any other presentation, is there movement?
When people are comfortable, confident and relaxed, number one, they move their hands, it's a huge
myth that you're not supposed to move your hands to move their body.
They move their head, they move their face, their arms are moving.
If you're standing, you can actually walk around the room.
No, you don't want to be pacing too much.
But the far bigger problem is people standing totally stiff, frozen or grabbing a lectern.
You'll be much more persuasive when you seem completely comfortable, confident and relaxed and just
having a conversation with one person, even if they're a thousand in the room, you need to look like
and sound like you're having a conversation with one person.
So I need you to go back to your best video now and really look at it.
If there's something you don't like about how you're moving, then redo it.
But let me caution you, so many people, when they are reviewing their persuasive pitch presentations,
will misdiagnose.
They'll see their head moving.
They'll think, oh, that doesn't look professional.
I better hold my head straight now.
That will make you look scared or they'll see their hands moving and they think they need to tighten
it.
You don't want to tighten your hands or they'll see themselves blink and they think that looks weird.
Well, everyone blinks.
It looks weird if you don't blink.
So don't worry about the blinking.
So that's the assignment right now.
Just look at the one you did on your cell phone or iPad or webcam.
Really figure out are you coming across?
Interesting.
Are you looking at people?
And if you're practicing just with yourself, are you looking out?
If you are looking at a piece of paper or a computer screen, you have dramatically reduced your ability
to be persuasive.
People universally hate to be read to the universally hate to be ignored.
So if you're staring at a whole bunch of papers to go over all your points and all your messages, which
I know you won't do because you've narrowed it down to five, you've made a mistake.
Now it's perfectly fine to have a single sheet of no.
This is what I would use for an hour long keynote speech.
It's large font, large bullet points.
I only have a handful of points, but the other points they are for my examples and my story's fine
to occasionally glance down at a piece of paper.
But your body language and primarily your eyes, most important part of your body should be looking
at the person or persons you're trying to persuade.

--- Persuading Yourself to Go Outside of Your Comfort Zone ---

Now comes to the part of the course, which will be the biggest breakthrough moment for a lot of you.
It's also the least favorite part of this course.
What I'm going to ask you to do now is that video that you did that your favorite video where you think
you're doing everything the way you like.
You've got five good messages.
You've got examples, stories for each one.
You've redone it.
If there was something good about your body language that didn't look right, I want you to upload that
to YouTube or Facebook or some file sharing site.
And then I want you to put the link of that you are out into the discussion section of this course,
let the other students look at it, I will look at it and I will give you my professional critique.
Obviously, I can't reach through this computer and force you to do it the way I can when I'm doing
my in-person live workshops all over the world.
But if I could, I would, because this is the single most important part of doing it, letting other
people look at it, figuring out what works, what doesn't work, being your own critic, but also getting
some dispassionate perspective on it.
And that's where I can help.
That's what I do with my clients in real life.
That's what I can do for you.
I can tell you far less than one percent of my students, less than point one percent of my students
here in Udemy.
Take me up on this, but you might as well.
It doesn't cost anything to you.
It costs other people live world, the real world awful lot.
So please, I'm not going to beg anymore, but post the URL of your best persuasive pitch presentation.

--- The Single Best Way to Prepare for All Persuasion Presentation Opportunities ---

Not many of you put your URL in the discussion list, that's OK, but what I do want to stress is that
if you're serious about getting better and better at being more persuasive when you're making presentations,
giving talks, asking people in the workplace to do things, the more you can rehearse on video, the
better.
I do not recommend you just talk to a mere I don't recommend that you close the door in your office
or your cubicle and just talk out loud, practice on video and look at it, figure out what you like,
what you don't like.
The other thing that very few people do, but it's highly effective is once you've come up with a video
you like and you have to share it with me or the other students here, send it to other people in your
workplace who are not going to be the decision makers.
They're not going to be the people who are ultimately going to decide your fate.
But they know enough about the culture, the clients, the prospects, the other people you're dealing
with to know their mindset.
Send them your pitch presentation in a video.
I didn't say the slide deck.
That's the least important part of this.
Send them the video of you speaking and then walk down to their office or call them up and ask them
what do they remember.
Don't just say what did you think they'll tell you, oh, you're good.
You're professional.
Well done.
Meaningless advice.
You want to know what did they remember?
Because if they don't remember anything, how persuasive could it have been?
So that's the ultimate test, not whether you pass my test.
I'm frankly the least important part of this process, but people in your workplace or in your industry,
in your field, they're the ones who really matter.
And with technology these days, there's no reason not to do it.
Everyone is surrounded by video cameras, every phone, iPad, laptop, webcams everywhere.
There's no expense reason not to do this part of due diligence.
Most people don't because it doesn't feel comfortable.
Well, get over it.
Get over yourself.
Everyone else in the world has to listen to their own voice.
Everyone else you're pitching or trying to persuade has to see your face.
So you're going to have to see it and listen to it as well.
But this will help you dramatically.
You'll get fantastic insights from, again, not me, your own colleagues.

--- Persuasion That Takes 6 Months Is Still Persuasion ---

People in the work world who are really persuasive understand that no matter how good your presentation
is, no matter how good your communication skills are, sometimes the person you're talking to isn't
ready to give a yes.
Just because they don't say yes today or endorse you today or hire you today doesn't mean it's no forever.
So you really get to listen.
You've really got to ask them what else they need.
When should we talk about this issue again and listen to them?
Sometimes people will say, you know what, we've just decided we're absolutely not going to hire any
media trainer because the interview was canceled and the board of directors has decided we're not going
to ever talk to the media.
Well, that's a pretty definitive no.
That means I don't have to spend time pitching them.
It also means there's nothing really valuable I could get from the feedback there because their decision
has nothing to do with how persuasive I was.
It also means I don't need to follow up with them.
But sometimes someone I've pitched, someone you might pitch, could say we still got to think about
it.
We're talking about it.
We're undecided.
Call back in two months.
We've got to get through the next annual meeting.
A lot of people just say, oh, I was wanting that quick win.
I wanted to show the sales for the end of the month.
Forget it.
Can't be like that.
You've got to look at the long term, the long game.
So regardless of how you manage your time or your calendar, I use sales.
I'm not plugging Salesforce.
I use Salesforce.
So I just go in every day.
So someone tells me today, call in two weeks or two months.
I'll just put follow up.
Two months from today, it goes into my sales and I don't think about them for two months.
And two months from now, I go to my salesforce.
It pops up.
There's the person's name saying this person has to be called today.
You might use Google Calendar.
There's all sorts of systems.
You've got to manage that on your own.
The point is, listen to people just because they're not saying what you wanted them to say today,
which is.
Yes, approved by invest.
That's not.
And now sometimes they'll say call back in two weeks, sometimes two months, sometimes a year.
Follow up now.
Don't hound someone every other day for the next six months.
If they've just said, oh, I'm not sure yet, that can be a follow up.
I can tell you in my own business, I've had people contact me about media training and presentation
training services.
And it was literally six years between first contact, the first request for a proposal until they hired
me and they hired me many, many other times.
And sometimes they said, we know we're not going to do anything for the next year, OK?
I may have shared newsletters with them and sent them, but I didn't actually call to pitch them for
a year because that's what they asked for.
I get so much of being a good, persuadable presenter, talker, a business communicator is just listening
to what people say.
If they tell you absolutely, no, never, ever, ever, ever, don't ever talk to me again about this.
Well, listen to them.
But if they say maybe in the future, ask them what I do in my own calls and say, so would you like
me to call you and say six weeks or middle of next quarter, which would be three months from now?
And they'll say, well, six weeks will be good.
I listen, I make notes and then I follow up and I try to persuade them again when they asked for me
to do so.
It's not that complicated, but a lot of people just drop the ball.

--- Persuasion Is Sometimes More Effective At the Top Than At The Bottom ---

When you're trying to persuade people inside your organization or outside, don't automatically do the
same thing every time, don't automatically start out at the bottom and work your way up.
Sometimes it's easier to persuade the person with higher rank, higher status.
I'm not saying ignore the little people.
I don't mean to sound condescending at all.
But sometimes a pitch will resonate more with someone who has even more stature.
I remember this is thirty five years ago or going folks, but I was in college.
I was looking for a senior adviser.
I was doing an independent study project on communication, believe it or not, in political campaigns.
So I approached all of these junior professors who had not been tenured thinking, well, they're the
ones who will have the time for me.
And they all said, well, T.J., I'm busy.
It sounds like a great concept.
That's nice.
And I was I'd almost given up because they were all saying they were too busy.
I'm walking past the door of the most famous political science professor at my university.
Well-known guy, had ten books.
He's on network TV all the time, was a well respected, noted presidential scholar and political scholar.
And I walked by the last second.
I said and you know, he'll say, no, but what the heck, why not?
I went him, pitched him on my idea.
He said, Oh, that sounds fascinating.
I'd love to.
It just goes to show you can't discount any possible person that might be persuadable.
Now, if it's your own organization and you're part of a big company and you ignore your boss and your
boss's boss and go right to the CEO, that could alienate and they could feel like you're not respecting
them.
So I'm not saying always go to the highest level person, but look around and figure out of the people
you persuade.
They could be in a lot of different places.
Don't take any one formula that works for someone else and have it work for you.
So, for example, there is an extremely famous, wildly respected consultant speaker by the name of
Alan Weiss.
I like Alan.
I've read all of his books.
If you are a consultant or a speaker, I recommend his books to you.
But one of the things he does is he says that he only deals with the CEO of a company that's worked
really well for his business.
He, by all accounts, seems to be wildly successful and financially in every other way.
But I constantly come across other speakers, other trainers, consultants who've read Alan Weiss books
and try to emulate him.
And they spent all their time trying to get into the sea, the CEO, because they think that's the person
they had to persuade to hire them.
Well, it might be, but it might not be.
Occasionally in my own business, CEOs hire me, but far more often it's not the CEO.
It's the head of the training department, the head of the public relations department, sometimes the
head of H.R. Those are the people who hire media trainers, public speaking coaches.
So that's my focus.
So you've got to figure out again, of all the people you talk to within your workplace, but your larger
work environment, including your prospects and clients who are the best people to speak to, but also
who is anyone that could be persuaded to help you get to the ultimate.
Yes.
In particular decision.
You're trying to get out of them.

--- Conquering Your Fear To Pitch Again ---

As I mentioned to you, just because someone you're trying to persuade didn't say yes right away doesn't
mean you can't come back to them and ask again.
You don't want to be annoying or irritating, but let me practice what I preach, because the vast majority
of you did not record yourself on video giving a persuasive speech and upload it and put the link here
in the discussion, as I asked you to recently.
So I'm guessing that's just one more time.
Again, I'll still love you.
If you don't do it, you'll still get a certificate of completion from you to me, even if you don't
do it.
But I'm still going to ask you again, because I think I can help you even more.
The other lesson from this is I'm OK not being persuasive.
One hundred percent of the time I'm OK.
If you look down and say, well, gosh, not that many people followed up on T.J., he might not be
that persuasive.
No, I don't persuade everyone of everything I'm doing all the time.
Sometimes I stretch further, hoping if I can just get one or two percent, that's good, too.
So that's the lesson I want to leave you with.
Don't be afraid to go back to someone if they haven't given you a hard now, because not many people
have you wrote in the discussion you would never do that.
Don't be afraid to go back and ask again.
Just be polite about it.
Not too needy and also realize it's OK if you don't succeed 100 percent of the time with everything
you're trying to do to persuade people.

--- Conclusion: You are Now Ready to Persuade! ---

Congratulations, you've completed this course.
Thanks so much for joining me in this journey.
I want to wish you tremendous success in all of your future attempts to persuade people in your office.
And I do hope you realize it's not about being perfect today after taking this class.
It's about a process where you get sometimes just one half of one percent better so that over time,
the more you present, the more you talk, the more you pitch, the more you're communicating with your
customers, clients, colleagues, co-workers.
You get better at it.
You get more comfortable at it, you enjoy it more.
You're able to refine more.
You're able to really be in the moment and listen to people so that you can then react and give them
information and messages, the key messages that will motivate them to take the actions you want.
I hope you've gotten a strong sense of the most important tools in your toolkit.
No one actually having clarity what you want them to do.
If you don't know, they won't figure it out.
Number two, narrowing your messages down to just a handful of what is going to motivate them to take
the action you want.
Number three, having interesting, relevant stories to flesh out these messages to make them remember.
And number four, practicing on video, if it's an important presentation or you're pitching people
for superimportant new contract or piece of business practicing on video until you love how you're coming
across, do that, do that consistently.
Learn a little bit from each one you give and you're going to be wildly successful in your ability to
persuade people in the workplace.
I'm T.J. Walker, thanks for joining me.

--- Make the Absolute Best Case for Why Investors Should Invest Capital in You ---

If you are about to give an IPO road show presentation, you're obviously a successful person, you
obviously are very good at a number of things and you're very close to getting a very substantial payday.
So congratulations.
But let's realize there's still a lot of opportunity, a whole range of performance here.
Like anything else in your life, you can aim to be adequate and to not fail or aim to be great.
Now, I'm assuming, since the vast majority of companies remain private, are never big enough, successful
enough to go public, that you have high aspirations and everything else you do in your business, why
not have incredibly high aspirations for your road show presentation to many executives have businesses
that are great businesses, but they look at this whole exercise as almost like their butlers to the
PowerPoint presentation.
Well, the lawyers did all this and the investment bankers did this and the other people said this.
So my hands are tied, I'm handcuffed.
I just have to read through this bullet.
Bullet point.
Ed, no, that's not what your options are when giving your road show presentation.
Your job is to get investors to understand your business, to get excited about it and to invest.
That's what your job is with this presentation.
Of course, you have to have the slide deck and every page and every comma has to be approved through
all sorts of regulatory bodies on your side and the government side.
But that doesn't mean you can't still communicate.
It doesn't mean that the average investor in an audience with you shouldn't be able to summarize your
business to someone else they see later that day and to be able to get it right.
That's what your opportunity is with every presentation you give, there's an opportunity of making
a bad impression, which you're not going to do, or you wouldn't be here.
Not much of any impression, or at least not changing the impression based on what people had already
of the prospectus and all the other documents you provided.
But there's also a chance you can make a great impression to have people talking about what an articulate,
forceful communicator you are, someone who's really going to show passion for the product, the company,
forever.
Now, if you have a company that has soaring, soaring profits every single quarter, revenues triple
profits, quadruple every single quarter, assure you can be an awful public speaker.
Everything's going to be fine for your IPO.
However, that's not the reality for most people.
I do believe that the market rewards companies that have extraordinarily strong communicators at the
helm.
Look at Steve Jobs during his heyday at Apple.
Look at Warren Buffett, Berkshire Hathaway.
Look at Howard Schultz and Starbucks.
Now, you could say those three companies were good companies that were making products.
The fact that they have CEOs that speak well is beside the point.
Maybe there are other benefits to speaking well, too.
I would argue that that's an important element to actually being a good leader, too.
But let's focus on your IPO presentation.
I want you to have confidence and knowing that if someone doesn't do their homework, an investor doesn't
do their homework, doesn't read the prospectus, leaves their glasses at home and simply listens to
you, present that they will still understand your business, get excited about it and want to invest.
I want you to think about that right now before we hop in.

--- Generate Investments and Buy Recommendations ---

Before we really dive into your whole IPO roadshow presentation, I do want you to step back for a minute
and remind yourself what are the goals here?
Our goals are not simply provide all the information that the lawyers and the investment bankers and
the people that provide in a way without screwing up and not getting in legal trouble.
Certainly we want to accomplish that.
But that's not the primary goal.
The goal is to sell our company to the investment community so they feel confident going into the public
markets that they want to, in fact, invest.
But more than that, it's much more than that.
You want to start a dialogue with the investment community, with Wall Street, with the worldwide investment
community.
You want investors in public companies to know who you are, to trust you, to see that you are someone
who understands the business, can explain the business and can answer their questions.
Someone who is transparent, someone who's accountable, someone who can explain to the world what your
business is, why it's great, and why it should continue to grow.
So you want them to really see you as a true leader, not just someone who can explain the numbers.
You've got to do that, but someone who can really explain this business and excite people about the
business and someone who's accountable to this business.
That's what you're after here.
So let's focus on the big picture before we dive into the particulars of how to give this speech.

--- Photos Will Make Your Business More Understandable ---

I worried about PowerPoint, you have had so many people, so many people on the regulatory side, legal
side, investment banking side saying you've got to have this, you've got to have that, put that and
take that out.
I'm not going to try to, at this late state, try to add to your misery.
All I'm going to suggest, though, is whatever your most important points are, whatever is absolutely
crucial for investors to understand about your business, I would like you to have a slide for those
points that uses images, pictures, not words, text, complicated graphs and lots of bullet points.
You can still have one hundred and fifty slides if you want all the other stuff.
All I'm suggesting is if you want people to really remember key points and you shouldn't have more than
a handful of key points and then have a slide with an image, you can put it up just for two seconds.
If it's a powerful image, if it's a picture, it will drive that memory process and investors in the
audience will see it, understand it and remember it.
It's all I'm going to say about PowerPoint.
I know you've got so many pressure on you from so many different directions.
You don't need someone else adding more stuff.
But that one thing will genuinely make a difference.
Help.
It doesn't take a lot of time to put a picture, and it will definitely increase the odds of investors
remembering your key messages.

--- Put PowerPoint to Bed ---

I understand it's a busy time for you, in addition to all the preparation you have to go through for
this roadshow, this presentation going public, dealing with lawyers, investment bankers, IRS internal
communication people, you actually have a real business to run to.
So there's tremendous demands on your time.
I want to give you a ground rule that's going to help your life dramatically during this process and
also warn you about what will happen if you don't follow this ground rule.
What happens in most organizations when they're about to go public is the entire focus of the roadshow.
And the presentations is the PowerPoint presentation.
Now, it's critically important.
I'm certainly not telling you don't use PowerPoint.
You got to use PowerPoint these days.
But here's the thing.
You still have to present.
You still have to stand up, speak to people, get them excited about your business and to understand
it.
And you're the one organizing all these people.
They're all swirling around you.
Here's what's going to happen if you don't impose discipline, your investment bankers, your lawyers,
your people involved with governance are going to be rewriting and rewriting and rewriting the deck
until 30 seconds before you stand up and speak out before it's sent off to the government.
It's it's a last minute thing and you're not going to have time to really practice giving your presentation.
So I would recommend that you create a self-imposed deadline for all of your players so that they really
know that speech has to be that PowerPoint slide has to be put to bed a good week before your first
presentation.
This idea of fiddling with it and fiddling with it and fiddling with it till the very end, people think
they're being helpful.
They think they're covering your you know what?
But what they're really doing is they're preventing you from starting the rehearsal process and practicing
and being able to speak it out loud and to build a relationship with that presentation to get comfortable
with it, talking about it.
So you're going to have to impose some discipline on this process and let people know we got to finish
it.
We've got to get the final OK on this.
And now you're not going to spend your time going through and adding and taking out and adding and taking
out more bullet points and more.
No, obviously we got the numbers to be straight, but you deserve some time to actually get comfortable
with the material, to practice and to practice out loud.
That's far and away at this point.
More important, when it comes to the overall impression you're going to leave on the investment community
now, get if your business is making tons of money and it's wildly successful, you can be an awful
presenter and they'll still invest in you because most CEOs and CFOs are not very good presenters.
But our goal here is to make you stand out right from the beginning as an exceptional communicator,
not just an exceptional company, but an exceptional communicator and a leader who can speak with passion
about your business and your style.
Not trying to turn you into Steve Ballmer jumping up and down.
I want it to be your style, but I want to make sure you're coming across your very best and interesting
engaging way.
So that's my first big suggestion to you, is you've got to give yourself time.
We are not constantly focusing on new slides and new bullet points and rearranging this chart.
You need some time to get familiar with the presentation so you can just practice it.
So put that presentation deck to bed so we can focus on the presentation coming out of your mouth.

--- You Will Make a Great First Impression in the Initial 2 Minutes ---

It's time to practice your PowerPoint presentation for the road show, but here's what I'd like you
to please bear with me.
You're probably not going to have other advisers suggesting this, but it will help dramatically with
your presentations, your overall image and reputation.
I would like you to practice just your opening two minutes what you want to say to investors without
showing the first slide.
I want you to get into the habit of really explaining it, showing them you're the authority, you're
the expert, you're interesting.
You're a strong communicator and you can look at them.
I understand if you feel for the rest of the presentation, you've really got to stay on the straight
and narrow and be looking at slides and PowerPoint, because if you don't, your lawyers are going to
come ZAPU and you'll never be seen from again.
I understand that fear, but I want to stress you could still make a fantastic image for yourself,
reputation for yourself just in the first two minutes.
First impressions are very powerful.
And whether you're given 30 minutes for your presentation or as little as 10 minutes, there's still
two minutes for you to start by looking at investors, look them in the eye, tell them what this business
does.
Tell them how you make money, tell them why you're excited about it and what you're going to do for
future growth.
Let them see that in your eyes and the passion coming out of you before you sort of turn into the butler
for the PowerPoint slides.
So that's my first bit of homework for you.
Let's practice your opening two minutes without a single second.
Not a..
PowerPoint.
You got to have PowerPoint.
But let's have the first two minutes where you're practicing on video and I want you to critique it.
And I want you to tell me what you like, what you don't like, create a list likes and don't likes
for your opening two minutes.

--- Content Review ---

I realize it's very difficult to make changes to the PowerPoint deck, you've had so many people working
on it and vetting it.
But here's one thing I would like you to do.
And perhaps the best person is a legal counsel in the firm that you're using but isn't currently acting
on your case.
I'd like you to send it to somebody where it's legally permissible.
Send them your deck.
Ask them to look at it and call them 20 minutes.
Tell them you're going to call them in 20 minutes.
Make sure they look at and then ask them basic questions.
What is this business?
How do we make money?
What is our competitive advantage?
Why would this be a good investment?
Why is this a great market to be in?
I want to see if they can toss those answers back to you.
If they can.
It means you're in great shape.
Not only do you have all the numbers straight and all the accounting, but the big picture, I'm sure,
with your accounting team, your investment banking team, your legal team, that you're going to have
the numbers straight.
Otherwise you wouldn't go through this whole process for the fun of it.
But I do want to make sure that you're actually conveying the big picture, the answers to those questions.
So it would give you a great deal of comfort, peace of mind, of knowing that your deck and your presentation
is communicating that if not, think about how you can flesh out those points with what you say.
I'm not asking you to create more slides, but think about how you can really drive those points home
with what you say during the presentation.

--- 2nd Video Rehearsal ---

So you've recorded the first presentation, you have come up with your list of things you like, things
you don't like, I want you to do the whole presentation again, including mock questions from investors.
Someone on your team will have to stand in for them.
And I want you to really look at the strengths that you had in the previous one, the weaknesses.
I want you to do more of the things you liked.
I want you to do less of the stuff you don't like and review it again.
Now, if you like this one and you're confident that you look your best, you sound your best, you
like the substance, you like how you're presenting it and you're happy.
That's great.
You're ready to go.
No more need for rehearsal.
However, if you're not completely comfortable with every aspect of style and substance, I need you
to practice again on video, do more of the stuff you like, do less of the stuff you don't like.
Keep doing it until you pass the following test.
It's not to test.
And it's not just your investment bankers test, it's your test.
I want you to keep practicing your roadshow presentation until you can point to the video and love it
and say, wow, that's a great presentation.
I like that person style.
I like the substance.
That sounds like a great business.
I would invest after hearing a presentation like that if I weren't already in the company.
I want you to have that sort of a reaction.
Maybe it will take just one more practice.
Maybe it'll take twenty.
Guess what?
I don't care how many it takes.
Investors don't care.
They just want your best.
But if you have a prospectus that's been through spell check and there's still twenty typos, if you
have a PowerPoint deck and there's still fifteen typos, do you tell people, well, you know, we're
out of time, we don't really want to spend any more time doing spell check, just send it as as is.
Would you do that.
I don't think so.
And yet people have this attitude that, uh, the speech, the part I'm speaking is good enough.
I want you to feel like it's great.
I don't mean perfect in the sense of there's never and that's OK.
But I don't want you to look at the video of your own presentation, say, oh, my God, that's boring.
I'm glad I don't have to listen to me.
That shouldn't be a reaction at all.
I want you knowing how you come across your past, that you've got good material, that you've got a
great story and that you're conveying in your style, with your feeling, with your emotion, with your
emphasis, not my style, not Steve Jobs style, Warren Buffet style, but your style.
But the best style you have.
If you do that, guess what?
It becomes impossible to be nervous when giving a presentation.
The reason people get nervous is they're thinking, I might not be good, I might be boring these people.
I might not be making sense.
Well, there is a danger that you are boring people.
If your head is just down, you're reading the numbers.
So I need you to feel good about this.
This is the ultimate test because you've seen, let's face it, thousands of boring presentations in
your life.
The world doesn't need another one, you know, a good one and a bad one when you see it and you hear
it.
So that's your final lesson here.
Keep practicing your IPO road show presentation until you can look at the video.
I'd be happy with the whole thing.
Once you've done that, you are ready and you will only help yourself with your presentations.
Good luck.

--- Conclusion ---

Thanks for joining me on this course on how to present an IPO road show presentation, if you followed
what I've asked for and you've practiced to the point where you like it, you're going to be in great
shape.
But do keep in mind this is just the beginning.
As the CEO of a publicly traded company, you're going to be spending most of your time communicating,
whether it's to investors, to the public, to your own employees, to various interest groups, stakeholders,
vendors, regulators.
You have a job that requires constant communication.
I'm glad you're taking it seriously enough to have gone through a course like this.
And I hope the one lesson you really take away from this for all of your future communication opportunities
is practice on video until you like what you see.
If you do that, you'll always be confident.
You'll always be at your best.
Good luck.

--- The Secret to Being a Great Presenter ---

If you are a woman trying to improve your public speaking, I do have good news for you.
Here's no one says this, but here's the reality.
Most men who give speeches and presentations are awful.
They're boring.
So it really doesn't take that much to really stand out as a cut above.
And it's not just men, men, women, everyone who gives business speeches, presentations, whether
it's for nonprofits, for government or for the private sector.
For the most part, they're not very good.
Why?
Because everybody makes the same mistakes.
They do data dumps, they read.
They have PowerPoint with lots of bullet points.
Most speakers everywhere are awful, which means you can really stand out is great just by not being
as often as boring as most men are, as most other speakers are now.
I am going to address some specific things that are unique to women in public speaking.
But I will say up front, I think what makes a woman a great speaker is quite often the same thing that
makes a man a great speaker.
And it's rare.
It's rare in both sexes.
And the rare thing is saying something interesting and memorable to the audience.
I want you to focus on that.
The things that make speakers great and interesting and memorable are much more specific to both sexes
than they are different for the sexes.
So please, please keep that in mind.
We will, of course, deal with some issues that are gender specific.
But your first goal should be not to sort of compensate for being a woman or to do something different,
but to look at what everyone else is doing, the men and women, you know, giving speeches and don't
do it like that because most speakers just give boring data dumps.
Thanks for joining me.
Let's hop right in with the first lesson.

--- The Differences Between Men and Women ---

OK, let's clear the air right now on some controversial issues about differences between men and women,
certainly there are some differences and certainly men have some unfair advantages and certain things
and some, they would argue are fair advantages.
Line up one hundred men in general, they might be able to do more push ups then one hundred women of
the same age and general physical abilities.
But that's not what you have to do on stage.
Here's the great news for women who want to do public speaking.
All the things that men could even claim to be doing better than women don't apply in public speaking.
Your strength doesn't matter.
For that matter, height doesn't matter if you're on the stage in front of a thousand people, you can
be four foot ten.
You're the tallest person in the room.
You're higher up than everyone else.
People are looking up to you.
Typical things like strength, brute force.
They don't really help in public speaking at all.
You can't grab someone and say, listen to me and make them enjoy your speech anymore.
So that's the good news about public speaking.
If you're a woman and you've ever had a single interesting conversation with one person in your life,
you already have all the skills you need to be a great public speaker.
Now, I do work with a lot of women in business, in government and finance, in many, many fields.
And I can tell you, women can be as good, if not better speakers than men, not by mimicking men,
but by just doing good public speaking.
And we're going to focus on exactly what those things are in this course.
Now, the other things that are a little bit different and excuse me if this sounds like gross generalization,
but we are talking about the differences between men and women in public speaking.
For example, my sources at the TED conference, the organization responsible for some of the best public
speaking in the world, tell me that far fewer women accept invitations to speak than do men.
Far fewer women nominate themselves and lobby themselves to speak at TED than men do.
But the women speakers actually get a lot more views than the men do.
And the theory behind some of the organizers is the women actually spend more time preparing, rehearsing.
Certainly with my own clients.
I can tell you that is in fact true.
This is one of these things where the more you put in, the more you get at if you practice the right
way.
Now, other things that are different about men and women, I have found and the organizers of TED and
other groups have found you can be a man, be on the job for two weeks.
Someone ask you if you want to speak to a major trade association about your industry.
And the guy will say, sure, why not sign me up?
Even if they know almost nothing about the industry, a lot of women can be working in industry, in
the industry for five years and say, you know what, I'm not quite credentialed enough.
Let me wait another year, then ask me.
Now, of course, there are exceptions to the rule, but in general that is what happens quite often.
Thankfully, if you're here in this course, you're not going to be someone like that.
You're not going to turn down speaking opportunities, because one of the things that makes anyone a
great speaker, a woman or a man is speaking more.
The more you speak, the better you get.
And that's something that is absolutely true regardless of your gender.
I'm here to tell you, you can be an absolute fantastic world class speaker regardless of your sex.
There are some things that are specific to women.
I will address that in the course.
Let's hop right in.

--- Helping You Achieve Your Ultimate Goal ---

Let's start off by really defining what our goals are when we speak and what are not our goals.
I have seen with a number of my female clients, they come in with the goal of wanting to seem serious,
wanting to seem like they have just as much gravitas as their male counterparts to be seen as official.
These are not the goals you should have when you speak.
Here are the goals you should have when you speak to No one, come across a comfortable, confident,
relaxed and engaging never to to speak so that people can understand you.
Number three, to speak, so that people can remember your messages.
That's the hard part for most.
So that number four people can take the actions you want them to take.
If you do that, you're automatically going to be the top one percent of all speakers, male or female.
And those are tangible goals that anyone can achieve if they focus on it.
But you've got to focus on the right goal.
So I want you, for the purposes of this course, to think of a topic that you're going to speak on,
either something in real life you'll be addressing in the next couple of weeks or something that you
might like to talk about in the future.
Go ahead and think of a topic that you're going to speak on.
But now I want you to really come up with this specific goal.
What is it you want people to do?
That should always be the starting point.
The end?
What is it you want people to do from that?
You determine what the message is and what you want people to remember and you figure out ways of getting
people to remember it.
So that's the real goal.
Any time you present, if you do those things, people will assume you're smart, people will assume
you're confident, people will assume that you are authoritative.
They will assume all sorts of other good things if you can actually come across comfortable, relaxed
in your own style, not the style of Mitt Romney or Ronald Reagan or Bill Clinton, but in your style.
And you can actually get people to understand your ideas, remember them and to take action.
That's a huge, huge accomplishment.
That's what your focus should be.
That's what I'm going to ask you to do right now.
Write down what is your goal from your speech and to focus on that.
What I don't want you to do is to go into any speech with a defensive mentality.
Well, I want people to think I'm just as serious as my male counterparts.
So I'll be serious by going through all the data quickly, having more PowerPoint slides than anyone
else and speaking with a people that's not going to work, that's going to make you seem insecure and
boring.
And I'm sorry, but whether you're a man or a woman coming across as insecure and boring doesn't help.
It doesn't help anything.
So let's start off by really focusing on a legitimate communication goal.
If we actually accomplish that, the other things we're trying to get across will happen naturally.

--- Learning to Love Your Voice (Don't Lower Your Voice) ---

You're going to hear me stress throughout this course the need, the imperative to practice on video.
Watch yourself critique yourself, figure out what's working, what isn't working.
But I do want to caution you on a very, very common false diagnosis.
And this is something I see much more frequently with women rather than men, although it does happen
with men to the false diagnosis is this.
You record yourself, you watch it, you listen to it and you conclude, wow, my voice is too high.
People will take me seriously.
I need to sound more authoritative, so I'll lower my voice.
It's just not true.
Ladies and gentlemen, and there are a number of so-called experts who give advice to women.
Oh, you must lower your voice two octaves and you'll be treated more.
That's a bunch of baloney.
I train women and men all over the world.
I ask audience members all the time.
I test them.
What are they remember?
What do they like?
Audience members, men and women like speakers who talk like real human beings who sound conversational.
But what makes somebody conversational?
It's when their voice goes up and down fast and slow, loud and soft.
It's constant variation in your voice.
That's what makes someone interesting to listen to.
That's what makes someone sound believable.
That's what makes someone not sound boring.
And the opposite is when someone is sort of reading a script and everything is sort of the same tone
in the same volume and the same speed, and you're asleep already or they're following.
As you can see now in my PowerPoint slide, the 18th bullet reading monotony.
It's awful.
And that's the problem with trying.
It's one of many problems of trying to lower your voice and speak with a deeper voice than is natural.
If you're acting to bring your voice down, well, then you're acting.
And here's the problem.
Unless you are a full time professional actor and you've been to Juilliard and you've been on Broadway,
people are going to spot your acting as bad acting because most people have seen tens of thousands of
hours of good acting.
They've seen Martin Scorsese movies.
They've seen Tom Hanks, people who have been exposed to good acting.
So when they see bad acting, they instantly spot it.
So if you try to use a deep voice, it just comes across as phony, like you're acting hard.
Ted Baxter, I want to make everyone think I'm very important.
Now, you might not do it to that extent, but changing it even a little, trying to lower your voice
is going to seem like acting and it's going to seem phony and it's going to seem contrived.
Another problem with trying to lower your voice is it destroys the range in your voice and it makes
you monotone.
People don't like to listen to monotone speakers except for Ben Stein.
And I guess that's an example of one of the unfairnesses between men and women is there are some men,
Ben Stein, the comedian Stephen Wright, who've made fabulous careers out of being incredibly monotone.
I'm not aware of women have been able to do that, but let's not use them as our role model.
Do what you naturally do when you are talking to your colleagues in your office, your friends, your
family, and you're comfortable and relaxed.
You use the full range of your voice, high, low farce.
That's what's going to make you interesting.
The other problem with speaking in a low voice is it tends to lower your energy level, makes it harder
to hear if people can't hear you, they can't understand you.
And how are they going to remember your messages.
So I'm begging you, don't try to artificially lower your voice.
It's not what's causing your problems and it's only going to make problems worse.
So use the full range of your voice and you'll come across more believable, more likeable, more interesting.
And people will want to listen to you.

--- Don't End a Sentence With a Question Mark? ---

There is one type of delivery problem that I have noticed is much more common with women than men,
and that is stating a sentence, a declarative sentence and ending it up.
I am one of the best consultants in this field, and I think I can help you if you put a question mark
and you end up at the end of your sentences, the end of your paragraphs.
Well, that is going to undercut your sense of confidence, the perception of confidence and any sense
of you being authoritative.
That is a legitimate problem.
I do think that it's exaggerated.
I can count maybe two clients in my entire life and I've worked with thousands and thousands of women
who've had that.
But if you detect that as we get going through the process of practicing the speeches, video recording
it and listening to it, that is a problem you're going to have to take very seriously.
When you finish when you finish a sentence, you've got to do it with authority, with confidence,
no question marks, unless you're actually asking a question.

--- The Perfect Clothing, Shoes, and Makeup for You ---

It's time to talk about hair and wardrobe.
This is one of the areas that it's just unfair.
There's no doubt about it.
Life is unfair.
It's a lot easier for men than women.
For example, I can wear the same suit, tie and shirt for thousands of videos in my training courses.
And no one will ever combat no one has ever written me so well.
You wore that yesterday.
Men can get away with more of a just generic uniform, whereas women do have their clothes, their hair
analyzed more.
Now, there's no one type of hairstyle that I would recommend, but there are a few things to avoid
if you are speaking up in front of people.
Spotlight is on you.
There are two main things I would caution you about.
One is if you have a hairstyle where your hair is in your eyes and you're doing something like this,
or you're obviously I don't have that problem, OK, but if you're brushing your hand through your hair,
it's distracting.
If you have bangs that are casting shadows in your eyes, people can't see your eyes.
If they can't see your eyes, they can't focus on what you're saying as well.
You're not as the old expression.
The person did look me in the eye.
If people can't see your eyes, it is a barrier between you and the audience.
So there's a whole range of hairstyles.
Don't take your advice for me, but I would tell you this as a rule of thumb, it's best if you're not
having to touch your hair and it's not in your eyes.
And the more it's sort of off your face and people can see the full expressiveness of your face, the
better off you are.
Now, let's talk about clothing.
The main thing you want to keep in mind is nothing to distract.
You want to augment your message.
If you are running to be the president of the American Bar Association, you're probably going to have
a very conservative suit on if you are one of the top creative directors at a Martha Stewart Living
and you're in front of a whole bunch of media editors and you're putting a spotlight on entertaining,
you're not going to want to be in a conservative business suit, whatever it is you're speaking about,
how you're dressed should send that message to it shouldn't confuse people.
It shouldn't make them wonder about what it is.
And in general, you want people to focus on what you're saying, not what you're wearing.
But again, this is one of those unfair aspects between men and women.
A man has a pretty easy time if it's a traditional business setting.
He wears a suit and tie and no questions are asked.
If you are a woman, people are analyzing the fashion sense a little more.
Just make sure that it's consistent with what you're trying to convey and what you're all about.
Now, some of the problems I've seen women get into is if they're standing up on a platform elevated
and the skirt isn't long enough, you can attract people's attention focusing on things that you don't
want them focusing on.
So you've got to be very careful.
Again, I'm not trying to make it sound like I'm a prude and you've got to be a prude and you can't
show any skin.
But if you wear anything that's low cut, if it's you may remember a few years ago, Hillary Clinton
had some shirt and it was a little bit low cut it it was a huge scandal for days.
People talking about all the cleavage that was revealed.
I'm not telling you how to dress, but I am telling you that if you do something with any kind of dress
where the cleavage is showing, that is what people will focus on.
That's what people will talk about.
If you have a serious business message, you probably don't want to give them an opportunity to focus
on other things.
You want them to focus on the business message, therefore, dressing in a more conservative way, not
showing a lot of skin here, not showing a lot of skin on the arms or the legs in general, make it
easier for people to focus on your message.
Is that fair?
Is it fashionable?
I'll leave that up to others.
I'm simply giving you advice on things that will increase the odds that people focus on your message
and you communicate your message.
You can factor the other things into it.
Now, let's talk about shoes again.
This is one of those unfair things in life where there really is a difference between men and women.
I can wear a pair of shoes.
That people either like are not noticed and they have never once hurt my feet at all because the heel
is like that and I have my nice insoles that my foot doctor made and it's as comfortable is being in
slippers.
Many women feel that they must wear shoes with heels, more decorative, more fashionable.
Here's the one thing I want you to think about.
If you are really doing everything you should as a speaker, you should be walking around.
You shouldn't be standing frozen behind the lectern.
We'll talk about those performance skills later.
If you're actually going to be walking around, especially on a stage in front of a large group of people,
you need to be comfortable in your shoes.
If you're standing, possibly speaking for 50, 60 minutes, maybe taking questions for half an hour.
Are you absolutely certain you're going to be comfortable in these shoes for 90 minutes?
And if you're not, I would get rid of those shoes or wear them another time.
The other thing is make sure if you are wearing a heel that you can walk in a way that is 100 percent
natural feeling for you and natural looking to others.
Some people just do not look like they can walk comfortably on high heels above a certain amount.
I'm not recommending you wear high heels.
I'm going to leave that up to you.
But what I'm suggesting is make sure that whatever height the heel is, that when other people see you
walk, it seems completely natural and you're not having any difficulty and there's nothing awkward
about it.
The final thing to think about is you may have that favorite pair of shoes and you always get compliments
on it.
If you're up on a stage, do you want people noticing your shoes?
There's no right or wrong answer there, but if you are a spokesperson for a major fashion line, you're
a fashion designer and you design shoes.
Well, yes, then you want shoes that stand out creative, beautiful.
You want people talking about it.
That's part of who you are.
That's your brand.
But if you are a mortgage broker and you're giving a speech at a mortgage broker convention, do you
want people necessarily noticing interesting ruby red shoes that look beautiful?
Do you want them say, oh, those Jimmy shoes?
Are those Manolo Blahnik?
Do you necessarily want them focusing on your shoes?
I'm not trying to tell you.
You have to be bland and boring like a man and just wear your boring lace up Oxford shoes.
But I want you to make a conscious choice.
What do you want people to focus on your message or what you are wearing?
So make a very conscious decision about the shoes.
And I do want you to be comfortable because if you have the most beautiful shoes in the world, but
your feet are hurting you and you're in pain, that's going to come across in the speech.
People are going to perceive you is not comfortable because you're not going to be comfortable.
I want you to be comfortable so you can walk on that stage.
I want you to be comfortable with how you look to keep that in mind and come up with the right shoes.
Now, a final word about makeup.
Maybe you wear makeup every day.
Maybe you never wear makeup.
If you're going to speak and you're on any sort of a stage and there's light, you need makeup.
That's not sexist advice.
That's advice I give to men and women.
I never go on stage where there's lighting cameras around without makeup.
I have makeup on right now, just power to take off the shine.
The one thing I would note that's a little bit different when you are speaking, say, at a larger conference
and there's a camera on you and people are looking at you on big screens because there's more than five
hundred people in the room, the camera can magnify makeup.
So a little bit of rouge may look almost clownish.
So I'd be very careful about adding, adding, adding color.
Any kind of lip gloss that has a shine may dominate your entire image if they're blowing it up on a
TV screen.
Now, if you're speaking to a smaller group and it's not being broadcast on a much larger screen, then
it's not as noticeable.
But this is where it's crucial to practice on video so you can see exactly how others see you.
Keep in mind, people are judging you on every aspect of your style and substance in the same way that
if we started if I started this presentation and I'm like this and I'm telling you about style and image,
there's a part of you.
Why is this tie like that, does he know, is he trying to be cool, does he think he's just come in
off the ocean and its dapper?
You would be wondering about it.
This would be confusing.
That's why I have a very conventional look right here.
I want you to focus on my ideas, so decide how you want to present yourself with your hair, your makeup,
your clothes, your shoes, make sure you're happy with it so you don't have to worry about it when
you're on the stage or you're in front of people speaking.

--- Public Speaking for Women Conclusion ---

I want to thank you for taking this class on public speaking for women, the fact that you've gotten
here so far puts you way ahead not only of other women, but of almost all the other men in your organization,
because most men and most women don't take public speaking seriously.
They figure, oh, I'll just wing it.
I'll just have somebody create the slides and I'll look at the slide deck a few minutes before.
And I know there will be no problem.
And then they deliver a boring data dump.
Nobody's fired for it, but nobody really remembers anything that person said.
You now have the secrets, the secrets to actual communication.
You know how to look your best sound, your best, come across comfortable, confident, shape a message.
Illustrate that message with very, very specific stories, case studies, examples.
You've got the skills you need to have an outline so that you can deliver the speech with absolute confidence
and not be seen as someone dependent on notes or reading or having to stare at the bullet points.
You've got the skills you need.
Because of that, people are going to remember your message and take the actions you want.
This is going to be great for your career and it's going to be great for life, too, because there's
so many opportunities in life when you can speak and you now can really distinguish yourself and not
speak as well as a man, but speak far, far better than almost every man you know, if not better than
every man you know.
Because as I said in the very first lesson, most speakers are awful and most people just don't work
at it.
If they do work at it, they work the wrong way, gathering more data, trying to memorize, rearranging
bullet points on PowerPoint, complete utter waste of time.
This is an area where you can distinguish yourself for the rest of your career.
And sexism and sexist ideas and gender specific ideas can't hurt you.
Maybe it can hurt you and the CEO's trying to decide who's perfect for the foursome this weekend.
But when people are listening to 10 executives from your organization and the first nine are boring
and awful, and you're actually interesting and engaging and passionate with your message and memorable,
you are going to win that competition every single time as the best communicator.
Thanks for joining me and I hope to see you on the platform and on the stage.

--- You Will Make the Most Important Financial Trends Stand Out ---

We're going to hop right into this course on how to give financial presentations and how to talk about
finance in easier terms, more understandable terms and more effective terms.
But I do want to change orientation just a little bit.
Now, this is going to sound odd for me to say this is the beginning of the course on how to give financial
presentations.
But I fundamentally do not believe there is any such thing as a financial presentation or a technical
presentation or a PowerPoint presentation.
Let me explain what I mean by that is in the audience's mind, that's not what they're thinking.
Sure, they want to hear your topic, but they're not thinking of it in terms of it's a financial presentation.
The only thing that ever goes on in the mind of an audience is in terms of classification, not financial,
formal PowerPoint.
They're thinking it's either a good speech or a bad speech.
It's either interesting, useful.
I'll pay attention.
Not interesting, not useful.
I look at the PowerPoint later, and while this guy is droning on and on, let me just check my email.
That's the only thing ever going through the mind of an audience.
So the reason that's so significant is a lot of smart, savvy business people who are good communicators
in every other aspect of their life, every other aspect of their business have to give a financial
presentation.
And all of a sudden they handcuff themselves.
They tell themselves, well, it's a financial presentation.
So of course, I have to stand here and go through a PowerPoint slide with eighty nine bullets per slide
and chart so wildly complex it has eighty nine different colors of squiggly lines.
No, you don't have to.
I realize that's the way most people give financial presentations.
The reason you're in this course is to be better than most people are in their financial presentations
and to actually communicate.
I define communication as ideas that come out of your mouth and your audience can understand it and
remember it so they can act on it, whether it's to purchase stock in your company, buy your product,
feel better about it so they don't sell your stock.
You want them to do something with the information, they have to understand it and remember it.
The number one problem with every financial presentation I've ever had doesn't matter.
The industry is speakers don't use enough judgment.
They throw out every single number and all the data.
And when you give people everything, you really give them nothing.
So much of your job as a financial expert, as a CEO, as a CFO is to give people judgment on what's
truly important.
So that's something we're going to be talking about in this course, and it's something I want you to
start thinking about.
Now, the other thing I would ask you to do to kind of reorient your thought process, go to you, you
to go to any other file serving, sharing site and Google Warren Buffett, watch how he speaks because
he gives financial presentations and yet he always speaks in a way that's interesting.
That's simple.
That's understandable, and that's memorable.
And you can't write him off is just an Anthony Robbins type or a comedian or an entertainer.
This is a financial guy, very serious financial guy, the preeminent investor of a generation of several
generations.
He's able to talk about finance, whether he's giving a speech, whether he's going on CNBC.
I do believe he should be one of your role models.
And he's the perfect rebuttal to those who say, well, it's a financial speech.
Of course, you have to go through all the bullet points.
PowerPoint is helpful.
It's useful.
It's often essential.
But even more essential is that the ideas that are most important to or understood by your audience
so they can be acted upon.

--- Your Goals Will Be Accomplished After Your Presentation ---

I'm always amazed by hard nosed businessmen and women who are very goal oriented and everything else,
they do a very quantifiable with everything they do, but they get up to give a financial presentation
and ask them, well, what are your goals for this speech?
And it's often so vague and fuzzy.
Well, it's just to inform people about every single thing that's happened during the last quarter.
That's too vague.
That's too general.
That's too fuzzy.
Yes.
I do understand you have to keep analysts updated, key investors, but they can't know everything,
you know, or they would have your job.
They need to know what's most important.
So before you even start your presentation, I need you to ask yourself, what's your goal of the speech?
It may be to simply calm people down.
If the markets have been jittery, it may be to get them to invest.
It may be to get them to not sell.
But I need you to focus on the end goal before you start your whole presentation.
What is that goal to work back from that?
So write your goal down in one sentence.
I want to know what it is.

--- Create Messages Your audience Will Care About and Remember ---

I train financial executives all over the world and I speak in front of financial groups all the time.
One of the first questions I ask people is think of the best financial speaker you've ever seen in your
life.
Now tell me every message, point, number, fact.
You remember from that speech, best speaker in the last year, the last five years, however long you
want to go back, sometimes people tell me they don't remember anything.
Sometimes it's one, two, occasionally three.
Every three months or so, somebody will remember four messages, fax numbers.
And every six months or so, somebody will tell me five ideas, including numbers that they remember
from the best financial speaker they've ever seen.
I've never had anyone remember more than five ideas.
So that's why I start off with the assumption that you really need to focus your speech and come up
with what are the top five ideas in numbers that are really going to lead people to the action you want
them to do, not 50, not 100.
If sales are up across the board and you've got the same store sales up five percent everywhere, but
it's one pumpkin latte that is generating 80 percent of the revenues.
You need to spend some time focusing on the story behind that one sale going up rather than just going
by store, by store, by store of every single dollar where people get lost in the haze.
So I need you to focus on what's most important.
All numbers are not of equal importance.
Every week's revenues are not of equal importance.
You've got to focus on what's most important.
Come up with the list right now, your top five ideas, including numbers you want to communicate in
this speech.

--- Your Stories Behind the Numbers Will Resonate ---

Here's the simple truth, great financial presenters tell a story behind the most significant numbers
in their presentation every time bad financial presenters never tell stories because there's no time,
because I got to go through all the numbers and all the data and there's not enough time.
And since I don't have time, I'll just talk about not enough time and I'll go through all the data
quickly.
So you get to decide right now, do you want to be a great financial presenter or do you want to be
mediocre like everybody else?
If you want to be great, you've got to tell the story behind the numbers.
I don't mean some gut wrenching emotional story.
I don't mean a sad story.
I just mean what's actually happening with this.
No, something went way up.
Revenues went way up.
We went way down.
What is it?
If you had a temporary blip last January because it was the coldest January in 50 years and it was a
one time thing and it really doesn't signify any long term poor health of your company.
Ask people who remembers last January.
I know I was shoveling the snow every single day for thirty days.
Guess what?
We talk to our stores all over the country and they said the same thing.
Our customers can't get here.
They're hunkered down in their home.
Just tell them story that will put a spotlight on light.
Numbers may have gone down briefly.
And yet overall, the strength of your company is in good shape.
So I'm going to give you more tips on how to tell stories.
You may think that it's not necessary for a financial presentation, especially a serious financial
presentation.
It's no time for frivolous stories.
It's no time to try to be a stand up comedian.
But it is time to tell the story behind the numbers.
If you actually want people to get a better understanding of the numbers and to remember the numbers.
So start thinking of that story.

--- Command the Room for the First 2 Minutes ---

So we're going to talk about PowerPoint, don't worry if you're thinking, wow, we're talking about
financial presentations this long and he hasn't talked about PowerPoint yet.
Yes, we're going to talk about PowerPoint.
I like PowerPoint.
I use it every day.
I understand for your financial presentation, you probably want to use PowerPoint.
But here's the thing.
I do want you to realize it's still your presentation.
If it's just about the numbers, email it, stay at home or go sell to more customers.
Don't take the time to stand up and people and just go through the numbers and just go through the slides.
Here's one big tip.
If you do this one thing, you'll be much better at PowerPoint than almost everyone else.
You're giving a financial presentation, you have a deck and maybe you're head of investor relations,
worked on it for three months non-stop and it's 80 pages and it's too late to change it.
Fine.
But here's my tip before the first slide ever comes up, leave the screen blank and just talk to people,
talk to investors, talk to your audience for two minutes.
Tell them the most important thing they need to know out of this entire presentation.
Look at them.
Don't be one of these.
As you can see on my next slide, you don't be the butler to your PowerPoint slide.
Speak with authority.
Show this audience.
You know this, you know it cold.
Do you know what?
Like the back of your hand.
And if you didn't have a PowerPoint, you could simply talk to them for the next hour and answer every
single financial question they have.
I'm not asking you to memorize a 60 minute speech.
I just want you to talk for a minute or two at the beginning.
No slides.
That way you can really establish your authority, you can establish your expertise, and you'll let
this audience know that you are the financial expert.
You're not simply the butler to the slide show.

--- PowerPoint Will Enhance Your Message, But You are Still the Messenger ---

If you're giving a financial presentation, you're probably used to having lots of numbers, perhaps
complex graphs in your PowerPoint, perhaps others in your company help you put that together.
Investor relations team.
And I understand you have to have a lot of that.
I just want to give you one suggestion on one thing to add four really important points.
Try to illustrate your key point with a photo, a picture, an image.
You can still have all the other stuff in numbers.
But for the really important points, drive it home with an image.
Back to my example of why same store sales may have gone down for one quarter, but it was not a normal
thing.
Put a picture of your store.
Let's say it's an ice cream store with six feet of snow in the parking lot that will drive home this
idea.
It was an unusual winter.
That's what drove sales.
It wasn't anything to do with people not liking our company or anything else from that image of the
snow and the snow covering the sign of your Dairy Queen or whatever type of store it is would really
be so much more memorable than simply a chart.
January sales down 10 percent and just the numbers.
The other thing I would stress is beware complexity for slides that you are presenting if you're emailing
a PowerPoint presentation.
And I recommend that you do if you're handing it out, you can have financial charts with graphs that
have five, 10, 20 variables of different colored lines charting different variables.
Someone can study it in silence for ten minutes if they want.
But if you're standing up speaking and changing the slides and they're listening to you and trying to
figure out a little squiggly lines, the brain just doesn't work like that.
That is not how people process information.
So it's not enough for it to look good in your hands.
You've got to think about how does it look to people watching it.
So that's one of the tests for every one of your slides, not how does it look on the computer screen
where you and your staff are creating it?
They're always great there.
The question is, how does it look to an audience member who's in the middle of the room or the second
half of the room?
Every single financial conference I've ever been to.
When I see people use PowerPoint, I always go to the middle of the room and the back of the room.
And guess what?
You can't first of all, you can't see the bottom half of the slides, so you don't know what the person
is talking about.
And for charts or graphs that have different color coded variables, you can't make it out.
It's too small.
It's to find it's too blurry.
The colors are not distinguishable.
So if you want to do a true test on your PowerPoint slides, you need to project it in the room that
you're going to be using for your speech.
And you need to go to the back of the room if you're not willing to do that.
My recommendation don't project the slides at all, simply email it to people, give it as a handout,
email it to them after your presentation.
Instead, just speak to them.

--- Draw Conclusions ---

The numbers speak for themselves.
We've all heard that before.
The only problem with that is it's not really true.
And that's the problem with so many financial presentations.
It's no after, no after, no after.
No, you had to give some numbers.
You may have to give a lot of numbers, but you need to give people guidance on what these numbers mean.
What should they do with the information?
Which numbers are most significant?
How should a rational person act when hearing the numbers?
So you constantly need to be putting into context these numbers you're putting out there.
Don't simply say, well, everybody here is smart.
If I lay out all the numbers, they'll figure it out.
Maybe, maybe not.
Now, I'm not asking you to be some cheesy hype salesman.
I'm not saying these numbers are so great, biased, biased, but I'm not asking you to do that.
But I am asking you to share judgment and to let people know why you think these numbers are so significant
and what an intelligent, rational person should do with these numbers.
So always be thinking about that as you're presenting.

--- How to Give a Financial Presentation Conclusion ---

Thanks for joining me for this chorus on how to give financial presentations, if you've done the homework
and actually recorded yourself and watched and critiqued yourself, you should have learned a lot and
be great now and be very happy with your skills as a presenter.
If you just sat back and watch the video as well, it's giving you some food for thought, but nothing
is going to substitute you actually standing, giving your financial presentation, recording it on
video or having someone else record it, watch it, critique it and try to get it better and better
and better.
Please keep in mind, if you're not yet the CEO, if you're the CFO, an entrepreneur, head of investor
relations, the biggest difference between people who end their careers at your level versus those who
make it to the CEO position, it's not necessarily no skill.
It's not necessarily education.
It's the ability to communicate.
Quite often the CEOs who started off as CFO or previously were CFOs or heads of investor relations,
advanced because their communication skills were so strong that their board of directors said, we can
see this person standing up and speaking to all the investors, all the media, all of our investors,
because this person can communicate.
And unfortunately, other CFOs, investor relations people, they're putting into this corner up.
Well, they can talk the numbers and give the finance staff, but they're not really good at communicating
with larger audiences.
Don't let that happen to your career.
No matter what you do.
You might not ever want to be a CEO, but no matter what you want to do in your life, the ability to
speak effectively will help you reach those goals.
Good luck with your financial presentations and all your presentations in life.
I'm TJ Walker.

--- Your Informational Speeches Will Be Understood and Remembered ---

So you had to give an informational speech at first blush, this seems somehow easier than giving a
big sales pitch, then trying to raise money for a public offering.
There's all sorts of speeches in the world that seem difficult.
Simply giving an informational speech seems like a piece of cake.
However, here's the challenge.
If you're actually trying to communicate, it's not about the information coming out of your mouth.
It's not necessarily about the information on the PowerPoint slides.
It's about the information your audience understands and can remember.
So never lose sight of that.
You've got to really figure out how can you convey this information now for the purposes of this training?
I'm not talking about the classroom setting.
If you're the teacher, that's a different sort of informational presentation and we have other courses
for that.
But I am talking about in the business world, in the adult world, for that matter, you can be a kid
giving a presentation at your Boy Scout meeting.
It's about talking to other human beings outside of the academic arena and getting them to understand
you and to remember your messages.
That's what we're trying to do here.
So if you're ready, let's hop in.

--- You Will Go Beyond the Usual Data Dump ---

So you're giving an informational speech, the good news is you don't have to be wildly entertaining.
You're not the comedian for the night.
You don't have to be incredibly charming.
You're not the master of ceremonies and you don't have to be funny.
So that's good news.
But we still need a specific goal for this informational speech.
I want to know exactly what information do you have?
Do you know that you want this audience to understand?
And remember, now, I got to tell you right now, the biggest problem most people have when they're
giving informational speeches is they give away too much information.
They throw it all out there.
It's abstract, it's disconnected.
There are no examples.
There are case studies.
There are no stories.
Nobody remembers anything.
I'll ask you the same question I've asked people I've worked with for the last 30 years all over, all
over the world.
And that is this thing of the best speaker you've seen, give an informational speech or any other type
of speech in the last year, the last five years.
Now, how many pieces of information do you remember from that speech if you had to go up to a blackboard
now and write it down or write it down on your computer, how many numbers, facts, bits of information
do you remember from the best speaker you've ever seen?
I've asked that question for years, and quite often people don't remember anything or they remember
one point, sometimes two or three.
Occasionally for once every six months, someone will remember five ideas, five bits of information
from the best speaker they've seen in the last five years or maybe ever.
And yet these very same people get up to practice their informational speech in front of me.
And what do you know?
They've got twenty seven bullet points on the first slide and thirteen complex charts on the second
slide and four charts on the third slide.
It's way, way, way too much information.
So here's the dirty little secret.
It's incredibly easy to give an informational speech.
It's much harder or much rarer to give an informational speech where there's a transfer of information
from your brain into the brains and memories of the audience.
So that's really what our focus should be, not just giving an informational speech, but giving an
effective informational speech so that there's an information transfer.
And to not assume, like in an academic setting, the people are writing it down and studying it because
you've got the ability to give them a big test next Friday operating under the assumption that this
isn't a classroom setting where you're giving this information or presentation.
And because of that, we simply don't have the luxury of throwing out lots of data and assuming everyone
is writing it down and studying it.
So everything we're doing in this course is based on this assumption that it's actually pretty hard
to get people to remember information.
So we've got to spend a lot of time isolating what are the ideas, the messages, the information we
want people to understand and remember.
And now how do we spend the rest of the time making it memorable?
Now, we're not doing this to be funny or to be entertaining or to be overly emotional or to convince
people to give us their wallets.
It's not about that.
It's just this basic low level goal of trying to communicate information in a way that people can digest.
That's what it's all about.
So the starting point for you is to figure out what are your messages, what's the actual information
that's most important to you that you want to communicate in this speech?

--- Testing In a Way that Eliminates Risk ---

The good news about informational speeches is that it's very, very easy to test whether it works or
not.
People like to have this idea that public speaking is a soft skill.
Let's take a little puppy and you don't really know what could happen.
It's just a mystery.
Now, that's complete, utter garbage.
Now, if you've done what I've asked so far and you've really practiced on video and you practiced and
you've gotten to the point where you really like a video, you see, and you haven't yet given your
speech in real life, I want you to take that video that you've done that you're proud of, that you
like send it to three or four people who are similar to the audience you'll be speaking to in real life,
or maybe some of them actually are the audience.
Ask them to watch it once and to call you right away.
Once you talk to them, ask them.
Tell me, what messages do you remember from that speech?
What do you take away?
What information do you take away now?
Whether they like your speech, they could tell you they like your speech.
You're great, you're charming, you're charismatic, completely irrelevant.
You're simply trying to figure out did they retain the information?
Now, let's go back to that list of the five ideas, the find five main pieces of information you wanted
to convey in this speech.
Call them up, ask them what they remember if they throw back in your face those five ideas that were
important to you.
And I don't mean the same order, the same wording, but just basically at some conceptual level, did
they throw back in your face the five ideas you were trying to convey?
If so, congratulations, your five, four, five, one hundred percent.
There's not a professional speaker in the entire world who can ever do better than that.
That's perfect.
However, if they're only getting one or two or three of those messages or none of those messages,
if they're just telling you you're great, you're charming, you're fantastic, that means you fail.
That means you now have empirical evidence that the way you convey this information in your presentation
didn't work.
You need to take your speech, tear it up, throw it away and start again.
You can differ with me on my opinions of speaking.
And there's all sorts of theories about who could be right, who can be wrong.
But I'll tell you, somebody who's never wrong, your audience, if they don't remember your messages,
your information, it's not their fault.
It is your fault.
So it's your job to go back, start over if you have to.
Let's come up with messages.
Let's come up with information conveyed in a way that an audience member can listen, not have to write
down everything word for word and remember your message.
Do that and you'll be in great shape.

--- Final Tips on Giving Informational Speeches ---

This concludes our course on how to give an effective informational speech.
What I hope you really took away is the idea of it's not about what comes out of your mouth or even
if you have great eye contact, it's about can you get people to actually understand and remember the
ideas, the information you're trying to convey.
And the biggest problem most people have is they just try to convey too much information.
They're not using their judgment.
So you're not going to make that mistake.
You're going to really use your judgment to figure out what are the handful of ideas, the information
this audience really has to know and then spend your time making it more understandable, making it
more memorable with examples, with case studies and stories, the most effective tool of all.
If you do that and you actually practice on video and get to the point where you like what you see,
you're going to be in good shape.
And if you really want to take it up a notch and just completely eliminate the chance of failure, you
test your informational speech in advance on people.
You find three or four colleagues who are representative of the audience.
You'll be speaking to send them the video and see if they get the information you're after.
They get it, you are ready.
And you were going to succeed if your test audience doesn't get it.
Well, it's time to make more changes to lift the hood up, get back into that speech and make it more
memorable.
Come up with more examples and better case studies.
Keep doing it until you're satisfied with how you like it and how your sample audience likes that.
Do that and you'll be great at giving informational speeches.
Good luck.

--- How to Create a Digital TV Network Overview - YouTube Marketing ---

Hi, I'm T.J. Walker, this is a 10 part series on how to create your own video news channel.
This is specifically, for subject matter, experts, PR consultants, people who own PR firms, run
PR firms or NPR firms or are the corporate communications department for organizations.
This is for you.
It's about how not to influence the news or how to get bookings in placements in the news, but how
to actually create your own TV news channel in a digital format.
I'm talking about videos that you're creating for YouTube, for your website, for other online distribution
points.
Traditionally, PR people, communications people, even subject matter experts said, you know what,
I'll try to get in the media.
And if I create my own media, it will be newsletters, blogs, text articles.
I can't do video because it's too expensive.
It's too difficult.
It's too time consuming.
It's requires too many resources.
And I'm here to tell you, those days are over.
There's simply no rational reason for you not to create your own news network.
Now, if you're a PR firm, you could do two or three videos each week highlighting the specialty or
whatever the news is from your clients.
If you are a large corporation, anything you put a press release out on, you can do a video for that.
If you are a subject matter expert, you can comment, provide commentary on your perspective of something
in the news or if it's evergreen content and put it out there.
Now, the other thing I do beyond media training and training people how to do things like this is I
do political news, commentary, the same sorts of things you would see on a CNN, MSNBC or talk radio.
I provide commentary on the news, so I simply look at 10 stories a day, summarize it briefly and give
commentary.
And let me tell you what this is not for.
These videos are not for people who want to be viral sensations on YouTube.
This is not for people who want to get rich quick with some new marketing scheme videos to get money
out of people.
That's not what it's about.
It's not about how to create a funny entertainment video and have ten million views.
It's not about how to be the next Justin Bieber.
This is for people who can comment and analyze and deliver.
News doesn't have to be the same news that's on the front page of The New York Times or the home page
of The Wall Street Journal.
It does have to be about you either delivering new information or commentary or analysis of new stuff.
The reason that's significant is you're not going to have things go viral.
In most cases, people forget the average video on YouTube has about three views.
Some people say, oh, let's create a viral video.
It shows they really don't know what they're talking about.
Now, I've had videos get more than one hundred thousand views, but most don't.
Most get far fewer than that.
But if you are putting out information on a regular basis and you have an audience that likes your stuff,
need your stuff, once you stop, it won't matter.
You're not doing one entertainment video as if it were a movie and polishing it and working on it for
two years.
You're providing regular content on the news.
So the other thing I'd warn you about be careful of people trying to sell you expensive webinars, expertise
on how to be viral video hits with your news videos.
First thing I would do what I always do when I see someone delivering a webinar seminar workshop on
creating Internet video.
First thing I do and I'm going to urge you to do it right now.
Go to their YouTube channel, click on the About US section.
It will tell you how many views that person has.
Now, I'm being totally transparent.
I have close to three million views on my YouTube channel.
Every time I ever look at another so-called YouTube news video expert, I look at that and they typically
have a couple thousand views.
So you've got to be aware of a lot of phonies out there who really don't know what they're talking about.
Yeah, I'm not the expert on how to be the next Justin Bieber or entertainment guru with millions of
years.
What I am an expert on is how you can create your own news channel, create content quickly, inexpensively,
almost for nothing on a regular basis and develop an audience.
That's what this series is about.
You've probably got the.
Thinking about this a while, you've probably seen other people and you just don't quite know where
to start.
Well, I'm here to tell you exactly what to do step by step.
So look at the other videos in this sequence and we'll walk you through it.

--- Create Winning Editorial Content ---

When you're creating your own digital TV network, the first thing you've got to figure out is decide
what is your focus if you are an automotive website and previously all you've done is text news articles
and you're primarily about reviews of cars, then you need to have videos where it's just you reviewing
cars and it can be similar content to what you're doing in your news articles.
But I wouldn't recommend reading more on that in some later videos.
But you've got to decide your editorial focus now.
You may be a subject matter expert on personal development that can cover a lot of different things.
But if people come to your website, your YouTube channel, or they find you syndicated on AOL or other
places, they need to know when they see you, you're going to be talking about some aspect of personal
development.
It gets confusing if one day you're talking about exercise and the next day you're talking about finances,
unless you have something that really ties it all together.
So define your niche and then you've got to own that niche.
The problem so many people have when they try to start doing videos, as they spend so much time on
the first video and polishing it and editing it and all this futzing around, and then they don't do
another one for a month and they go back to look at their first video.
And it had three views.
So they figure out nobody wants video.
That's not the lesson.
The lesson is you need more content on a regular basis.
You do need decide to decide what the editorial output is going to be.
What is your calendar?
I would highly recommend you do at least two videos per week.
Now, I often do 10, 20 videos a day.
You don't have to do that many.
But I can tell you what does not work is if you just do one video whenever you feel like it, you'll
never build an audience, whether it's on YouTube, your website or other Web sites, and people won't
build a relationship with you.
Why does the Today Show have a large audience?
Because people know they can watch the Today Show every day for the last 50 years.
They know where to find it.
There's that regularity.
Why do so many people read The New York Times?
Well, because they've been reading it every day of their lives or since they became adults.
It's that consistency.
So I would urge you pick an editorial schedule if you tell yourself, well, I'm just going to do a
video whenever I feel like it.
Believe me, you'll never feel like it.
You need to create video content on a regular basis and you need to cover everything within your niche.
If it's stamp collecting, that's one thing.
If it's crisis communications for the energy or energy industry, that's another that.
More about editing in a moment.
Did you notice how I just stumbled over the word energy?
If you hold yourself to the standards of, oh, I can't possibly make a mistake, I have to edit each
word out just right, you'll never finish a video.
That's why I recommend treat each video as if you are live on the Today show.
And don't redo it.
Don't edit it.
Just talk to people as long as you have good information.
The fact that you stumble over a word like energy as I just it won't really matter.
What's more important is that you really have a passion for your niche, that you care about it, and
that you can give other people a sense of what's important, that they need to know why they need to
know it, and that you are a reliable source of information.
That's what needs to come through.
People need to pick up on that every single time they come to one of your videos, it needs to be abundantly
clear.
So make sure people have a clear sense of what your content is all about.
What's your point of view is all about?
When people come to my regular news commentaries, they know what it's about now.
They might not like everything I say.
They certainly are not going to agree with me all the time.
But they know if they come to my primary YouTube channel, I'm going to find a quick summary of a controversial
news story followed up with an analysis from an intelligent, progressive standpoint and a conclusion
and an opportunity for them to weigh in.
So there's no confusion about it.
It allows me to build a relationship with the audience.
So no matter who you are, a large corporation, a one corporation, just one person, it's not going
to matter.
What matters is that you have good content.
Now, as you may have noticed, what I'm doing is simple talking head video.
I do recommend that for most people most of the time.
Now, if you want to do fancy edited video, lots of graphics, Barole, you can still do that.
But I'm a big believer that any organization or individual should also be doing plenty of simple talking
head video.
And I'll explain more about that in one of our future videos coming up in this list.

--- Here is How to Start Your Network Today - YouTube Marketing ---

So how do you do it, how do you actually put together your own digital or Internet TV network?
Now, you may have noticed I haven't yet talked about why it's essential to get this camera or this
lighting grid.
That's because, frankly, the technology part is the easiest part of this.
I'll cover that in one of the future videos.
The hard part is actually deciding to just do it.
I hate to sound like a retread of a Nike commercial, but at some point just do it is what you need
to keep in mind when creating your own Internet video newscast.
You've got to just start doing it.
And if you preoccupy yourself with writing and rewriting and rewriting scripts, you'll never do it.
What I recommend most people do is look at your notes, figure out what you want to say in general,
but then just talk to the camera.
Now, some of you may say, well, T.J., I can't do that.
That's hard.
I'm out of public speaker.
It's not public speaking.
It's you talking to one person.
Now, chances are if you are a PR consultant and in-house communications expert, a subject matter expert,
you already spend half of every day doing this, just talking to people about your area of expertise
or your client or your company.
The easiest thing for most people to do once they get the hang of it is just to talk to this video camera
as if they were having a phone conversation, talking to one client, one colleague or one customer.
Now, it's hard to do it.
First it will feel awkward and then you'll play it back and you'll think, oh, I don't like the way
I look.
Oh, my hair is falling out and I don't like my voice.
And gosh, do I have bags under my eyes.
We all have these feelings.
Guess what?
Get over it.
You know, imagine if Oprah Winfrey had said, well, I'm a little too heavy to go on camera.
Maybe I should be a behind the scenes producer.
No, she didn't say that.
She just went out there and was a real person.
So when you're creating your newscast, what I recommend is simply create a conversation for your Web
visitors, for visitors to your YouTube channel.
And you could be on Dailymotion and all sorts of other sites.
We'll talk about that in one of the subsequent videos here.
But the bigger issue is how do you really get started?
And what I recommend have a simple outline, have a simple focus.
Now, I'm trying to talk to you right now.
I haven't memorized this.
I'm not reading a teleprompter.
And believe me, there's teleprompter programs out there and you can turn your little iPhone into a
mini teleprompter, in my professional view, a complete, utter waste of time.
But there's nothing wrong with notes.
I have essentially this sheet of notes on my computer screen in front of me.
So if I forget what I want to say, yeah, there's a couple little reminders there, but again, you
most likely already have the expertise.
You know, if it's your own PR firm and you're promoting a client's new product, chances are you've
been talking to this client about the product every day for weeks.
You know it back and forth of reporter just called you and started interviewing you or talking to you
on background on the client's new book.
You could just talk to that reporter.
You need to take the same attitude when you're creating these videos because that will make it go much,
much faster.
The big stumbling block for most people when creating their own regular news network, it's not the
technology.
It's not finding the right editing software or the perfect camera, it's simply deciding I'm going to
do it and I'm going to do it without a net.
I'm just going to talk to people now.
I say without a net.
Again, if you create a video and you hate it or you fundamentally make all sorts of factual errors.
You do have a net.
You just hit the delete button and you can do it again.
But what I recommend for most people in most situations, most of the time, nothing is universal.
It is to do newscast videos where it's simple talking and give people great information.
And don't worry about all the fancy graphics and special effects and all the other things.
That's not why they're going to come back to you as a reliable news source on a regular basis.
They're going to come back to you because you give them good information.
And the reality is these days, a lot of people simply want their information in a video format.
You've probably seen the research newspaper readership down, down, down nonfiction book reading down
in many demographics.
But the one thing that is up across the board, especially with people under 35, what's going up?
Video viewing, they're watching it on their iPads.
They're watching it right in their smart TVs.
They're certainly watching it at a bus stop right on their iPhone.
So make your information available to them.
Now, if you're with the major trade association and a member calls up and ask you a question about
what's going to happen at the annual convention and who's speaking, and that's something you have to
know about.
Chances are you could just talk to them for five minutes over the phone, do the very same thing with
your Internet newscast.
You don't have to have all the big role of the hotel where you're going to be.
And Berel is just a fancy word for video and pictures and images.
You can simply talk to people.
And as long as you have good information and they can hear you clearly, then people are going to value
it and they can pass it on.
You're not going to have millions of views per video, but if you even had five views and it's the right
five years, if it's the clients you care about, if it's the media outlet you care about the most,
if it is your six biggest customers, what does it matter if millions of people don't watch your video,
you'll still have communicated in a powerful way.
Now, every media has its own unique strengths and weaknesses, but there is something powerful about
the video format.
It's not necessarily the way to communicate the largest number of data points or the most numbers,
but it is a great way to show people what's really important, to give them a sense of what's important
to you and what should be important to them and that you've got to do by simply talking to them.

--- The Best Style for You Is... ---

So what are your style options if you are creating your own digital TV network?
One option that does work well for a lot of people is simple interview format.
You've got your microphone, you've got your guest, and you just interview them.
What I recommend is keep it simple.
Yeah, three cameras, better than two to better than one.
But for most organizations, most of the time, better off keeping it simple.
Have one camera.
You interview someone for three, four or five minutes, occasionally glance at the camera as if it's
a third person there in the conversation.
For most people, it's much easier to have a conversation where they're talking to someone and looking
at someone puts a lot less pressure on the brain to remember what you're going to say.
And people have a tendency to sound more natural, relaxed and conversational.
So always keep that in mind.
This works especially well for big corporate communications departments because you could interview
a different department head every day of the week or certainly twice a week or twice a month.
So that makes it very easy.
But the downside of doing interview format is you've got to schedule someone, you have to have someone
else to do it.
This is not practical.
If you are an individual solo practitioner, subject matter expert or if you have a PR firm in your
clients or not near you.
So what I recommend and what I do myself is simple talking head video.
I'm looking at the camera.
I'm talking to you as if I'm having a conversation with one person.
I'm not giving a speech.
My fellow Americans, I'm not trying to act like a newscaster where I'm doing like this and reading
the teleprompter.
I'm just having a conversation with you.
For most people, that's the easiest thing to do now.
You can also capture video of someone giving a speech and then slice and dice it and turn it our speech
into a whole series of five minute snippets.
I'm not opposed to that.
But then that constrains you to only creating video when somebody gives a speech, if you really want
to be a news network or a news channel or create a regular news show.
And those are really all the same thing when it comes to the Internet.
You need to have a simple, easy way of doing things on a regular basis.
The simplest thing of all is to just have simple talking head video and to do it in your own in-house
studio.
I'll tell you more about the studios shortly and one of the subsequent videos, but it doesn't have
to be fancy.
This is my regular audience excuse me, a regular office.
There is no audience here.
This is simply a TV screen with a video loop.
I'll tell you more about the specifics of the technology in a moment.
But when it comes to your basic style, you can also mix it up, some interview, some simple talking
head.
What I would not recommend is trying to mimic 60 Minutes because any video store you see on 60 Minutes
had tens, if not hundreds of thousands of dollars of production put into it months of time put into
it a whole team of editors, producers, reporters, travel.
Don't try to make it that complex.
Chances are you do not have the budget for that.
Now, they can justify it because they still have millions of people watching it in advertising dollars
to pay for it all.
But if you are doing PR for a client or in-house or for yourself, there's not going to be an immediate
payoff in terms of advertising.
That's why stress keeping it simple.
So the simplest of all, talking directly to the camera, the simplest for most people to do without
making them awkward, stiff or nervous is to just have a conversation, a one on one interview.

--- Blunders to Avoid ---

What are the top blunders that people encounter when they try to create their own TV digital newscast
for YouTube and other Web sites?
Well, for starters, doing what I did right there, D.C., how can I sound?
Do you see how flat, boring and monotone that was?
Now, I wasn't actually reading, but that's what people do when they try to read a script.
Their head freezes, their voice becomes monotone, huge, huge blunder.
People will hit delete within two seconds if they see that now Americans and increasingly people all
over the world aren't necessarily good at exercising every day, doing complicated math problems every
day.
But if it's one thing Americans are good at a particular, it's watching TV and watching video and they
know bad stuff when they see it.
So if your head is frozen and you sound like a robot and you sound like you are reading something or
memorizing something, other people have an instant revulsion to it.
So one of the big blunders is trying to read.
Now, when you see some top rated news anchor reading a newscast, when you see Brian Williams, Diane
Sawyer reading a newscast, they make it seem natural, smooth, polished.
Well, guess what?
They've been doing it for five hours a day for 40 years.
That's why they're good at it.
I really don't think you want to have to read teleprompter five hours a day for 40 years.
Don't try to do it.
I do not recommend that you try to use a teleprompter.
Now, some people will take up their notes around the room.
Well, yes, our next quarter, we are very happy to see that we are going to see a three percent increase
in new UGG.
Here's the thing, people say, well, T.J., I don't have a great memory.
I've got a post up all the facts there, I'm going to forget it.
What I would recommend is just narrow your focus to a handful of points.
If you need to have notes on a single sheet of paper with really big bullet points, that's fine.
There's nothing wrong with occasionally glancing down and continuing, but creating a video and just
talking to people for a long time, giving them lots and lots and lots of facts is not really the best
way to communicate a lot of facts.
If you can't remember the facts and you're the expert on it, how do you think someone just listening
to you is going to get it?
One of the big blunders is going too long and videos.
I wouldn't try to post 30 minute, 40 minute videos on average.
And this is one of the good things about YouTube.
They give you great analytics on average.
I know people watch my videos one minute and twenty one seconds.
Now, I do go longer than that, but I do try to keep my typical news videos less than two minutes.
Sometimes they go three minutes, but I'm able to do it in part by focusing on just one topic and just
trying to convey a handful of points.
You can't try to convey multiple, multiple topics, multiple points on each topic in one video and
expect people to stay with you.
So that's one of the common blunders to avoid is going to law now in this how to series I'm doing,
I'm trying to keep the videos four or five minutes.
I think one of them is eight minutes.
And the other rule of thumb, I would say, is don't waste too much time writing and rewriting and editing
and narrowing it down just to have an arbitrary length of 90 seconds or two minutes speak as long as
you need to cover one topic and not a second longer, but also not a second shorter.
If people find your information useful and helpful, they'll listen.
One of the videos I've had that had the highest audience in the tens of thousands in the last year was
simple talking head video of me for half an hour.
So if it's important information and you find it important to you and you think your audience will find
it important, it's OK to go a little bit longer.
The biggest blunder you really have to avoid is this trap of perfectionism, and this happens in two
main ways.
Number one, people want to be perfect.
And in their mind, that means writing out the script and then reading it or memorizing it.
The hardest thing you'll ever do is read a script if you want to do it in a way where you don't put
everybody to sleep.
The second hardest thing you'll ever do is try to memorize a script and then talk it out because you're
going to sound fake, phony, contrived.
Unless you are a trained Broadway actor and you've been on Broadway every day for the last three years,
then it becomes comparatively easy, but not doing a new one every day.
So I would beg you, do not try to memorize the script.
Do not try to read a teleprompter instead.
Have a handful of notes.
You can have it on your computer screen or on a simple sheet of paper and you will do much, much better.
The other biggest blunder people make is procrastination.
It somehow seems easier to just type a memo type of blog post type it op ed page.
Oh, once I get more comfortable I'll do the video.
Oh, I'm getting my haircut tomorrow.
Then I'll do the video.
Oh, I'm going to lose a few pounds then I'll do the video.
All excuses that just cause unnecessary delays, just do video every day.
Now people say T.J., you're so good at this.
I have no natural gifts for this above you.
Now, I'm comfortable doing this in part because I've produced seven thousand five hundred videos.
Anything you do frequently becomes easier.
You just become more comfortable.
Now, the other area of perfectionism that causes people trouble is they'll watch the video and they'll
say, oh, I hated the way I said, um, here.
Ah, let me tell you, there's nothing wrong with the occasional, uh, free people I know who say on
more than anyone, David Letterman, Martha Stewart, Bill O'Reilly, what are they all have in common?
They all make about thirty million dollars a year talking all day long and they all say on all the time.
So don't worry about the occasional and and if you do a whole video and you have great, great content,
but then you realize, wow, there's a little wrinkle right here, forget about it.
Now you want to have a professional appearance, but it doesn't have to be perfect.
Avoid the trap of the perfection like that.
I didn't say perfection.
Right.
Keep on going.

--- Establishing Your Winning Job Interview Goals ---

So you've sent out resumes, you've networked, that's great, but it only takes you so far, it takes
you to the job interview.
It's extraordinarily rare to actually get hired for a job, especially a well-paying job, without going
through a job interview.
Now, this gets a lot of people nervous, uncomfortable.
What do I say?
I don't know what to do.
I feel awkward.
Well, you've got to really step back and come up with a game plan before you go into every single job
interview.
Let's look at what the fundamental goal is of this job interview.
The goal for you is to get a job offer.
Now, you may have tons of job offers.
You might not have had a job offer in 10 years.
Doesn't matter.
You still want them to want you.
You want an official offer.
You can then either accept or turn down or start the negotiation process.
But let's not lose sight of what this job interview is about.
It's not about you answering all the questions correctly.
Now, you do have to answer questions.
It's not about you showing them you're smarter than anyone else.
It's not about you simply showing up on time.
It's not about you going through your resume in chronological order.
It's about two things, making them convinced you are the best possible applicant to get the job done
that they need to do and convincing them that they want you in their office or their workplace on a
daily basis because human beings are social.
They will tell you this and the job interview, but nobody wants to be around someone all day long or
the coffee pot or conference rooms.
Who is annoying, who is obnoxious, who doesn't seem like a team player.
So you need them to like you.
You actually need them to make them think this would be a good addition to our team.
Doesn't matter if it's a construction job outside.
Doesn't matter if it is purely an office job with cubicles.
You've got to make them convinced that you're likable and that you have the qualifications, the skills,
the drive, the passion to get the job done.
So everything else I say in this course is about helping you ultimately get the job and accomplishing
those two objectives in the job interview.

--- Secrets to Acing the Interview Before You Show Up ---

The first part of preparing for any job interview happens long before you ever stepped foot in that
office.
You've got to do your research now.
It constantly amazes me how many people will spend two, four, six, eight hours a day clicking and
responding to job request, sending out a resume.
They'll spend all that time and of a week.
They've spent dozens and dozens of hours sending out resumes.
And now you've finally got a job interview.
Maybe it's only the first interview in three weeks and you spend almost no time doing research for that
interview.
Now, you've got to do a lot more than simply going to the organization's website.
Of course, you have to go to their website and you need to look at every page on that website.
You certainly need to look at their press page to see what's going on in the news, what developments,
what new acquisitions, good news, bad news.
You also need to Google the company and find out other news about what are other people saying about
this company?
What's the good news?
What's the bad news?
If you know the name of the person interviewing you, Google that person.
Find out what you can look at their profile on LinkedIn, see if you can find out what their interests
are.
How long have they been with the company?
It's virtually impossible to know too much about a company or organization you're working with.
But don't just stop there.
You've got to do research on their competitors.
First of all, you've got to know who their competitors are.
And then you've got to go to their websites.
You've got to research news about them.
You need a strong, strong sense of where this company fits into the overall competitive landscape,
because without that, you're not going to be able to have an intelligent conversation with the organization
and with the person you're meeting with.
If you don't have that, if you just sort of walk in them when they say any questions for us, we'll
tell me about your company and what you do.
If you do that, you're basically finished.
Certainly you've destroyed your chances for any highly competitive job that's well paid.
You're showing you don't have interest in their company.
Everybody, I don't care how boring the company or the industry is, they want someone applying to them
who has a keen interest in what they're doing.
Someone will be a motivated employee, someone who's happy to show up.
So you've got to do your research, go to their website, check out their press page, look at any new
innovations, make sure you really understand the products they offer, the services they offer, get
a strong sense of the competitive landscape.
Who are their customers?
See if you can find out who their biggest customer is, who's their newest customer, who are their
competitors.
Also, do some research on the top executives of the company.
Even if you're not meeting with them, the more you know about what they do, what they like, what
they don't like, even the charities they're involved with, it can't hurt.
So try to have some balance between the amount of time you spent sending out resumes, looking at what
ads online or in person in the real world, networking versus preparation for that job interview.
Most people have it really, really skewed, 40 hours of sending out resumes for every half hour of
research.
That's not the way to do it.
And if a company isn't worth spending an hour researching, maybe it's not even worth your while to
drive downtown or take mass transit to go to the interview, you've got to really know what you're getting
into to increase your odds of acing that interview and to go in with confidence, knowing you've got
something to talk about.
You're not just some ignorant person who's going to waste their time who says the same generic thing.
So tell me about your company and what are you looking for?
That's awful stuff.
You don't want to be like that.
You want to be seen as a real industry player, even if you're twenty two years old, for that matter.
Eighteen, it's your first job.
You want to be seen legitimately as someone who knows about the industry, knows about the issues affecting
this organization.
And it's not like when I was graduating from college thirty years ago.
It's easy now.
It's all there at your fingertips.
You just have to spend time doing research online, ideally maybe talking to some people.
You may even know people who already work for the company even better.
But if you don't at least do the research online so you really know what you're talking about.
So that's your homework right now.
Pick a company you'd like to have an interview with and do.
Some research investigate everything about them on their own website, come up with the three or four
organizations you think are their competitors.
Find out what you think are their top clients.
Do that research right now.

--- Dress for the Interview and the job ---

So how should you dress for your job interview?
It's important that you fit in, that you show you understand the customs, the norms of this particular
organization in this industry.
Now, most of my clients are business people who wear suits.
That's why I'm wearing a suit.
This would look ridiculous if you're applying to be a busboy or if you are applying to be a graphic
artist somewhere when they're expecting you to be artistic and casual.
So you've got to know what it is that's the norm for dress in the workplace where you're going.
Sometimes you just might not know.
You may want to ask the person who's scheduling the job interview with you.
Now, if all else fails, most of the time you're in good shape if you dress slightly more formal than
you might otherwise.
If you really don't know, there's nothing wrong most of the time for any kind of office job of wearing
a suit and a tie.
If you're a man of wearing a conservatively tailored dress or a suit jacket, if you're a woman, if
the person interviewing you is wearing a polo shirt and slacks and you're in a suit and tie, chances
are it won't work against you.
They'll simply think, well, this person was respectful and made an effort.
What you don't want to do is go in with a t shirt and shorts and the person interviewing you is wearing
a tie or wearing a sundress.
And the person interviewing you is in a very conservative, tailored outfit, because if that happens
the whole time you're there, you're thinking, oh, I've already lost this job.
I look like an idiot.
I look like a fool.
And even if you're not thinking that you don't want the person interviewing, interviewing you, thinking
this person doesn't really get it, they don't really understand our industry, not quite sure they
would fit in.
You don't want to call attention to what you're wearing unless you're going to be a fashion designer.
But if you're someone interviewing for most industries, you're not a fashion designer.
You want what you're wearing to fit in.
There is a uniform in every industry.
If you're going to a really cool, hip nightclub to be a bartender, maybe the uniform is all black
and something that is cool looking.
I'm not saying everyone has to look the same or sound the same.
I am saying you need to be aware of fitting in with the organization you're interviewing with so that
they don't have to wonder why is this person dressed like that?
So give it some thought to how you look, how you're dressed, how you're presenting yourself if you
have some crazy wild hairstyles with your hair.
Not my issue these days, you may want to tone it down for the first day unless you are interviewing
at a nightclub or some sort of artistic design house.
How you look needs to fit with what you're going for.
Now, you can say all day long, oh, I wouldn't want to work for anyone who's judgmental, but if you're
going to work for a very conservative financial organization and you have a whole lot of tattoos on
your arms, maybe you want to wear a long sleeve shirt that day or a suit.
I'm not asking you to be fraudulent.
I'm not asking you to hide your true self.
But you do want people to focus on your message, how you can help them and why you would be an asset
to the organization.
You don't necessarily want to distract them with wearing flip flops or footwear.
That just seems wildly inappropriate.
So before you go into that job interview, you really need to look at yourself from your feet to the
top of your head and ask yourself, is this how I want to come across?
And is this how I think someone would be seen as fitting in with this particular organization's culture?

--- Make Small Talk like a Pro ---

So you walk into the interview, you're sitting down, the person who is interviewing you is about to
sit down behind his or her desk.
What happens right now?
Sometimes there's an awkward silence.
It might be awkward for the person interviewing.
They might be nervous.
This is the perfect time to make small talk.
Now, people like to pride themselves and say, oh, I'm not good at small talk.
I'm all about substance.
That's the wrong attitude to have.
Don't look at it as small or unimportant.
Just look at it is something that you have to do that you need to do to express your humanity and to
show this person interviewing you that you are, in fact, a human being.
Now, I'm not suggesting lie or ingratiate yourself or pander, but if you're looking at the wall and
the person has various photos holding up big fish and you like to fish, say, wow, what is that,
a 10 pound bass?
I've never caught one that big.
And I've tried many, many times.
If you see them surfing and you're a surfing fan, comment on something that you have of commonality.
Again, hiring someone for a job isn't simply about GPA numbers on a box certification.
If someone's hiring you, they're essentially bringing you into their life.
Many people spend more waking hours, have more conversations with colleagues they work with, and they
do their own spouse or children.
So they might not tell you this, but they only want to hire people they actually like.
And that doesn't mean you have to be best friends.
But the idea of hiring someone where, you know, you can never have a conversation with them about
any aspect of commonality in the lunchroom or over coffee isn't something most people find appealing.
So if you can find something that you have in common with the person that you can gather from a picture,
maybe they have a toy sailboat replica up on their wall, find something you have in common and comment
on it.
Now, you don't want to talk about that for an hour, but for the first couple of minutes, it can warm
the room up, make that person feel more comfortable about you as a human being.
And the conversation can be much more natural as far as the job, your qualifications and why it might
be a good fit.
So small talk is not necessarily an extra it's not fluff.
It's an important part of the entire interview process.

--- Tell Me About Yourself - And be Memorable! ---

So tell me about yourself.
Many people dread that question in a job interview, and, you know, it's not even a question, it's
just a statement.
Tell me about yourself.
But you know, it's coming.
So don't act scared.
Don't act surprised.
And don't say.
Well, as you can see from my resume, I graduated from Duke University last year and I majored in such
as they've already got your resume.
So don't just go over your resume when someone says, tell me about yourself.
What they really want to know is tell me about your life experiences that are relevant to why you might
possibly be interested in this job and why you might be good at this job.
So its job is actually a good fit for you and a good job for us.
So it doesn't really matter what the first question is in a job interview.
Does it matter if they say, can you tell me about yourself or why do you want this job?
Or why is it it doesn't matter what the questions are?
Now, this isn't because I'm trying to teach you to be a phony baloney politician who ignores the questions
and just goes right into the message points.
I think you should hire me now.
You need to listen to the questions.
You need to answer the questions.
But you do need to realize your fundamental job is getting this person to think that you are highly
qualified, that you can do this job, that you want to do this job, and that you would be a good fit
around here, that you would be a welcome addition, an asset to this organization.
That's your job.
It's not to read to them from your resume when they already know how to read.
It's not to simply restate basic qualifications.
So, for example, many, many years ago I was on a job interview for with a member of Congress and
a communications position, a press secretary position.
Now, my resume said communications experience, strong passion for communicating, but when the member
of Congress said, well, tell me about your interest in communication.
I didn't just go through the bullet points.
I said I have a passion for communication and I think I can do it creatively.
For example, I was working on a political campaign for a candidate who wanted to draw attention to
the pollution in a particular river.
So I called all the media.
I had the candidates stand at the river and hold up dead fish and he said, vote for me and I'm going
to do everything I can so we don't have more dead fish.
You made every single TV newscast.
It got in every newspaper in that town, and it really drove home the message visually that this candidate
cares about the environment.
Later, when I asked the member of Congress why she hired me, she said it was that still she said it's
this.
It was the fish is what she said.
It's stuck.
It's stuck in her memory.
And you've got to find something that sticks for you to what you need is a story.
I don't mean something made up.
I don't mean something fictitious.
I don't mean something creative.
But you've got to tell people why it is you're in this particular field.
What drove you there?
What motivated you?
What got you excited about this particular job?
Now, if you're applying to be a landscaper to cut grass and your lifetime goal is not to cut grass,
I'm not suggesting that you lie, but just talk about how you got there the first time you cut grass,
you just say, hey, I was twelve years old and I needed money for a new bicycle and I didn't have any
money.
So my dad says, cut the grass or wash all the dishes for a week.
I tried the dishes.
I just couldn't stand it.
I cut the grass.
I liked it.
Gave me a sense of satisfaction.
You start it, you finish it.
It looks a lot better.
And I've been doing that in my neighborhood ever since.
Now I think I could do it for bigger homes.
Better machinery with a company like yours is an example.
The whole point of this is you've got to take this resumé and blow life into it.
People have to see and understand and visualize what it is you've done.
Now, if you're only sixteen and this is your first job interview, you perhaps haven't done that much.
But certainly you've done something around your home.
You've done something for your school, perhaps with extracurricular activities that demonstrate a particular
skill you need.
A signature story that is just a way for you to talk about what it is you've done, you need to talk
about a particular person, a place, what the exchange was and how you felt.
I could tell you I felt very good about getting that job on Capitol Hill for a member of Congress.
There are certain jobs that you may look back on and say that was one of the best jobs ever or that
was one of the worst jobs ever.
But you need to have a story of the resume that gets you in the door.
Resumes, don't get anybody jobs.
It's how you sell yourself in the job interview that does now you hear the word selling and people say,
well, I'm not some high pressure salesman.
I'm an expert on law or public health or this.
I'm not some I'm not asking you to be a high pressure salesperson, but in fact, the best salespeople
don't ever use high pressure.
They simply present information.
That's interesting.
That's useful.
That's relevant in a memorable way.
That's all you're doing when you aren't selling yourself.
So when that job interview says, can you tell me about yourself?
You need to hop right into something that demonstrates your passion for a particular subject area and
then weave that into how it's relevant to this job.
What you don't want to do is the full chronology of your life.
Well, I was born in Pittsburgh and at age five, I moved to Charlotte, North Carolina, and I went
to Star Mountain.
Boring.
You got to be a better editor.
That's not a story.
That's just basic facts on a timeline.
So what seems like a hard question.
Tell me about yourself is actually the easiest question in the world.
It's a softball.
It's a way for you to sell yourself to convince this person that you have the right background, that
you have the right interest, that you have the right skills, the right experiences and the interest
for this job.
So it's not the hardest question in the world.
It's actually the easiest question if you have your story straight.
Now, a lot of people get confused about story and they think it has to be so dramatic and you save
the world or you went to work.
Now, all it has to be is you telling about something that happened to you, perhaps a problem, how
you solved it, how it used some of the skills that are relevant to this job and how it led you to this
spot in your life where you're applying for this job.
Now, do that and you'll make your resume come alive and you will make it easier for the person interviewing
you to remember you, because here's the big problem most people face in job interviews.
It's not that they say the wrong thing and the person is sitting there and scratching you off, well,
they're gone now.
That's not the danger most people have.
It's also not a situation where you're asked a so-called tough question and you're up.
You failed to answer that.
Off you go.
That's not what gets most people scratched off in job interviews.
The big problem most people have is their resume is fine.
It's like everyone else's who made the cut.
They may be perfectly articulate.
They may be dressed well.
But when that interviewer interviews five more people today and three more people tomorrow and two people
on Tuesday, and now it's a week later and they're thinking, who did I like best?
Who are the top three candidates?
They just don't remember you because nothing stood out.
That's the real danger most people face when they're in a job interview.
So you've got to figure out how can you make yourself stand out?
How can you make your resume come alive so that people associate you with the skills you claim you have
because everybody's resumes playing, they have great skills.
That's your challenge.
How can you stand out having a good story?
Having a good answer to this question, can you tell me about yourself is absolutely essential.

--- The Proper Job Interview Mindset ---

So what's the best mindset to have when you're in a job interview, some people go in sort of scared,
nervous, not sure about this.
Some people go in very, very respectful, deferential, perhaps even too deferential.
There is a particular mindset that I do find is helpful for most people to have in most job interviews
situations.
No, nothing always works one hundred percent of the time.
But here's the mindset that I do find works, and that is to go into a job interview with the idea,
with the attitude that you already have the job, that you have essentially been hired as a consultant
for the last two weeks to come up with ways for this company to make more money or this organization
to fulfill its mandate more effectively.
Now, I don't mean act arrogant.
I don't mean to start negotiating for extra vacation time.
It can't have a whiff of arrogance.
But what I mean by this is to come in with so many ideas, so much passion for the organization, their
mission, so many ideas that you seem like someone has already been working for them.
This is where your preparation is.
So, OK, this is where your research really comes in.
If someone says, well, do you have any questions about the company in the job interview?
Most people have really, really superficial questions like, so what are your plans for the future
or how long is the company been around questions that you didn't even do your homework?
What you want are questions that show real insight.
So, for example, when someone came to my media training company and I said, do you have any questions
for us?
They said, well, T.J., I see you have all these books on media training and public speaking training.
And by the way, your secret to full power of presentations was my favorite book.
But I'm wondering, are you going to be coming out with a book just for people on how to use a teleprompter?
Now, my first reaction would be that stupid because people are using a teleprompter is too small of
an inch.
It wouldn't sell anything.
And that's something better off for video, not a book.
But my reaction towards the person asking the question would be, wow, this person really cares about
what we do here.
This person has done their homework.
This person is actually looking for ways to help me make more money.
I like that.
I would probably give that person, if not a job, at least some assignment, just to keep that person
in my orbit for asking a question like that.
And that's why your research, your preparation is so important.
You need to ask thoughtful questions that show you've really given some consideration into the goals
of this organization, how they make money, how they service their clients.
Doesn't matter if it's a big oil company or a social services government organization.
Every organization has someone they must speak to, has someone who holds them accountable, has someone
they're responsible for.
If you can come into this job interview with this mindset, you're already working for them and say,
what about this idea and this idea and have you thought about this?
Even bad ideas are better than no ideas.
And the problem most people have when they go into a job interview is they don't really have any ideas,
doesn't mean they're dumb, doesn't mean they're not capable of it.
But they have the attitude of, well, until they're given me a paycheck, I'm not going to do any heavy
lifting, wrong attitude to have.
Because if it is a company that you like, an organization you like, and it seems like a good fit,
why not spend just an hour or two in preparation rather than blindly emailing more resumes out that
go into a black hole?
So that's why I suggest walk into that interview as if you've already been hired, you're already on
the team, you've been a consultant, you've researched strengths, you've researched weaknesses, and
you have some suggestions.
You have ideas and you have questions.
But your questions are very specific to how the organization can do better, how they can get new clients,
how they can break into new markets.
Your questions are not.
So how many official holidays do we get?
How long is lunch break?
Do I get a smoke break?
Those questions are not going to help you get the job.
I'll give you some more tips in a moment on the next video of how to even go into more detail on this.
But critically important, walk in to this interview with the mind set.
I'm already on your team.
Already have this.
I've been thinking about you and working on ways to help this organization already for the last week.

--- The Strategy Memo ---

I want to give you one very, very specific advanced tip that I believe will help distinguish you from
all the other people who get a job interview with this organization.
And here's the tip.
Don't simply walk in with an extra copy of your resume.
Of course, you do need a copy of the resume, even though they should have one on file, or how would
they have called you for the interview?
You do need another paper.
People still do like to read paper, sometimes paper copy of your resume.
But I would also suggest you have another sheet of paper.
It's a one page memo.
And in this one page memo, I would spend twenty five thirty percent of the page summarizing what you
think are the key strategic strengths of this organization.
What this is doing is it's showing you've done your research that you can write, that you can communicate,
that you can process information and that you value the organization, that you see what they're doing
well.
But the bottom two thirds of the page, I would come up with suggestions, ideas, whatever you want
to call it, on how to improve the organization.
Now, there is some risk to this because someone could always be offended.
Well, they are criticizing something I'm doing by suggesting we need to do this.
But here's what I've noticed.
Most employers are impressed by anyone who's given time and thought and energy to how to improve things.
So coming up, with just 10 ideas, it could be bullet points of very specific things the organization
can do, perhaps a little differently.
A new market to enter, perhaps an ebook on a particular topic to reach certain customers, come up
with 10 ideas and present that in the interview, say, hey, I'm so excited about this company.
What I've learned about you, I hope you don't mind, but I took it upon myself to do a brief memo on
what I think the key strategic assets are of your company and possible areas for improvement.
I realize I certainly don't know everything at this point, but I do want you to have a sense of my
general thought process.
I'm willing to bet that ninety eight percent of the time, if you did that, an employer would be extraordinarily
impressed because even bad ideas are better than no ideas.
What you're doing in this memo is you're talking about them, not yourself.
Here's the little secret about job interviews.
The more you talk about that person, that company, that organization, the less about yourself, the
better off you are.
People care about themselves.
They care about their organization.
They care about how you are going to help them.
They're not hiring you just to help the unemployment rate.
They're hiring you because you can somehow make their life easier, help them make more money, help
them serve more customers, clients, patients.
Everything you do has to be focused on that.
And that's why this little secret strategy, a one page memo, I'm not suggesting quit your other part
time jobs, stop job hunting and write some 30 page treatise, just a one page memo, spend an hour
on it and come up, brainstorm ideas on how this organization can be better.
Even if you just have one good idea and the others are horrible, they're likely to remember that idea.
Even if they think all of your ideas are horrible, they're going to be impressed that you took the
initiative to create something, to produce something.
And they can see that you can write clearly, that you can write concisely, and that you can present
a proposal that's going to go a long way towards distinguishing you in this job interview.
I can tell you I've never had anyone do that in a job interview with me, but if they did, pretty good
chance I would hire them.

--- Rehearse Your Interview on Video ---

So let's say you've done all the exercises so far, you've watched all the videos and you're still nervous
about that job interview.
What are the things you can do to reduce the nerves?
For starters, give yourself extra time if it's something takes you a half an hour to get there and
your job interviews at 11:00, don't leave the house at 10 30, because even if everything goes well,
you may find yourself walking very quickly that last two blocks to get to the job interview and you
could be sweating.
You don't want to get there.
And all of a sudden, oh, no, I'm sweating, I'm perspiring, I'm oily.
Give yourself plenty of time and allow for a bus delay, a mass transit delay, traffic jam.
If you're driving, give yourself extra time.
If something takes you a half an hour to get there, give yourself a full hour so that you have plenty
of time before you walk in.
You're collected, you're not rushed, you're not out of breath, you're not flush, you're not sweaty
and you're completely comfortable.
OK, now for the number one tip on how to completely eliminate your nerves here, it's exactly what
you need to do.
Find a friend, colleague, a family member, tell them the company you're interviewing with.
Give them a few sample questions.
You think that the person interviewing you might ask some of them are obvious.
Why should we hire you?
Tell me about yourself.
Why are you interested in this position?
Have your friend, family member or colleague ask you these questions?
But here's the trick, you're not going to like this, but it's the number one thing you can do to give
it a nurse, give your family member or friend a cell phone and have them record the entire fake practice
job interview with you.
I know you don't want to do it, but guess what?
You need to do it because if you're in the job interview and you're nervous and all of a sudden you're
doing this, doesn't really matter how good your answers are.
You're not going to leave a good impression with that individual interviewing you.
They're going to think you're a little strange or high strung or weird.
So that's why you need to practice on video.
What makes us nervous quite often is not knowing how we come across.
Are we speaking directly or generally speaking, too softly?
Are we somehow shouting and we're not aware of it?
It's very easy to find out.
You just record and then you have to watch it.
I know you don't want to watch it, T.J. and like my face and I like my voice.
Well, guess what?
The person who is interviewing you has to look at your face, so you might as well do it to the person
interviewing you has to listen to your voice.
So you might as well know how it comes across.
So you've got to have your friend, colleague, family member interview you.
You've got to record it on video.
If you don't record it on video, it really doesn't help much.
And that's the same with practicing in front of a mirror that doesn't really help you practice in front
of the mirror and words are coming out of your mouth.
But you're thinking I my nose a little crooked right in front of my eyes, too.
Don't practice your job interview answers in front of a mirror practice with someone asking you the
questions and you videotape it and you watch it.
But you've got to watch it really carefully.
You got to figure out what do you like, what do you not like.
If you noticed that the first two minutes of an eight minute interview, you're speaking really quickly
and rushed.
Make a note of that and practice it again, consciously speaking slower in the first two minutes so
that even though you are nervous, you don't appear to be nervous.
So here's the real trick.
You have to keep practicing until you like your answers on video.
You've got to like how you look, how you sound, how you move.
You can have the best dancers in the world if you're kind of like sitting back like this, arms crossed.
It's can be extraordinarily difficult to leave a good impression with that.
Interviewer You need to be leaning forward when you're talking to this person, interviewing.
You need to be leaning forward, listening to them.
Your hands actually need to move.
You shouldn't be holding pencils, holding books in the middle of the job interview.
You shouldn't be sitting on your hands.
You should do it.
All people do when they're comfortable talking their hands.
Move, disregard all the sitcom advice about how you're likely to be nervous and do this.
Now, people don't actually do that in my experience.
So you want your hands to move naturally.
Now, if absolutely nobody will rehearse with you, then just practice yourself.
Ask yourself a question, hit record on your video and tape it and keep doing that until you like it.
Now, it may be you do it in one take and you love it.
You're confident and you're ready to go in.
It may be you have to do one day.
I don't care how many it takes, but if you want to get over nervousness, number one way of doing it
is practice your answers on video and tell you love.
Every aspect of style and substance do take after take after take.
If that's what it takes now, this will get faster.
This will get easier.
The more job interviews you go on, you'll spend less time on this because you'll get better at it.
You'll get more familiar with it.
But don't just think in your head about your answers.
Don't just write it down.
Don't just rely on your memo.
You must practice your answers on video, watch it, listen to it and tell you like it.
Then your nerves will disappear.

--- Ask for the Job ---

So you've accomplished everything you want of the job interview, you feel like it went well, how do
you end it?
You don't want to just look at your watch.
Oh, I know you've got other people to interview.
Let me get out of here.
You don't want to wait for the person who's been interviewing you to say, well, we're out of time,
get out of here.
You need some way of concluding.
That's graceful and that's positive.
That ends with the ask.
What I mean by that is in a sincere way, a non pushy way.
Ask for the job, not be sincere about this.
Sometimes you get into a job interview and you can tell you would hate this job.
It's not a good fit.
They wouldn't like you.
You wouldn't like them, in which case you just thank people for their time.
But let's say you're in a job interview.
It goes well.
It seems like a great company or a great organization.
You'd like to work there.
You legitimately think you're a good fit and you have the skills.
Don't just thank the person and say thanks for your time.
Instead, sum up.
Say, you know, I really appreciate you taking the time to tell me more about your company now that
I know X, Y and Z and mentioned something specific, I think that really is a perfect fit for me based
on X, Y and Z.
Something else in your background, tie in together, your strengths, your passions.
Bring in something new that came out from this job interview.
Show the person you're really listening to them, but make the case how this is a good fit.
And then the final thing is and you got to be sincere about this show moment of reflection.
You know, now that I think about this, I really think this would be a good fit.
I would like to have this job, and I sincerely hope you consider me for this job.
Ask again, you don't want to seem pushy.
You certainly don't want to seem desperate.
So please give me this job or I'm going to get kicked out of my apartment.
Now, you never want to seem like you need a job, but there's nothing wrong with seeming like you'd
really like this job.
You're not stating I have 50 other job offers.
You're not implying it directly, but there has to be not a single whiff of desperation or intense need.
Instead, it has to be.
You've thought about it.
You like what you hear today.
You're implying this has been a mutual interview.
I'm interviewing you to see if your company is good enough for me.
I've thought about it and I've concluded this is a good fit.
So not only thank you for your time, but thank you for your consideration.
I would in fact like this job, ask for the job.
We've all heard the story of a politician who spent a lot of time with the voter and the voter said
he liked the politician, she liked the politician, but didn't vote for him.
And you say what?
He didn't ask for my vote.
A lot of times in life you don't get if you don't ask.
So my recommendation is ask in a non threatening, non pushy non need to ask for the job, do that.
And then there's no doubt whatsoever in the mind of the interview that if everything else fits, you
would be a good selection for this job.
Good luck with your job interviews and good luck with your career.

--- Why Today is the perfect Day to Start Selling with Online Video ---

Selling through online video, it's a subject that gets a lot of hype and you probably get emails from
people saying, you know, sell through online video and get all this passive income, wake up in your
pajamas in the kitchen, kitchen, kitchen, because of all your money from passive online video.
And I'm here to tell you that works for other people.
Great.
I think that's frankly a bunch of baloney.
That's not how I use video to sell to boil it all down.
It really comes to this.
Think of the best opportunity for you to sell your product or service.
If you're like most people, it's if you can be one on one talking to the person, really explaining
to them how you can help them, how you can help them solve some problem, make more money, improve
their business, improve their life.
That's the best environment for most people to sell.
Right?
Well, that's all I'm trying to do with online video is get as close as possible to that environment.
It's not about slick production values.
And if you want to use slick production values, that's great.
I happen to believe that most people, most businesses most of the time are simply going to lose patience,
lose time budget to do slick production.
And that's why you'll see there's nothing slick about any of these videos.
In fact, you don't even see graphics.
If you want to know who my name is, it's on the course.
It's not about slick productions.
It's simply about talking to customers, prospects, people interested in what you do, talk to them
in a way that doesn't insult their intelligence.
That doesn't say, well, if you don't act now and twenty four hours, this deal is gone forever, then
you go back eight months later and it's still saying the same thing.
It's about treating people with respect, giving them information and answering questions.
That's what online video is about when you used to sell.
Now, I'm not a billionaire.
This course isn't about how you're going to become a billionaire and never have to work again.
It's about how you can use video on a regular basis to sell your products, to sell your services.
And I'm going to walk through you through exactly how to do it and what the biggest stumbling blocks
are.
You know, people think the biggest stumbling block, what's the best camera and how do I build my studio?
Folks, this isn't a studio.
I'm in a closet right now.
It's not about the camera.
At some level, it's about you just deciding you're going to talk to a camera as if you're talking to
one prospect.
If you can get over that emotional hurdle, there's so many ways you can use video to build your business
to make more money.
And again, it's not about getting rich quick, but it is about closing more deals with more prospects,
making people feel more comfortable with you even when you can't have a face to face meeting.
I mean, that's the biggest help to me in my business, is I have probably like you client prospects
from all over the world.
And unless they're right next door in New York City, it's not going to be cost effective for me to
go have a face to face meeting with them.
But through the power of video, you can make people feel as if they know you and what you're about.
And that's what this course is about.
It's really going to show you specifically how you can connect with your prospects, with your existing
clients, with your customers in a way to help you really connect in a more profound way, in a meaningful
way that builds your business.
So that's what it's about.
Let's hop into.

--- Why Talking Head Video Beats Slick Productions ---

So if you're going to use video to sell, you've got to decide what type of video and you could use
a mix.
Here's why I am partial to simple talking head video.
It's easy, it's cheap, it costs nothing.
And you can do it quite often in one take.
In fact, every video you see this cause is me talking in one take with essentially no video editing.
I hit start, I hit stop.
That's it.
It's quick, it's simple.
And that's what creates the versatility to it.
Yes, you can storyboard something and bring in all sorts of original music, bring in special graphics
and spend six months on an opening promo video of your business.
But what happens if five months in you get distracted and you forget about it and it never sees the
light of day?
I recommend for most businesses most of the time to have lots of simple talking head video.
It's the cheapest thing and it's something you can get out right away.
It can be responsive to clients.
It's simply the most versatile.
Yeah, if you want to do a big, fancy, splashy video.
Nothing wrong with that.
Having one there.
But that shouldn't be the only form of video you have.
Now, a lot of you were thinking, well, T.J., I'm not articulate enough or I'm not good looking enough.
Well, if you've ever had a face to face meeting with a client or a prospect and they actually paid
you money, guess what?
You're good looking enough and you're articulate enough to talk on camera.
It's the same thing.
Now, I understand at first it doesn't seem like the same thing.
But if you can have a conversation with one prospect and ever get a sale selling your book, so in your
consulting service, selling your speech, you already have all it takes to be great on video.
Yeah, you may have to practice.
Yeah.
You might not be comfortable with it at first, but once you get over that initial hump, it's going
to be so much easier because if you tell yourself that you have to have little animations and the computer
generated voice, it just you're not going to do that on a regular basis.
Who are we kidding?
If it's all got to be about PowerPoint and slick animation and music, it's just too slow and cumbersome
for most people to do it.
If you do it that way, fine for you.
But all I'm doing here is sharing with you what has actually worked for me and how to do it efficiently.
I recommend you just say, all right, I might not love it at first, but I'm going to do simple talking
head video to look at the camera and just talk to people.
And if it's not great at first, I'll keep doing it until I like it.
And I'm not going to wait until it's perfect before I send it up.
This video isn't perfect.
I could stop and look at every single half second and say I didn't like that one thing I did there,
but would it really be worth it to go edit it out now?
But I really do it that much better if I did three, four or five, ten takes.
No, they might be a little different.
Probably wouldn't be any better.
So the first decision you got to make is what sort of video are you going to do?
I would recommend that you do simple talking head video.
I don't care what you look like.
Believe me, there are people who look at me and comment on my YouTube channel and say, T.J., your
hair's fallen out, your eyes are beady.
You have a double chin.
I don't like your tone of voice.
Tough.
No one is universally loved, not even Oprah.
You can't please everyone.
But again, I'd get back to you have meetings face to face with clients, with prospects.
You don't say to yourself, well, my face isn't good looking enough for a meeting.
I'm going to send somebody.
Now, you probably do it yourself.
If you're an author and you get booked on the Today show, you're going to go you're not going to try
to send someone else, so why not speak yourself on video?
So that's the first big decision you have to make.
Now, in the bonus section of this course, I'm going to give you all the tools, all the exercises
on how to look your best on video camera.
And I'll give you all the exercises you need.
And that's from my media training course.
So you're going to get that at no extra charge in the bonus section.
I urge you to go there.
But for right now, I just want you to focus on the basic idea.
You're going to do a lot of videos just talking.
It's not going to have slick editing.
It's not going to have lots of graphics and special effects.
Biscuit's guess what?
No one's going to hire you, buy your product, hire you for your services, your training, your expertise,
your legal practice.
Because of special effects, because of special effects is what they want.
They can go.
To a Jerry Bruckheimer movie or a Steven Spielberg movie, they don't need you for that, they need
you for some expertise you have that can help them either personally or their business.
And you got to be able to explain that that's what this course is going to teach you how to do.
I'm going to show you now all the different ways the video can help you.

--- Secrets to Looking Your Best on Camera ---

As I mentioned below, in the bonus section, you're going to have the full course on how to look your
best on video, but I do want to give you just the basics right now so you can hop right in.
The biggest problem most people have when they put a video camera on them is all of a sudden they start
freezing and they do this because they're either memorizing something and they're trying to remember.
So their body freezes and see how awful that looks.
Or they think, oh, I know, I'll use a teleprompter.
Hi, my name is TJ Walker at Media Training Worldwide.
We help people communicate, see how awful that is.
People are reading a teleprompter.
It's a difficult thing.
And they tend to speak in the same tone, same volume, same speed.
Body freezes and only lips are moving.
And it just looks awful.
It looks frozen.
So, for example, right now, I'm not using a teleprompter.
I'm also not using notes.
I'm just talking to you.
You may say, oh, gosh, I couldn't do that.
I guess what, you do it every day with clients.
It's not going to be easy the first time you do that or the second time you do it.
But once you do it after a while, it simply becomes second nature.
And that's important to do because then you can do what you do.
Normally when you're having a conversation, your head moves, your face moves, your hands, move,
your bodies, move.
The biggest thing that makes people look awful on TV is nothing's moving but their lips and it just
makes them look scared, nervous, uncomfortable.
So a couple of other little tips.
It's important to lean forward a little bit when you're on camera.
So if I'm sitting back relaxed and I'm a little bit fat these days, but even if you're not fat, you're
going to have a double chin.
Everyone looks their worst heavier sitting back.
You don't want to be perfectly straight.
You look stiff, nervous and uncomfortable.
You have to hold yourself up high and lean forward.
Now, I happened to be standing right now, but if you're in a chair, get you lean forward from the
waist about 15 degrees into the camera.
The other thing that's noticeable your face, your facial expressions, because if you have a blank
look on video doesn't look blank.
You look scared, nervous, uncomfortable, a little bit of a smile on your face even when you're talking
just to look comfortable and relaxed.
Now, when it comes to eyes, they're very noticeable.
So if you forget what you're going to say and you're doing this, it looks really bad on TV and on video.
The other thing is, if you have your notes next to the camera, for example, so you're doing this.
Hi.
I'd like to tell you I'm really the best authority on this subject that I really know my stuff.
I become literally shifty eyed.
So I would recommend just look at the camera as if it's a human being or if you want to have someone
interview you and you can look at that person, that's easier for some people to.
But slow it down, especially if you are a solo practitioner, you can't necessarily demand someone
be with you.
It's always faster to just talk right in to the camera.
Now, people have this mistaken notion that it's not professional to move your hands when you speak.
Nothing could be further from the truth you'll see on sitcoms occasionally the nervous guy going like
this all distracted.
Let me tell you, I've done media training and presentation training for thirty years with ten thousand
clients from over six continents, not over six continents, six continents.
And I can tell you, I've never yet had anyone move their hands too much.
And every week, sometimes every day in a week, I'll have people freeze their hands or put them in
their pockets and they look scared stiff, nervous and uncomfortable.
The other thing people have a problem with is they record themselves.
Once they listen to it, they hate their voice.
We'll get over it.
Everyone else has to listen to your voice.
Every meeting you've ever been to, every new business pitch, your client prospect had to hear your
voice.
So you're going to have to listen to your voice.
It's that simple.
It's highly unlikely you have a bad voice.
It's extremely rare to have a voice so irritating that people run out of the room.
You're just not used to hearing your own voice because you hear your own voice distorted through the
bones in your skull.
So when you're hearing it come through a speaker, it's much less distorted than you normally hear it,
get over it.
Everyone else has to listen to your voice.
So the basic the fundamental thing you've got to do to get comfortable speaking on camera is you just
have to do it a bunch of times.
And if you want to practice and not show anyone, that's OK.
But you can't just do it once.
Look at and say, oh, I'm clearly not an on camera person.
That's a silly, outdated notion.
Sure.
There was a time, maybe an.
Nineteen sixty two, when all the networks said you must look and sound like Walter Cronkite and how
those days are gone, I mean, does Oprah look like Rachael Ray?
Does Tom Brokaw necessarily look like people you see on podcasts with wildly successful viewership?
Does everyone have a deep voice?
I mean, Adam Carolla has a nasal twang.
I mean, there's all kinds of people out there who look different, sound different, different accents,
fat than skinny tosh.
It doesn't matter as long as you have good ideas that you're sharing with people and they could understand.
That's the fundamental thing.
So these are basics you need to think of when trying to look your best on camera.
The main thing is don't be flat and get scared and tighten up your voice and go like this.
That's the biggest problem most people have, is they become flat, monotone, low energy.
So you're going to have to overdo it.
A little project a little louder, a little more energy than normal.
And you do that and you'll come across fine on camera.

--- Video Proposals ---

Proposals are another great category for using digital video, any time somebody writes to me and asks
for a proposal, I don't simply send text, I don't send a PDA.
Now, I do send a text.
But I don't just send that.
I give them a personal video proposal.
So, for example, if somebody from Citibank in Chicago just sends a very brief email, a dear Web site,
and they even personalize it to me, we're looking for a quote for media training for six executives
in Chicago includes print radio broadcast.
Please send your direct.
I often get an email like that.
You get the sense they don't even want to talk to me.
They're just having a junior assistant send out emails to 15, 20 people and they want to get proposals
and so they can sort of look at pricing.
Well, I don't want to just get lost in the shuffle of 10 pages or 15 pages that have been printed out
in a bunch of text.
So I give a proposal.
So I will turn on the camera just like I'm talking to you now and say hi, Mary.
I'll look at the camera.
Hi, Mary.
Thanks for writing to me.
I would certainly love to work with you and your colleagues at Citibank.
I understand that you have six executives.
They need to be prepared for going on CNBC, talking to The Wall Street Journal, perhaps business radio.
That's exactly what I do.
And then I spend about five minutes walking them through what I do.
I have worked with others in their industry.
What I think their particular concerns might be, how I would go through a day of training, the pre
training, the books I would give them, the online training, I would give them all the follow up.
I would go through my unique sales proposition and what's special about me.
And if they don't want to watch it, they don't have to.
They can still just read the text that I send in a standard proposal.
But I take the viewpoint that if someone's hiring me to teach them how to speak to the media or how
to give speeches, they should see me speak first.
And here's what people who hire me often tell me.
They say, wow, that was really smart.
We felt like we knew you and nobody else did it.
Now, 20 years from now, maybe everyone's going to do a video.
So it's going to be like a website today.
If those of you old enough to remember nineteen ninety five, nineteen ninety six, you had a website
that was cause for a news story.
It was sort of amazing that you and your organization would have a website.
Nowadays it's a story.
If you don't have a website these days, it's still early enough that if you send a video proposal,
it's sort of interesting, it stands out.
No one else is doing it.
It captures their attention.
This way.
They can see who I am.
They can see that I am articulate, that I can practice what I preach.
Is it as good as a face to face meeting?
No, but if someone just sending me an email, not even addressing me by name, I'm looking for a proposal
and they're in another state or another country, as is often the case, there's no way in the world
I'm going to be able to send them an email and sort of demand a face to face meeting.
The video is a great way of almost making things feel like we had a meeting.
They can see me.
They can see me really explain the process in a way that's much richer than just putting it down in
text.
I've done this for a couple of years now and I have consistently had a very positive response from prospects
who went from Prospect to becoming a client.
So I recommend not just for special cases, not just for really big deals, but every single prospect
who calls you, emails you, communicates with you in any way.
Send them a video proposal.
It can be done in two minutes, unedited.
You push record, you stop record and you're done.
It's easier, frankly, than writing a new cover letter for your proposal.
So send out a video proposal.

--- Video Client Communication ---

Another way I use online video is through client communication.
Now I'm in the media training, public speaking, training business.
So a part of my package with clients is I not only train you for the day, but if you send me a video
of any speech or media interview you do in the next year, I'll give you a personalized video critique.
And it's not simply me typing up something and sending you an email, it's me doing it in a video.
So if you're giving a speech and you're constantly fiddling with your finger, I won't just tell you
about I'll demonstrate what you're doing.
Much more powerful impact.
Now, I understand chances are slim that you are a public speaking coach because there aren't that many
of us out there.
But whatever your business is, it's simply more powerful to communicate through video where people
can see you.
So rather than just doing a text newsletter, you may want to send a newsletter to clients or you giving
them special updates in a video format, or if you've done a report or a particular analysis research
for a client and they're in another city or another country and there's no budget for you to go and
personally deliver it.
Why not give them as an attachment, the PDF, the report, but then a video of you really explaining
it in detail as if you had been flown to spend a day with your colleague and giving them or your client
and giving them an hour presentation, maybe don't make it for an hour, but certainly go over the highlights
and give them a sense that you're on top of that, because if you're a larger organization, there's
often the concern that your client might have that just some twenty two year old wrote this report and
you never even saw it.
So when you as the account executive, as the representative, as the head of the company, are really
speaking directly to the client, mentioning their name, mentioning the particulars in that report,
for them, it just gives them a much better sense that you are thinking about them, caring for them,
focusing on them.
Now, how does that relate to selling more and generating more revenue?
Well, I'm sure you've heard this before, but the best source of new business is repeat business.
The best source of revenue for any company is keeping the clients you actually have.
So if communicating on video helps you keep a client two years rather than one year, well, that's
worth a fortune right there.
If it helps you keep them five years instead of five months, that's worth a whole lot more money than
selling some get rich quick PDF.
Buy this now for seventeen dollars and ninety five cents and hoping to get a thousand of those sold
every day.
So that's what this video course is about, really is helping you cement relationships not just with
prospects, not just with your industry, but with clients, because that's the best way of selling
getting repeat business.
I might not sell 50 new clients every day or even one new client every day.
But I do have clients who've worked with me for more than seven years, some more than 10 years and
some more than a quarter of a century, believe it or not, are still working with me.
And I do believe it's because in part, I stay in touch with them through videos, sometimes personalized
video.
Any communication you send to a client in a text format, certainly if it's important, you could do
in a video format as well.
Once you get the hang of it, start record hit, stop said you don't have to do slick productions.
I know I keep repeating myself, but people don't get this.
They think video is a lot more complicated than it is.
And you could simply hold up a cell phone and give a quick report to a client.
It might look down and dirty.
That's OK.
It shows immediacy sometimes.
So this is another option.
Regular communication through video with your client.

--- Video News Analysis ---

Creating videos that relate to something going on in the news is another great way of selling your business.
I don't mean a quick, hard sell, quick cash, buy this product now.
I mean selling your expertise, your brand, your reputation.
So, for example, I am a speaking expert.
People hire me to teach them how to give speeches, to speak to the news media and to speak during a
crisis.
So any time something that relates to those issues is in the news, I will do a video analyzing it and
putting it on my YouTube channel and put on my blog and other places.
But YouTube is the greatest way to reach a larger audience quickly, easily, cheaply.
So, for example, a few months ago, Michael Bay, the director, was at a conference and about to
give a speech.
He was out on stage and he just he froze one of those massive cases of stage fright anyone had ever
seen.
And he walked off stage.
Well, I had a lot of people sending this to me, T.J., to just see this.
What did you think?
So I did a quick video analyzing exactly what he did, but also giving tips to people on how to avoid
stage fright, how if you are nervous and scared, very specific things you can do.
So it wasn't me just making fun of someone or piling on or bashing on, but it was referencing something
in the news.
I provided a link to the story so people could see the video of this director freezing and being scared
and walking offstage.
But then I provided analysis that showed my own expertise.
Everyone has some expertise that relates to their industry.
It might not be relating to a story that's on network news.
If you are a jeweler, you may be commenting on some new style of cut.
That's the trend these days.
Or you may want to be commenting on the increased quality and competition of commercial grade diamonds.
The rest of the world might not care, but people in your industry will really care.
So, again, you don't have to do things like 60 Minutes and have role and graphics and go to stakeouts.
You can simply summarize the issue in the news and then give your analysis as if a client had just picked
up the phone and called you and said, hey, T.J., what do you think about X, Y and Z on the news
today?
Oh, whatever you would say in reaction to a client asking your opinion, you can do a simple video
on that and put that on your YouTube channel, put it on your blog, put it on your Facebook, distribute
it through all sorts of social media.
But it's yet another way for people to see that you're a real human being, that you have real expertise.
You're not just an anonymous, bland corporate structure that's run by robots.
You're a real person.
Now, this is also the way you can, frankly, get in front of a lot more people, because if you're
talking about something in the news and you can legitimately put some aspect of that in the title of
your YouTube channel, that or your YouTube video, there's a much better chance that people will find
it.
So, for example, I have between one thousand and two thousand people every single day watching my
YouTube channel.
Now, do most of them by for me now, but that's OK.
Some of them eventually do become clients.
And it's not because I and every single video and I'm DJ Walker, I have the greatest media train in
the world.
You have to hire me.
And here's my phone number and click.
No, I'm not doing any of that.
Now there is a link and the description below on my website and my phone numbers.
If they want to find me, they can find me.
But I make the videos as brief as possible.
Sometimes they're 40 seconds long.
Sometimes they might be five minutes long if it takes that long to really explain my analysis of it.
But it's a great way of communicating anything.
You would put in a newsletter.
You can do a simple talking head video.
And if you're like me, have you been doing this for a while?
It's actually faster than writing a newsletter.
You write a newsletter or a column or a blog post.
You've got to write it, rewrite it, edit it, spell check it, proof it again, change punctuation.
If you're just talking, it's done.
As long as you don't really, really screw up, just hit stop, finish the tape and send it out.
If you have an occasional are repeat yourself.
That's OK.
That's what host on the Today Show to you.
Certainly seeing Matt Katie when she was on their AK.
They say that's OK, it's not about being perfect, it's about have you conveyed the idea and interesting,
useful way.
So keep this in mind.
If you're not doing it already, you should do it because it's a great way of getting in front of prospects,
of staying in front of your clients.
So they continue to associate you with real expertise.
Let's face it, there's more and more competition everywhere in the world these days.
People in other countries who have much lower cost of living, lower standard of living are probably
willing to do what you do for 10 percent of the cost.
So you don't want to be competing on price.
You do want to be competing on expertise.
That's the beauty of YouTube videos and putting out videos and social media so you can really demonstrate
your expertise to people.
And that can often make the difference of them justifying paying you if your higher priced than somebody
willing to work much less expensively in another country.

--- Video Training ---

Another great way of selling through a video is by putting your expertise on a video in the form of
a training.
Now, these days there are lots and lots of high quality online training places, websites like the
one you're watching right now that provide a way for you to connect with students all over the globe.
Now, you may charge five dollars for your course.
You may charge a thousand dollars for your course.
I have a lot of different courses, more than a dozen courses on different platforms.
And it's not that every single day I'm making millions of dollars from my online courses, but there's
so many different ways you can benefit by having an online course.
For starters, simply cataloging all your information will make you better at whatever it is you do.
Forcing you to speak out will make you more articulate.
Having an online course and telling other people will at some level make you seem like more of an expert,
especially if it's a good course and it needs to be a good course.
The other thing, let's say, for example, someone calls me today and says, T.J., we need a keynote
speaker and we're interested in the topic of how to sell more using online video.
I'm not going to just send them a tax proposal.
I'm not going to just give them references of other people who say I'm a great speaker.
I'm going to send them a free pass to this course so they can see in detail all the different things
I talk about.
It will eliminate risk for them.
They'll know what they're getting if someone is calling me.
And once a proposal and media training, will I send them a free pass to my online media training course?
And I can say, look, here it is this the same thing I'm going to do with your people, but be personalized.
And you can see here's a hundred different modules.
Here's more than three hours of content.
I am an expert on this.
I am the real deal and that helps me sell.
So I might not make any revenues that day or even that week from my online media training school.
But if it helps me close another one or two trainings, people hiring me in the real world to go to
them and and spend their money on me for a day, well, that can be quite substantial revenue.
That happens to be my main revenue driver, people hiring me for a day and paying a relatively large
amount for that one day of time.
So the online training is a great way to help boost your reputation in many, many ways.
The other thing that it does, and this may be just specific to someone in the training business, but
for example, when someone hires me for a day of media training, I send them my online media training
course and tell them that's your homework.
So it makes my life a lot easier on the day of training.
I'm not repeating myself, but it really helps the client, too, because now they get more time on
camera to practice.
So everyone benefits, makes my life easier, helps the client dramatically.
They get more practice time on camera.
Your business might be a little different, but still there may be something you do where you find yourself
repeating yourself again and again.
Again, you could be a consultant trying to help someone be more efficient.
And you're repeating the same time again and again about a certain prospect.
You might just create an online course that goes through all of that.
Ask your client if they want to go through it.
If they do great, they'll appreciate it.
If not, they still think higher of you, that you're the expert who's actually taught the course on
it.
So many, many reasons to create online courses.
It's not just about passive income, which I'm sorry, I get a little upset when people go on and on
and on about passive income.
In my opinion, no such thing as passive income unless you have a great stock portfolio or a fantastic
mutual fund manager.
The rest of this is about work, but you can work in a way that is more productive and generates more
money for you.
And that's what I think online video can do in this case, very, very specifically by creating more
courses that really catalog your expertise.

--- Video Skype Calls ---

Another great way of selling through online video is Skype.
Believe it or not, or Google live chats.
Now, it might not be what you're thinking.
People still have this idea.
You've got to have this slick 30 second video, boom, boom, boom.
And by here, you lose out forever.
Video is anytime someone can see you, see your body, hear you, and you're not in the same room.
So, for example, any prospect who contacts me, I will say to them, in addition to sending them a
proposal video, I'll say, can we talk about your specific needs in a Skype video chat?
And then I call them up through Skype.
But it's not just the audio part, it's the video.
And it looks exactly like this.
I do it from this room again.
I'm in a small closet.
There's more information about the technical stuff in the bonus area of this course.
But I am in a six foot by nine foot closet.
This is a computer and I do have a nice camera.
But you could use just a webcam and I'll have a different mic that I use for the Skype.
But it's a great way for you to really be responsive and for people to feel almost like you're in a
face to face meeting.
And depending on what you're selling, you're selling something that's more than, say, nine hundred
and ninety seven dollars.
It can be hard to get people to feel comfortable enough to give you money to send you that cheque to
wire that money to give you their credit card if they haven't personally met you.
But if you're selling your services to people in different cities, you know, if it's a, let's say,
a seven thousand dollar service, it's going to be hard to justify flying all the way across the country,
hotel expenses, airplane, cab, limo, all that just for seven thousand dollars.
And the chance you might not get it.
But for a Skype conference, your cost is nothing, essentially once you have your basic infrastructure.
Now, if you're going to communicate with people on Skype, you need to look your best and sound your
best.
The problem many people have is they're working off a laptop and the camera's too low and it's shooting
up their nose.
Their window is behind them.
So it's bright light there, their faces blackened out and they have horrible audio quality.
Well, the problem is not Skype or that Skype makes people look bad.
The problem is what you're doing.
It's very easy to have high quality Skype conversations with people.
And here's some simple tips.
Take your computer, your laptop, put on a stack of books so that the camera is at your eye level.
Close your blinds if there's a window behind you and make sure you have more light in front of you.
And next, go to RadioShack.
I mean, this is a little more expensive, but buy a microphone for 15 bucks and plug it into your laptop.
It will sound a thousand times better.
Do that and you'll come across as professional and people get a much better sense of who you are.
Now, you can also do these live chats through Google Hangouts.
That can be a great what you can do live webinars, essentially.
That's something else I do with video, sometimes in cooperation with major trade associations like
the Public Relations Society of America or Bulldog.
I'll do live video events and there can be different platforms.
The main thing is just that you've made a commitment to talk to people on video and helping the beauty
of life is it can be interactive and they can ask you questions.
Finally, something else I'm doing that is still very much in the early stages.
Most people are not doing it.
But you can give a keynote speech to a thousand people through Skype video.
I've done that right here in this room.
And I've talked to, for example, six hundred people at a convention in New Zealand.
I'm in the New York City area.
They didn't have budget or time to fly me all the way to New Zealand and back, but to simply turn on
my camera, turn on lights and communicate through Skype.
They projected it on a big screen, connected their computer with speakers.
So everyone in the audience could hear me.
After the presentation, I took questions.
They spoke into the microphone and I could see that they could see me.
It was a fantastic experience and it was a keynote speech.
I got paid for it, too.
So that's yet another way you can sell through online video.
But it's not what people typically talk about when they're talking about selling an online video.
But keep it in mind, communicating through customers, clients and even speaking audiences through
Skype and other online technology is now simple.
It's easy, it's cheap.
It can be done.
You just have to make the decision you're going to do it.

--- Video Media Pitches ---

Another great way of selling through online video is by creating media pictures with video and only
explaining what I'm talking about.
Let's say you've heard a particular media outlet is looking for an expert in your particular area to
talk about something in the news.
Now, what most people do is they send a video from a TV appearance last time they send press clips,
they send references.
So it's always a great guest.
Now, you may still want to do that, but nothing I mean, nothing beats sending a brand new video to
the producer of the show today, telling them exactly what you think about the issue in the news today
and being able to do it in 60 seconds, maybe 90 seconds, where you have great soundbites.
You're summing up the news topic, you send it to them, then they could say, wow, this person is
perfect because they're giving me exactly what I want.
Now the producer realizes there's no risk.
They don't have to worry.
If you're articulate enough, if they're sending the limo to bring you to CNBC or FOX or MSNBC, not
to worry about being embarrassed to their bosses because they've already seen you produce.
I've done this many, many times now.
You might not want to be on TV.
That's OK.
But ask yourself if the most respected local broadcast outlet in your town wanted you on to talk about
your business, your expertise, why in the world would you turn that down?
Now, people often think, well, you can't get on unless you have a big, high priced, expensive PR
firm.
PR firms can do a great job and I definitely use them.
But you don't have to you can pitch yourself.
So here's an interesting scenario that I've done many times myself.
But let's say there's something breaking in the news.
It's 10 a.m. and the Supreme Court makes a ruling on an antitrust case that is of interest to people.
Let's say it involves Microsoft or Intel, a really huge company.
And you're an antitrust lawyer and you have nothing to do with this particular case.
There's nothing wrong with you doing a simple video, just like I am right now, where you summarize
the case in 30 seconds and then give your analysis of the significance of this and why.
And maybe the whole video is 90 seconds long.
You then post that video on your website, on YouTube, on your blog, your social media.
But most important, you send it to the producers of local TV shows who you think would be of interest
to this, or you pitch it to CNN or Fox or MSNBC or Tru TV.
You send it to the media outlets who you think are going to be covering this and you will have instant
credibility because they're not going to wonder whether you're articulate.
They're not going to wonder if it takes you five minutes to say one point.
They can see it in video.
There's been many and I should say I've been a talk show host, TV radio.
I've had thousands of talk show appearances actually enter the Guinness Book of Records for most talk
show appearances ever in a twenty four hour period promoting one of my speaking books.
So you don't have to go that far.
But I can tell you this technique really does work because there's still a lot of producers, bookers
who don't know who I am.
But if I hear of a big news story, I know it's going to get coverage.
I'll do a quick analysis summary, send the video.
And it's often made the difference of me getting on.
It's got me on CBS Good Morning show on the Sunday version of their Saturday version and other really
high quality shows of huge audiences, plus all the cable networks, too.
So if you're at all interested in publicity, doing a video of your analysis as if you are being interviewed
by that TV outlet is a great way of doing it.
Now, is the TV network going to pay, you know, at least not the first dozen or even a hundred times?
Yeah, if they love you so often and you're such a regular, you can always strike a deal as a paid
contributor.
But the payment comes because now you're seen as more credible in the marketplace.
When your clients see you on national TV or in local TV, it makes them feel better about you.
It reminds them, oh yeah, they have that expertise.
We have this problem in the Cleveland office, maybe a good fit.
It builds your reputation.
It also makes you more respectable to prospects.
They've never heard of you.
They stumble across your website.
If they can then go on to your press room and see you on TV, quoted in other media outlets on a regular
basis.
It makes them feel a lot more comfortable about calling you and hiring you.
And that does affect your bottom line.

--- How to Sell with Online Video - Conclusion ---

So I've just outlined for you more than half a dozen ways that I personally use online video to sell,
to build my business, sometimes directly, sometimes indirectly, to build my reputation, but ultimately
all affects my business.
It helps my business, and it does generate revenue.
I've given you lots and lots of tips below in the bonus section is even more the technical aspects,
although the technical aspects are frankly the easiest thing to deal with and the least of your worries,
the number one thing you have to do to really start making more money, building your business and selling
more with online video isn't technical.
It's emotional.
I'm sorry to sound touchy feely and all new agey on you, but it really is.
I've seen this with thousands of clients and prospects all over the world for years.
People talk about video, they buy studios, they buy five different cameras, and eight months later,
they've never posted their first video.
You've got and I hate to sound like a Nike commercial, but you've got to just do it.
Just start making video, everything you do or your typing, start doing it in video type of proposal.
Do a video type of press release, do a video on it, typing up new copy for your website, do a video
on it.
Might not be perfect, but you know what?
Something beats nothing.
This idea that you're not going to post a video because it's not perfect.
Well, how often do you write a perfect press release or a perfect amama or a perfect email?
Chances are it's not perfect.
You do the best you can and you put it out.
You need to take the same attitude with video because here's the beauty of video.
Your competitors aren't doing it because they're insecure or they're lazy.
So it's such an easy, easy, easy thing to do now where you get a lot of credit from clients, prospects,
your industry in the world, because there's comparatively little competition.
You want to get a sense of the difference.
I was speaking to a bunch of life insurance executives in New Zealand not that long ago.
So I mentioned to you through Skype and I asked them in Skype, New Zealand life insurance excuse me,
Google New Zealand Life Insurance.
What do you find?
Fifty thousand websites come up.
So now go to YouTube.
Type in New Zealand, life insurance.
Eight videos showed up.
Where do you want to be competing against the fifty thousand or against the eight now get.
It's not about YouTube and making riches off of YouTube.
It is about getting in front of people and having them listen to you, watch you connect with you,
ultimately call you and hire you.
And that's why I'm so excited about selling the online video.
It's still, even though billions of minutes are uploaded to YouTube every day, it's still new.
It's still different.
It's still innovative.
It's still a great way for you to distinguish yourself within your industry and from your competitors.
So please start creating video today, send it out to customers posted on your website, posted on YouTube
and just start.

--- An Acceptance Speech Can Be Brief and Memorable and Powerful ---

So you've been nominated for an award, it might be an Academy Award, the whole world could be watching
or it might be for best coach in your whole little league.
Regardless, it's still important to you.
These are your friends, your family, people you respect, perhaps people in your industry, in the
audience.
And it's still an opportunity to speak to people.
So why not make the best of it?
There's nothing worse than someone winning a major award, whether it is an Emmy Award, Academy Award
or just local Kiwanis Club Member of the Year award.
Sort of getting up, fumbling around.
Oh, good.
I never thought I would win, so I didn't prepare anything.
Prepare.
Do the people who took the trouble of nominating you for this award a little respect?
Do them justice prepared.
If you don't lose, nothing's hurt by you preparing.
It doesn't really take that long.
So remember, it is an opportunity to put a spotlight on ideas you care about, to thank the people
who helped you win this award.
So don't blow it.
Don't wait to the last minute.
Don't make excuses.
Don't be afraid of jinxing yourself.
Prepare to win the award.
Prepare to give the speech.
And if you don't win, well, maybe we'll use the acceptance speech next year or next time.
So that's what going to do now.
Want to give you practical tips on how you can prepare for your acceptance speech.

--- Accomplish the Exact Goals You Target for the Speech ---

Let's start off by focusing on our goals for this speech, because, after all, an acceptance speech
is still a speech.
Now, it might be a short one.
It might only be 60 seconds long before that music comes in and you're asked to get off stage.
But it's still a speech now.
It is different from a lot of speeches.
You're not going to have a PowerPoint display.
You're not going to have a beginning, middle and end and stories and walking around the stage and talking
for 50 minutes like a keynote speech.
But it's still a speech.
It's still an opportunity to make a great impression, awful an impression or an impression.
So let's start off with our goal.
Our goal should be to a make a great impression be thank the people who are relevant to helping us in
our career, whatever it is we did and see, trying to put a focus on really probably just one idea
that you want to leave people with, whether it is inspiring people to follow their dreams, whether
it is motivating people to work harder through whatever it is.
This is not an opportunity to communicate five points or 10 points, but it is an opportunity to focus
on one of life's lessons or one really important idea.
So that's what I want you to think of.
Think of the goal before we start this presentation, make people have a favorable impression of you,
that you're poised, that you're a good communicator, that you're respectful of people, that you've
thought about this and planned it, that you've got a particular idea you want to communicate and that
you thank the people who helped you get to the point where you're winning this award.
So those are the goals.
Let's focus.
You may want to write them down, but let's focus on the goals.
Our goals are not to just get through this.
Our goal is not to thank our tax attorney and twenty nine other service providers.
So they give us a five percent discount next year.
Focus on what your goals are before you even start preparing for this presentation.

--- Thank People in a Meaningful Way ---

The first thing most people do when they win an award is they thank the people who help them.
And of course, you should thank people, but there is a particular way of thanking people.
What you should do if the people are there in the room, look at the people, address them by name and
say, Jim, you were there for me when no one else was, when I couldn't raise a penny to get this movie
made.
You wrote the first check.
Thank them and tell them what you're thanking them for.
It's going to be so much more interesting to everyone, some more meaningful and it's going to come
across as sincere.
That's much more effective than just rattling off a long list of names.
So thank people in as specific way as possible tell people exactly what they did.
Don't just say support.
Support is generic.
It's abstract.
Doesn't really mean anything.
Tell people exactly what you're thanking them for.
Look them in the eye.
If they're around, give specific examples.
And this way, your thanks will have real meaning.

--- You are Fun - Be Entertaining ---

When you're giving an acceptance speech, especially if it's anything to do with something in the arts,
an Oscar, the Academy Awards, the Emmys, the Tonys, anything in the creative fields, keep in mind
you're an entertainer.
So something in your acceptance speech should be entertaining.
Now, ideally, it's funny, but if it's not funny, at least a dramatic moment, something with a little
emotion.
It's always disappointing when people who are known as world class entertainers and they get up to give
an acceptance speech and they seem about as entertaining as if an accountant were reading the phone
book to you or the latest IRS regulation change.
Remember who you are, whatever your strengths are, use those display those strengths.
So if you are anything in the entertainment field, use this to entertain.
Now, you're not going to give a humorous speech, a big Garrison Keillor for an hour, but you do have
a minute where you can say at least something amusing, interesting, entertaining.
So plan on having something entertaining even if you're just making fun of yourself.
Remember, for a lot of people who get acceptance speeches, more people are watching the acceptance
speech that will ever see your movie or your video or your Broadway show.
So people often have it backwards.
They think I'm going to rehearse hour after hour after hour, four months from my Broadway show, which
two hundred people see a night.
And now I'm going to be on the Tonys on CBS.
Millions of people are going to see it.
And I'm just going to wait now, give it the time and effort and energy to create an entertaining moment.
So something in your acceptance speech needs to be entertaining.

--- Learn these Secrets from the Masters ---

Let's face it, most acceptance speeches are there.
They're not interesting, they're not memorable, they're instantly forgotten.
They're perfunctory.
That shouldn't be your role model.
Your role model should be the great speeches.
Here's what I want you to do.
Here's your first homework assignment.
I want you to go to YouTube and just type in great acceptance speeches or great Academy Award acceptance
speeches.
There's a lot of different ways you can search, but you will find tremendous speeches.
Most of them are brief because they are acceptance speeches on TV.
They're usually always funny.
They have an emotional moment and they don't seem perfunctory.
The things seem genuine.
So take a look.
Right now, you can see everyone from Michael Douglas to Robin Williams and Adam Sandler, they've all
had great acceptance speeches from time to time.
Now, you might be winning a speech for the best accountant in your county.
You might not feel the need or the ability to be wildly funny, but you can still learn from the Masters.
So please go to YouTube, type in great acceptance speeches and just get a sampling.

--- Just the Right Amount of Emotion ---

Hey,
look, folks, a little emotion goes a long way now, certainly if you've had a tough, tough life,
been poor your whole life, and now you win the Academy Award and it's your first movie or after a 50
year career.
Sure, it's understandable to have some emotion, but you need the right amount of it if you're just
out there blubbering.
It's not very interesting to people.
It's a moment, but you're not really conveying anything, so keep it together.
This is one of the beauties of having rehearsed your acceptance speeches.
You can show the right amount of emotion and you can be emotional and the words can still come out because
you've thought of it, you planned it, you practiced, you've rehearsed it.
But if you just take the attitude of, well, I don't want to jinx myself, I'm not going to have anything
to say to get up there, then the emotion of the moment may overwhelm you and you just can't say anything.
And you kind of look like an idiot, especially if it's on TV.
The whole world sees it.
So you want emotion, but not so much that you're just blubbering and you can't get through your acceptance
speech.
So keep that in mind.
Let's have emotion, but not too much.

--- Tell a Story ---

The best acceptance speeches always tell a story.
Now you may say, well, how is our time for a story?
You can be pretty if you can tell a story in 30 seconds.
But talk about something that happened.
Recount a real conversation with a friend, a colleague, someone family member about a challenge,
how you overcame it and how it's relevant to what it is you're here for.
If you are an actor like Philip Seymour Hoffman told this compelling story, how is just him and his
mom when he was a teenager waiting up at night watching the Academy Awards, dreaming it was so emotional,
so compelling, but you could be winning the accountant of the year for your state and talk about particular
challenges that you faced April 15th or April 14th last year and the team that you worked with and how
you overcame it.
So talk about a story, make it brief, make sure it's relevant to a message you have for this audience
and tell it in a compelling way.
So have a story for your acceptance speech that we're going to practice in just a few minutes.

--- Don't Read a Speech ---

I never believe in starting off with the negative, so I've waited a while before giving you the tips
on what not to do, but there are a few things that you really, really need to go out of your way to
avoid when giving an acceptance speech.
And one of them is reading.
I'd like to thank my accountant, my tax attorney, my hairstylist, my hair colors.
But that's the worst reading because it has all the spontaneity of, you know, a state legislative
meeting where there's just a secretary reading the minutes of a meeting.
It's just awful.
It's devoid of personality, emotion and sincerity.
So don't read.
I'll tell you in a minute what it's OK to have some notes, but you certainly should not have word for
word scripted out.
And I really don't think you should think more than that.
As many people as would fit on fingers of your hand or fewer if you have more people than that to thank.
Send them a personal note.
Create your own video that you post on your YouTube channel, or if you're winning an Academy Award,
they have what's called a thank you camp behind stage where you can thank his people as long as you
want as many people as you want.
And now your agent can have something for their lobby to show their other clients.
But don't give a long, long, long laundry list of names and don't read.
I mean, those are the two biggest blunders that people make in the major award shows when they are
receiving awards.
So don't do it and don't tell you.
Well, T.J., I'll be nervous.
I don't want to miss anything.
I better have the whole script where I can right now.
Don't do it.
In a moment, I'll show you how to use notes properly.
But you got to get in your head.
You can't read a whole acceptance speech.
You need to be looking up at people, thanking people, thanking the stars or whatever else you want
to think.
But don't be read.

--- More Common Blunders ---

I told you, the biggest blunder, of course, is reading, there are a few other basic pitfalls to
avoid that often get people into trouble.
So for starters, don't tell people you're nervous.
No one cares, especially if you're some big Hollywood star, movie star, TV star.
You're used to performing in the public all the time.
You want millions of people to see you, so don't waste time telling you, oh, I'm nervous.
It's just not interesting.
Now, you can tell your family and friends later that you are nervous, but don't waste valuable time.
Speaking of time, don't waste time telling people that you don't have much time.
Oh, my gosh, I don't have much time.
I don't know where to start because I don't have that much time.
And I want to thank people but haven't much time.
Don't ever comment on the time.
Simply use your time to maximum advantage.
Use every second saying something interesting to the audience or thinking people don't waste time talking
about the fact that you don't have much time because now you'll have even less time.
So don't talk about that.
Don't talk about your speech.
When I was trying to figure out what I would say in my speech, I grapple with don't talk about your
speech, just speak.
It kind of sounds pompous and like you're very full of yourself.
Well, while I was sitting down in my library thinking about what to say in my speech, just get to
the point.
Say something interesting.
Don't talk about your speech, just speak.
So if you could avoid those pitfalls, then that gives you more time to focus on saying something interesting,
perhaps something lighthearted, thanking people in a sincere way.
So avoid those blunders.

--- Acceptance Speech Conclusions ---

Thanks for joining me for this course on how to give a great acceptance speech if I get vote for you,
I would I'm pulling for you.
I hope you win this award so you can show off your public speaking skills and give a great acceptance
speech.
It really all comes down to be genuine in your thanks.
Don't just list names.
Have one interesting or entertaining thing to share.
One little story, focus on your audience and helping people, not about how you're nervous or scared.
And finally, the most important tip of all, practice your acceptance speech in advance on video as
many times as it takes so that you see in advance the speech you want to give.
And then once you win, you can simply deliver the speech that you've already practiced.
Do that and you will be an absolute great shape.
Good luck.

--- How to Deliver a Eulogy Public Speaking ---

So how do you deliver an effective eulogy?
Big tip, I would not read a eulogy at all.
This is a presentation that's not about the most number of facts or bullet points.
This is about emotion.
And if you get upset or you cry a little, that's OK.
If ever there's a time to be emotional, it's at a funeral.
And when you're delivering a eulogy, however, you don't want to just get up there in blubber.
You do want to be able to keep it together and to get through the points.
Here's what I would recommend doing.
Don't try to cover the person's entire life and go through every single accomplishment and where they
went to college.
At this stage, that's not what people care about.
What you can do is help put a spotlight on a few of the traits and a few of the moments that really
were special for this person and others in the audience.
Try to tell stories about personal acts of kindness or whatever it is that really display the fundamental
essence of what this person was about.
Talk about your conversations with this person, perhaps problems that were overcome, be personal.
And again, try to put a spotlight on the good this person did.
You're not the official biographer.
It's not your job to give point counterpoint in all sides.
It's your job to put a spotlight on what was great about this person's life and what will be missed.

--- You Will Lead the Celebration of This Person's Life ---

Someone significant in your life has passed and it is now time to deliver a eulogy.
The responsibility is on your shoulders and here's what it is.
It's an opportunity for you to put a spotlight on the good things this person did, the good things
about this person, how this person touched your life.
Others in the room as well.
It is a great way to honor the person who has passed.
Of course, it's a sad time.
Doesn't mean there can't be some lightness brought into it, even humor when done in an appropriate
way.
But this is a great opportunity.
I don't mean this in a sense that this is an honor for you or a chance for you to look good.
I just mean it's a great opportunity for you to put a spotlight on what was special about this person
to walk you through the steps you need in order to have a eulogy where you do not have to worry about
it.
You're not going to have to sweat.
You're not going to have to worry about whether you're fall apart.
You'll have a system in place for getting through this day and doing the best you can, really honoring
this person who's passed.

--- Put Your Finger on that Person's Magic ---

Here's the first thing I want you to do in preparing the eulogy for a lost loved one.
I want you to just isolate one sentence or less.
What is the one thing that was best about this person?
Was it their compassion?
Was it their humor, their selflessness, their intelligence?
Everybody has some strength.
And rather than try to cover every single thing this person ever did that was wonderful or say that
they were great at everything.
I want you to really isolate the one quality that made this person special to you and to a lot of other
people in the room.
Let's focus on that.
That's your first piece of homework.

--- What Was He/She Proudest Of? ---

After you've identified that one key thing that's so special about that person, I want you to come
up with just a few more.
I mean, two or three accomplishments and traits of this person that really stand out that somehow mark
this person is different, special, unique, and not a whole laundry list.
This is not the time to write their unauthorized or authorized biography.
It is a time to put a spotlight on the special moments of this person's life, especially as it affect
others in the room.
So write down now for me just two or three specific accomplishments and traits that this person had
that would be widely known and people in the room could relate to it.

--- Becoming a Master Storyteller ---

You've got a skeleton for this eulogy now, you've got the number one positive thing about this person,
you have a few other accomplishments and traits you want to focus on.
But now we have to put some meat on the bones and the real meat of any eulogy.
And in fact, all good presentations are the stories.
And the story is simply you recounting a real conversation with this person, what the situation was,
how you felt, the circumstances and what happened.
That's all the story is.
So, for example, when I deliver the eulogy of my mother, she had passed away at age seventy five.
I wanted to put a spotlight on just what an overwhelmingly positive, upbeat person she was and how
positive she was to everyone around her and especially to me, and how that influenced me.
And I recounted my earliest memories of her just holding me on her lap, saying, you know, little
Timmy, you're just the smartest boy in the whole world.
And I would say, what about the universe?
She would say, you're the smartest little boy in the whole universe.
And I would say, what about we would go around and read?
But she was so unrelentingly positive she boosted me.
She may be too much, but she boosted my self-esteem.
She gave me the confidence that by the time I ever went to kindergarten or first grade, I felt like
I was ready to take over the world.
And she was just a positive, positive, happy, smiling person who always found something good to say
about me.
Even, you know, it turned out I wasn't the smartest boy, the entire universe, but according to her,
I still was even up to the end.
So it was a little store.
But I can see it.
I can visualize it without thinking I'm acting now.
I lean forward and I imagine her holding me in the lap.
That's all a story is.
It doesn't have to be funny, although it could be.
But what you don't want to do is try to go through a biography.
You don't want to talk about where the person went to elementary school or honors in college.
At this point, that's not important.
That's not what people remember.
That's not what they want to talk about.
They want about they want to hear about how you connected at a human level with that person.
And that's what you need to put into your eulogy.
You need stories that involve real conversations with this person, what they did for you, how they
made you feel, what were the circumstances.
That's what makes a story.
It doesn't have to be something worthy of turning it into a movie.
It doesn't have to be funny, although if it is funny and doesn't seem mean spirited in any way, by
all means, people are feeling tense.
A little laughter can really provide relief at certain points in a eulogy.
So don't steer away from humor if you've got a funny story to tell.
But it needs to be authentic.
It needs to be real.
It can't just be something from a joke.
It needs to be something that really evokes the memory of the person who passed.
So here's what I need you to do right now.
You've got to look at your outline, the big strengths, the core things that happened in this person's
life.
And you need a story for each one of these to make it come alive, to make it memorable.
Now, your stories don't have to be thirty minutes long.
You might be able to tell a story in a minute.
You may have multiple stories, but right now I want you to brainstorm on stories that really magnify
this person's strengths, positive qualities.
So you want to write it all out.
But I want you to write just a couple of notes that will remind you of the story.
So, for example, the one I just told about my mother, I had a little outline when I was giving the
eulogy and I just had a couple of sentences, you know, smartest boy in the world.
Now, I could talk about it for a minute.
I wasn't reading.
I had memorized anything.
I just shared an experience.
That's what a good eulogy is really about.
It's about sharing experiences you had with the loved one who passed away.
So that's your homework right now.
I need you to come up with stories.
This is the fundamental bedrock of the eulogy.

--- More Story Sources ---

When you're putting together the eulogy and looking for those stories, you can draw from other people,
too.
This is not the time to hire a professional speechwriter.
You don't want anything professional and artificial.
So ask other people about their best memory of this loved one.
This isn't complicated, but if someone passed away yesterday or two days ago and the eulogy is tomorrow,
either talk to them at the wake or someplace else or call them and just say, hey, is there anything
you can share with me about a particular experience you had with Grandma or grandpa or whoever it was,
and just listen to them and then you can use their story when you're delivering the eulogy.
Now you say it's them.
You can say.
And Cousin Billy said to me, T.J., I'll never forget the time when grandma go right into that story
of Cousin Billy.
It's still going to resonate.
It's still going to have impact.
And that way, it's not all about you and just your relationship with the person who passed away.
You're kind of sharing the spotlight with others.
So that's the best source of material.
It's not about sitting in front of a typewriter or computer at 2:00 in the morning the night before.
It's not about hiring a professional speechwriter.
It's just about asking the people who knew this individual the best to share their experiences, to
share stories about things this person did that meant something to them.
So if you don't have enough of your own stories, believe me, they're going to be other stories from
other family members and loved ones.
So all you have to do is ask.

--- Here is An Honest, Ethical Way to Cheat ---

Now it's time to put it all together on a piece of paper.
I want you to have a simple, simple outline, a cheat sheet that really focuses on these handful of
points, the big strengths you want to cover, the big traits that you want to talk about in this person.
And then a story for each one.
And a couple of words to remind you of the story.
And I want you to end up with just a single sheet of paper.
It could be this small.
Ideally, you can fit it bent over like that or maybe even like this, but you don't want to do is get
up to whatever venue where the eulogy is and pull out 10 sheets of paper and start reading.
And that is about as personal as an annual board meeting of an accounting firm.
It just doesn't seem personal.
It doesn't seem authentic, frankly, doesn't seem respectful to the person who passed you.
Again, you're not there to do the official biography of this person for the ages.
You're there to help the grieving process, to have a send off, to put a spotlight on the wonderful
traits about this person that everyone will now miss.
So, again, I would recommend a cheat sheet, make the font large so that you don't have to stop and
put on glasses, make it very large because let's face it, you may be misty eyed if you're wearing
contacts or glasses, it may be harder to see.
That's why you want a nice, clean, simple outline that you can just glance down, whether using a
lectern, a table, or even if you have to hold it, have it on a single sheet of paper that doesn't
take up any more space than this.
Even if you're going to talk for 20 minutes, you should be able to fit your main bullet points.
A couple of words to remind you of those traits and those stories.
It should all fit on a single piece of paper.
If you can't fit it on a single sheet of paper, you haven't really done your homework yet of editing
down to what's most important.
So come up with your notes right now.

--- Don't Drink Booze ---

We're going to practice the eulogy in just a moment, but I want to give you a few more tips on a couple
of things I really don't want you to do.
I understand if you do that, but it's not helping.
The first one is drinking.
I understand funerals.
People drink to drown their sorrows.
If you're giving a eulogy, you may think it's giving you courage.
It's not the problem with drinking, if you're speaking, is it can slow down your ability to have recall.
So if you're up there nervous in front of people anyway, the alcohol can slow down your ability to
recall information.
And then you have that.
Oh, I'm sorry.
You're looking scared.
You're looking uncomfortable now instead of the sympathy going to the person who just passed, you're
getting sympathy because people are, oh, is he going to make it through this?
You you don't want people's sympathy for your speech.
You may want the sympathy because this was a close person you lost.
But the focus should be on the person who just passed away, not on whether or not you're going to get
through this speech.
So I would avoid alcohol because it can slow down your ability to recall information and to think clearly.
You may think it's going to give you confidence.
I've got other techniques to give you confidence, so don't worry about that.
The other problem a lot of people have with alcohol is it just makes them red and it can make them sweat
and that makes them look uncomfortable.
And finally, if you've had more than a little, it can slow your speech.
So instead of putting honor on the person who just passed away, people are thinking, does this person
have a drinking problem or are they drinking just because they're sad about a funeral?
You don't want people speculating on that.
That's why I would recommend you're the one delivering the eulogy any time of day or even if it's the
evening time, just don't drink until after the eulogy, please.
It's not that much to ask.
The second big thing to avoid is trying to read out a whole speech, word for word, because you want
to get it just right.
This is not a speech that's going to be judged on getting it just right or leaving something else.
Oh, my gosh.
I forgot when they were twenty three, they had an internship at the such and such.
You know, your job as the person delivering the eulogy is not to give the entire chronology of the
person's life.
It's to put a spotlight on the highlights, the high moments, the good things about this person.
And that's the real problem with trying to read the speech.
If you're reading the speech, especially if you're not a full time professional newscaster, you are
going to sound like this.
You were going to sound flat and you were going to say on sound monotone and you were going to sound
about as interesting and as interested as if you are reading the phone book.
That's why you can't read the eulogy and be effective.
It destroys the personal element.
Plus, you're not going to be able to look at people.
I mean, you should be looking at various loved ones throughout this eulogy presentation.
And again, it is a presentation.
So please keep in mind, don't drink alcohol before you speak.
Don't read the speech.
Those are too big, big, no no's.
I'll address another one in just a moment.

--- Tears Can Flow, But No Blubbering ---

We have to talk about emotion.
This is a funeral, you're delivering the eulogy.
I don't have to tell you to act sad.
Presumably you are sad now, even if someone is one hundred years old, they've accomplished everything
they ever dreamed of and died peacefully in their sleep.
You're still sad about losing this person, even though their death at that moment might not be particularly
tragic.
So I'm not suggesting you have to take on the demeanor of a stand up comic and be ha laughing all the
time, although humor can be very appropriate if it spotlights the things that make that person special
and amplify the person who's just passed away that person's sense of humor.
Humor can be great, but here's the issue with emotion.
When it comes to you, you want to strike the right chord, the right level, because if you're just
reading, for example, bla bla bla bla bla bla, it seems emotionless and it's as if you didn't even
know the person.
The other big problem in eulogies, frankly, is that people are so emotional, they're so sad, they're
just blubbering.
I don't mean to sound mean, folks.
I don't want to sound cruel, but it is an honor for you to be able to deliver this eulogy and you need
to take it seriously.
If you just get up there and start crying and blubbering, you're not honoring that person.
Yeah.
You're letting people know that you're sad and you miss the person, but now becomes more about you.
Oh, I hope he gets through this eulogy.
He so you want to direct the audience, the family members focus on the person who just died, not on
you.
So that's why I do think it's critical for you to have a plan to get through this eulogy without falling
apart, without falling to pieces.
Now, you may love this person more than anyone in your whole life, but you do want to honor this person.
You'll do more honor by really talking about the great moments rather than just crying.
And you have plenty of time to cry later alone or with family or friends or other people.
Just not now when you're trying to deliver the eulogy.
The number one way to not cry is to practice on video.
And I'm going to show you how to do that in a moment.
But if you practice the eulogy several times on video, you become familiar with it.
You're not saying it for the first time.
So it's not opening up new wounds the same time.
If you simply write out a speech or write down an outline and you are saying it for the very first time
in front of people and there's the casket, it's so much hitting you all at once.
It could be so intense that you just lose it.
And that's why it's crucial to rehearse in advance, and that way you can certainly be said, you can
be reflective, you can talk about how much this person will be missed, but people will be able to
understand you if you're just crying and blubbering and can't get through the eulogy, you're not really
accomplishing anything.
So now we're going to go on to the rehearsal.

--- Conclusion - How to Deliver a Eulogy ---

This concludes this course on how to deliver a eulogy again, I express my sympathies, condolences
to you, your family and loved ones, and I wish you luck in delivering this eulogy.
If you've done all the exercises at this point, you don't need luck.
You need to simply follow the plan.
You've isolated the core things that are really special about this person.
You've got good stories to remind people about all the good times, the wonderful elements about this
person.
You're going to strike just the right emotional chord and you're going to give an excellent sendoff
to this person and help everyone else in the room with this grieving process.
Good luck.

--- Don't Overthink This! Just Spotlight the Joyous Couple ---

So you've been selected to give a speech at a wedding.
Congratulations, this is an honor, it's prestige, it's fun, but it's not the biggest thing in the
world.
Let's not freak out about it.
Let's not become nervous Nellies just yet.
The state of the Western world is not hinging on your speech.
So you need to take some pressure off yourself.
All you really have to do is make people feel good about the bride and feel good about the groom or
the couple.
It really is that simple.
So the starting point is you've got to put this whole thing in perspective.
Yes.
You want to do a great job and I'm going to help you do a great job on this.
But let's take some of the pressure off right now, because I've seen people doing shot after shot and
taking drugs and pills and all that.
You can do a great job with this speech.
This type of a speech is actually much easier than most presentations in life.
I'm going to show you how to do it.

--- Here is the One Special Thing About the Bride or Groom ---

Here is your first assignment.
I want you to focus on just one thing you like about this bride or this groom or this couple, just
one thing that makes this person special, unique.
I mean, that's the beauty of a wedding speech.
You don't have to cover this person's entire life history.
You just need to put a spotlight on one thing, something that other people can realize.
Yeah, that's the one thing about that person.
Now, if this person is just especially loyal, then focus on that.
If this person is just more hardworking, more conscientious than anyone else, focus on that.
But I want you to have something clear cut in mind in one sentence.
So that's your first assignment right down in one sentence.
Exactly what this person's number one trait is, something you'll be putting a spotlight on in a moment.

--- Be Lazy, Just Tell A True Story ---

You've isolated that one special thing about the bride and the groom or both.
Now I want you to find a story that makes that point come alive.
Now, don't get creative here.
Just recount an actual experience you had with the bride or the groom or the couple.
This really is not complicated, folks.
If you want to make the point that the groom is just the most loyal guy in the world.
Talk about that time, your freshman year when you got too drunk and he had to hold your head up somewhere
in the restroom to keep you from getting even worse shape and hurting yourself.
And he missed his own date.
If that's the sort of example you have.
Very important, though, if you're going to talk about someone being drunk or crazy or waking up somewhere,
they shouldn't talk about yourself.
Don't talk about the bride of the groom.
Many people, especially after one or two of these, they just feel too free to say wildly embarrassing
things at wedding speeches.
Keep in mind, many of these speeches may be video recorded.
This is something the bride or groom may want to show their children, their grandchildren 50 years
from now.
Nobody wants to hear about grandma grandpa being a big --.
OK, so focus on making yourself the butt of the jokes.
If you're going to use humor to make it gentle humor, use good taste for these wedding speeches, especially
when future in-laws are in the room.
It's OK to have fun.
Humor is good, but it shouldn't be attacking, biting humor.
If you want to audition to be a roast masseuse for Comedy Central's next roast, fine.
Don't do it at the wedding speech.
Find a story that illustrates the person's character in a positive way and recounted.
Talk about where you were, what you were feeling, what you said to the bride, or what they said back,
how they were feeling, how this problem was resolved, how it somehow all worked out.
In the end, that's what will make people feel good about the couple.
They'll also feel good about you, the speaker tip.
And you know what?
This is so much easier than giving someone the whole long laundry list of this person's history and
everything they've ever accomplished.
This isn't the time for it.
Now, a story might take a minute.
It might take eight minutes.
I wouldn't worry about the time.
If you focus on just one trait, one story, the time will probably take care of itself, because keep
in mind, the audience isn't there to hear you give speeches.
People would like for the speeches to be good, but they want to get to the bar.
They want to get to the dance floor.
They want to hear the band.
If it's a bachelorette party or bachelor party, they want to get on to other festivities.
So don't go on too long now.
Don't go the other way and speak so quickly because you want to hurry and finish it.
Don't be one of these people like.
Well, I know we want to sit down.
I want to hurry and finish this.
I'm going to get through.
Don't speak quickly.
Don't tell people you're nervous.
Don't say that you want to speak quickly so you can finish.
Just tell the story.
Make us feel good about this bride, this groom, this couple for the family members who are perhaps
distant family members, aunts, uncles, grandparents who might not really be that close to the bride
and groom, give them a window into who this person is.
That's what will make for a great wedding speech.
So that's your homework.
Now, think of a story that will magnify the one trait you think is most positive about this bride or
groom.

--- What Not to Do ---

You've heard me say what a wedding speech should be a chance for you to have people in the room feel
good about this bride and groom and to take away something else, perhaps they didn't know about him.
A nice experience, but let me spend a moment and talk about what a wedding speech is.
Not a wedding speech is not a chance for you to educate people on every single accomplishment this person
has ever had.
It's not the time for you to get out with something like that.
People see a whole bunch of papers and I think, oh, my God, this looks like a board meeting at a
county commission government meeting.
It's awful.
It's going to be painful.
They don't want to see you read when I first met the groom when he was five years old.
Nobody likes to be read to ask yourself, do you like it when people read to you, whether it's PowerPoint
or anything else?
The second you read, you've robbed yourself of the spontaneity of this.
A good wedding speech needs to sound like seem like you're just speaking from the heart.
Now, of course, you need to have planned you need to have prepared, you need to have rehearsed,
but you should simply be speaking to people.
You need to be looking at the bride or the groom or the couple or the family members.
When you're talking about them.
If you are looking at this and there's no eye contact, it really robs the moment.
I know what you're saying.
Oh, I'm going to be so nervous.
I'm not going to remember what to say.
I'm going to walk you through that.
Don't worry.
You're not going to have to remember that much.
Remember, this is not you pitching a venture capitalist and you're trying to go through all the numbers
of your projections of how much money you're going to make every quarter for the next three years.
It's not that sort of a presentation.
You just have to focus on one or two good traits, a story to make it come alive, to make people feel
good about the couple you're honoring here.
So get rid of the text.
Don't even think of reading.
Just don't even think about it.
You're going to think, well, it's going to help you.
It's not going to help you.
It's going to make you seem like a bit of a boring hack.
So I beg you, do not have a speech that you're going to read word for word.
It simply is not appropriate.
It lends an air of formality to something in a bad way.
You have not won the Nobel Peace Prize.
You won the Nobel Peace Prize.
Fine.
I'll let you read a speech.
That's not what this wedding speech is about.
Don't make the mistake of going on and on and on too long.
Remember, people want to get to the bar.
They want to get to the dance floor.
They're not here to listen to you.
Humor is good, but don't try your stuff from your stand up comedy training course and a whole bunch
of new zingers and gadgets that seem overly contrived.
Don't use canned humor from the book.
Instead, simply retell stories that make fun of yourself when something funny happens.
But let people make the judgment that it's funny.
Don't tell them it's funny.
Don't telegraph that you're up here doing this stand up comedy.
It shouldn't necessarily be stand up comedy.
It shouldn't be generic at all.
Everything needs to be focused on that bride, that groom, that couple.
If you do that, you'll be in great shape.
So remember, don't read.
Don't go on too long.
Certainly don't think you're being funny by being overly personal and nasty.
Now, I understand if it's a bachelor party or bachelorette party and there are no video cameras around
and it's late at night and everyone's had a few.
OK, let's change the rules for that.
But when you're at the wedding, when their family members present, when their father in law and mother
in law is present, that's not the time to be risque.
If you're going to make fun of someone, someone's going to be the butt of the joke.
Make sure it's you make sure that the bride, the groom, that they come out smelling like a rose.
Do that.
You'll be in good shape.

--- Booze It Up, But Only After Your Speech ---

I'm drinking water right now, and that is exactly what I would recommend you drink if it's the evening
when you are giving a wedding speech.
Now, I'm not saying this because I'm a teetotaller and I want you to live a virtuous life every minute.
I'm doing it because I've seen countless occasions, wedding speeches where the person just had too
much to drink.
And they think, wow, if I just have a couple more drinks, I'll be late and I'll be loose and it'll
be easy.
No, it's harder to think clearly.
It's easier just to start laughing in a way that isn't funny for anyone else.
It's easier to be red faced and you're not going to remember the main idea you want to convey in the
story you want to convey.
Now, certainly, it's a festive time.
I want you to be a part of the festivities, but my recommendation is don't drink any alcohol until
after you've given your speech.
You can call it liquid courage.
It doesn't make you more courageous.
It often messes up your memory, your short term memory, your ability to recall.
And if their family members and friends who haven't seen you in 10 years or maybe ever, and their only
impression of you is you're getting up and sort of slurring your speech and laughing in a way that isn't
funny to anyone else.
It's not going to make a good impression and it's not going to put a spotlight on the bride and groom.
Let's not lose sight of that.
This event is about the bride and the groom.
So if all of a sudden you're too tipsy, people are worried about you, they're focused on you, don't
do it.
So I beg you have as much as you want to drink later before your speech happens.
Water.

--- Focus on Bride and Groom ---

Focus on the broad, focus on the group, focus on the couple, you've heard me say that, but I've
been to countless weddings where the person getting up to give the speech doesn't do that.
The first thing people do is, oh, my gosh, I'm so nervous.
What they're really saying is me, me, me, me.
It's all about me.
Now, I understand you may feel nervous, but don't waste time talking about how nervous you are.
People know you're nervous or they just don't care if you're nervous.
It's not about you.
You're not getting married today.
So focus on the bride, focus on the groom.
Make this a special moment about them.
And whatever you do, don't waste time talking about the fact that you're nervous.
Don't talk about your speech.
Just speak.
Don't talk about.
Well, I was I was late last night thinking about what all I'm going to say in my pithy speech today.
Don't talk about your speech.
It sounds pompous.
Don't talk about how you feel about your speech.
Don't talk about being nervous to speak.
Tell people about this wonderful ride, this wonderful groom, why they're special to you.
Focus on your audience.
And guess what?
You're not even going to be able to feel nervous because you're feeling happiness for the bride and
groom.
Focus on the happiness you're feeling for them and your nerves.
It don't completely melt away.
They won't percolate up to the top.
Your happiness will be what's on top.

--- Conclusion to How to Give a Wedding Speech ---

You should be ready for this wedding, you should be feeling very comfortable and confident in the wedding
speech you're going to give if you've done what I've asked.
Let's recap.
We're going to focus on just one quality that's really special, that is unique about the bride, the
groom, the couple.
And you're going to tell a story about it and you're going to smile and have fun with it and not upset
and not try to give the Gettysburg Address.
You're going to rehearse on video.
Watch it.
Keep doing it till you like it.
And ideally, send your best video to a few other friends and get feedback from them.
If you do that, it's going to be really difficult to not do well in this speech and to not go in to
the speech with a lot of confidence.
I do want to leave you with just a couple of thoughts that will make it even better.
Smile.
This is a joyous occasion.
This is not a eulogy sometimes people are so focused on.
I've got to get through this speech and their face is almost blank and they look about as excited as
if they were reading a phone book at a wedding.
You don't want that.
So you want a smile.
You want the joy of the occasion to be coming through your face.
It's more important than what you say that you set the mood of this is a happy time.
This is a joyous time.
These are happy, wonderful people, and they deserve happy, wonderful times.
If that comes through in your wedding speech, you're going to give a great speech.
Good luck.

--- Having the Perfect Mindset for Your Ceremonial Speech ---

There are certain times in your life that are going to involve ceremony, whether it is you getting
sworn into a local office at school board member, whether it's being head of the PTA, whether it is
you officiating someone else's wedding or perhaps entering the US Senate or the presidency, these are
all marked by certain ceremonial speeches.
Now, it's not the time to start telling stories, be engaging all the normal things of stagecraft.
It is the time to get it just right to stick to the script.
Easier said than done.
This course is going to teach you a step by step way of preparing.
It's not going to take days and days and days.
But you do want to put some preparation to this so you can get it just right.
Let's hop in now.

--- Making Your Ceremonial Speech Matter ---

First of all, I want to commend you for taking the whole concept of ceremonial speeches as important
to many people, say, well, you know, it's just uttering a few words.
It's just the procedure is just really no big deal.
And then they get up, they're nervous, they're uncomfortable.
Maybe there's tears in their eyes.
Maybe they forgot their glasses.
They didn't make the large enough.
They're listening to someone.
They're supposed to repeat it, but they don't quite hear it the right way.
All sorts of things that can go wrong when you're giving a short ceremonial speech.
Here's the thing, though, for many people in the audience and these days watching on YouTube, on
the Internet, if you get it wrong, that could be your legacy.
That could be what people talk about is the mistake.
So you don't want to get it wrong.
You want to prepare.
It's a different sort of preparation.
It's not like preparing a 60 minute keynote speech.
It doesn't involve PowerPoint.
So it is deceptively simple, but it can still be easy to screw up if you trip over words.
I mean, look no further than Barack Obama's inaugural address in 2012.
The Chief Justice Roberts kind of messed it up.
And believe it or not, there were even some frivolous lawsuits saying that Barack Obama wasn't legally
entitled to hold the office because he got one of the words wrong, his oath of office.
The Constitution does mandate that presidents take a particular oath.
Now people are picking on presidents of either party all the time.
That might not happen to you.
But the point is you've got to take it seriously.
If you don't get it just right, it can cause all sorts of headaches.
And that's why it does take some preparation, some thought and some planning.
We're going to hop in right now.

--- Learn the Secret to Reading Without Stumbling and Fumbling ---

Repeat after me, I do solemnly swear that I will faithfully execute the office of president of the
United States and will, to the best of my ability, preserve, protect and defend the Constitution
of the United States.
Thirty five words, simple, and yet, as I've mentioned, that has been bungled by Supreme Court justices
and therefore the problems repeated by the president elect, it's a simple, simple phrase.
People know it's coming now.
Just then I didn't screw it up.
Is it because I'm smarter than the Supreme Court justice?
No, it's because it's because I have perfect vision.
Now, I actually need glasses to read almost anything.
But I got that right because I was reading a big, big, big cheat sheet.
I made the font so large.
I mean, it's huge that I could simply glance down and get it right.
So that's far and away.
My largest tip for you is when you have some sort of a swearing in ceremony, some official wording,
type it up, blow it up and make it huge, have it completely, fill the sheet.
If it's a really long and by long, I mean more than thirty five words.
If you even need two sheets of paper, you can, although ideally it fits on a single sheet of paper.
That way you're not fumbling with glasses.
You're not having to do all this.
You can simply glance down, scoop up a few words and keep going.
This keeps you on track.
If someone has to repeat your words, it's going to be a lot easier for them to.
And it just takes all the pressure off things.
Because here's the thing about ceremonies is there's lots of emotion.
You may be incredibly happy.
It may be the crowning achievement of your life to be sworn in as president of the American Bar Association,
for example.
But when you're feeling all these emotions, that's the worst possible time to put extra pressure on
your brain to recall information and to really use that memory.
So don't put that extra pressure on yourself.
Don't force your brain to work.
It's a lot easier to just be there, be happy to have good energy, relax.
And if you need to just glance down at the words and even read, there's nothing wrong with that whatsoever
for a ceremonial speech because people understand these aren't your words.
You're supposed to follow someone else's words, word for word.
These are the words that the organization, whether it's the United States government, your local civic
group, your local afterschool special club, whatever it is, these are words that your organization
has decided should be uttered for ceremonial purposes, often for symbolic purposes.
And that's why many people like to use very specific traditional wedding vows.
It's because someone didn't just create that minister or whoever is the officiant didn't just come up
with the stuff that day.
You want to come up with your own vows.
That's fine.
That's a separate issue.
That's why I recommend Be Lazy, Cheat, Have a cheat sheet.
But the cheat sheet needs to be usable.
And the problem most people have is if they type out in normal font size, you're used to holding the
script like this.
So when you have it on a table or you have it further away, you're simply not used to reading normal
font and you don't really want to be doing all that.
So what happens is people are kind of squint and that's when you get a word or phrase wrong or you start
the wrong sentence and then you had to go back and then you had to repeat or don't set yourself up for
failure at a nice, big, gigantic text, a billboard just for you so you don't have to memorize anything
and the pressure's off.
So that's my first bit of homework for you.
Find some ceremonial speech you have to give, whether it is the acceptance speech for the Little League
coach of the year or whatever it is and type it out, printed out in very large font.
Do that now, please.

--- Giving the Presentation So That It's Not About You ---

A ceremonial speech is by definition a formal speech, though I get a little nervous when people use
the phrase formal speech in most situations, because typically what the average speaker means is I'm
giving a formal presentation is they want to have a license to do a boring data dump to tell people,
their board of directors about everything they've done in the last quarter.
It may feel formal because you're in a stuffy boardroom and people are important that you're talking
to.
But if you make it formal in the sense of I'm going to be stiff and straight and read, especially if
it's for 10, 15, 20 minutes, that's not a formal speech.
That's an awful speech.
That's a boring speech because you're not saying anything that's particularly interesting and memorable,
which is the goal of most presentations.
Ceremonial presentations are different.
You're not trying to come up with new concepts.
You're not trying to dazzle people with your cleverness, with your original ideas.
In fact, this is a time to take the spotlight off of you and put the spotlight back on the office or
the occasion, whether it's the wedding, whether it is the funeral, it's a way of getting people to
reflect on larger values, eternal values, things that are not new and things that are not associated
with your ideas.
You're there to simply put a spotlight on that and to help the process of a particular activity.
So that's what's very different about ceremonial speeches.
In some ways, it does make it easier.
You don't have to go out of your way to juice it up to make it more invigorating or exciting.
You're not trying to put your personal stamp on the ceremonial speech as much.
So please keep that in mind.
This is the one time when you're giving a presentation where your personality shouldn't overwhelm your
message.

--- Look Classy by NOT Talking About Honor or Nerves ---

When you're giving a ceremonial speech, focus on the task at hand, the moment at hand, and that means
it's not all about me, me, me, me, me.
So at the beginning of your ceremonial speech, I wouldn't talk about, oh, gosh, this is such a big
honor.
Wow.
I'm so honored.
There may be a point later on when you do have free reign to speak about the event and what's going
on.
But for the official ceremonial part, don't talk about what an honor it is for you.
Also, don't talk about how nervous you are.
Oh, my gosh, I'm nervous.
I hope I don't mess up the oath of office because it's not about you.
It's about what is actually going on.
The institutions involved don't make everything about you.
Don't talk about how you're feeling about this ceremonial speech, this ceremonial presentation.
Just deliver the presentation.

--- People Will Hear You - Volume ---

The good news is that when you were giving a ceremonial speech, you don't have to come up with all
sorts of new ideas and clever creative stories.
You don't have to be funny.
You don't have to walk all over the stage.
In many ways, the ceremonial speech is much, much easier than many speeches.
But there are still a couple of things that won't really mar the presentation.
For starters, being so nervous that you're so quiet, people can understand you.
What did I say?
They're being so nervous that you're so soft spoken.
People can't understand you.
It's a common problem.
All of a sudden you're standing in front of more people than you've ever stood in front of you shrink
up your vocal cords, tighten up and your whispering.
Well, if you've just been elected to the United States Senate or president or head of your local Kiwanis
Club, that's not the time to send a message to people that you're timid, scared, nervous, easily
frightened.
I'm not suggesting that your bombastic and yelling at people, but you need good volume because what's
the point of the ceremony and people gathering if they can't literally hear you?
So when we start to practice in a couple of lessons from now, I really want you to listen to make sure
that you're loud enough.
It's a very common problem and it can mar an otherwise fine performance when you're giving your ceremonial
speech.

--- You Will Speak at Just the Right Speed - Don't Rush ---

When you're giving a ceremonial speech and you're a little bit nervous, the tendency can be to rush
to speak too quickly because you figure, hey, I want to get through this, or if I'm reading, you're
going to read quickly.
If you're nervous, you can lose perspective of your speed.
But if you're rushing, you're going to look scared, you're going to look nervous, you're going to
look uncomfortable.
And people are going to stop focusing on the ceremony of the moment and instead start focusing on you.
And as you've heard me say, the focus should be on you, whether you're comfortable, uncomfortable,
nervous, any of that.
The focus should be on the ceremonial aspects of what's going on today.
That's why it's critically important you don't rush.
So you'll be monitoring for that closely in a moment when we start doing our practice videos of your
speech.

--- Conclusion to How to Give a Ceremonial Speech ---

I want to thank you for joining me for this course on how to give a ceremonial speech, the fact that
you've gotten this far shows that you're taking this a lot more seriously than most people.
And that by itself is a good indication that you are likely to succeed.
Now, if you really followed the number one principle I recommend here, which is videotape yourself
giving the ceremonial speech until you're happy with it, you're going to be in great shape.
Very few people do that.
I guarantee you less than one percent of people do that.
If you do that, you'll be in great shape beyond that.
Just remember some of the basics.
Have a nice cheat sheet if you need it.
Don't try to memorize.
Don't rush.
Really think about how you're standing.
If it's a standing speech, think about your speed and your volume and try to have some fun with it.
This is probably a day of celebration.
There are exceptions, funerals, obviously, but if it is a day of celebration, let that smile come
across your face when you're speaking.
Let that joy come across when you're speaking.
If it's a certain honor, if you're being sworn into a major office, let the honor exude and just come
out of your pores and let it come out of your voice.
Do that and you will be in great shape for your ceremonial presentation and all the other presentations
you give in life.
Thanks again for joining me.
I'm TJ Walker.
Good luck with your ceremonial speeches and all other speeches.

--- Go Out With a Bang! ---

So congratulations, you're about to retire.
That's good news, I hope for you and now you have the opportunity to give a farewell speech.
This may be the last business speech you ever give.
Now, you may be going down to the street to work for the competitor or be hired back at the company.
You're leaving as a consultant.
So I don't mean to presume, but it's still a special moment.
You're not just being escorted out the door unceremoniously.
Your fellow workers, your colleagues are holding a party or some sort of an event for you where you're
going to be allowed to speak.
You're going to give your retirement speech.
Let's make it a good one.
Now, this is obviously not the time to settle scores, to reopen old, bitter things that happened
with employees that you're perhaps not as fond of.
This is the time to spotlight the good things you've done to this organization, the people you've worked
with, the positive memories.
You want to leave people with a good taste in their mouth with you because you don't know what the future
holds.
You may need their help if you're running for mayor city council, you may want them to hire you back
as a consultant until years when things have gone south and the company and your expertise is needed.
So you may be retiring, but it never hurts to leave on positive terms to build goodwill.
I'm not asking you to lie and sugarcoat things if you hated it, but let's focus on the positive.
There must have been something there at this organization that kept you coming back.
Let's focus on that.
So in a moment, we're going to hop right in with the exercises to get you prepped and ready and confident
about this.
But right now, I just want you to start to think and reflect upon what did you really enjoy in this
organization?
What meant something to you?

--- Re-Live the 3 Best Events of Your Career ---

So for starters, we have to really define what a retirement speech is and what it isn't so we can narrow
our focus in preparation.
It's not a speech to the board of directors.
It's not a speech to analysts at a quarterly conference calls.
You don't have to go over every single success by a quarter or every single jump up in the stock price.
That's not the time for that sort of speech.
You certainly don't need PowerPoint, although if you want to do use pictures in one, there's nothing
wrong with that.
But you don't need to have a PowerPoint presentation.
I also don't think you need to worry about it being a certain length.
Now, you don't want to go on all night, but if this is a lunchtime party or an evening dinner in your
honor, you don't have to worry about it being just two minutes long.
This is the last time people are ever going to have to hear from you in this particular organization,
potentially.
So they've gathered in your honor.
They'll listen to you.
So I wouldn't worry about the length.
It could be 10 minutes.
It could be twenty nine minutes.
If it's interesting and heartfelt, people will listen to you and they will like it and they will respect
it.
So what do we really want to accomplish in this speech?
I think what you want to do is put a highlight on your time there, focus on the things you did that
really meant something to you, where you feel it helped the world, it helped you.
It helped the clients customers in some meaningful way.
And to talk about the people you worked with, what they meant to you personally, what you liked about
that, what you enjoy.
This is a chance for you to make the whole organization feel good about themselves and about you.
It's not a time to settle scores or to say, well, I'll never have to see these people.
I'll tell what I really think.
I'm not asking you to lie or sugarcoat.
I'm simply suggesting that, like at a funeral, that's not the time to pick on someone's faults.
Who just died.
This isn't a funeral.
It's a retirement.
But it's just not the time to pick on scabs or old wounds.
It's a time to put a spotlight on accomplishments, on your career, what you're proud of and what you
think the organization should be proud of.
And the good news is you don't have to educate people on everything.
If you've been there for 40 years, you don't have to tell them about everything you did.
You just want to put a spotlight on two or three things that really meant something to you.
So that's what I want you to do now.
I want you to write down everything you're really proud of.
And it might be something totally inconsequential to the bottom line.
It may be help you help the smallest customer one time get a product delivered to her home because she
couldn't get to your store.
It doesn't have to be about the bottom line, but there needs to be some human element to it.
I want you to brainstorm right now and let's come up with three things that have happened during your
career that were meaningful to you and where you can start to tell a story about it.
So come up with those ideas right now.

--- Know Exactly What to Say By Following This Speech Outline ---

So what should the actual structure of your retirement speech be?
I don't think you want to write it all out if you absolutely insist you can.
But I want to tempt you against reading it.
Reading it makes it seem impersonal.
It makes it seem like a quarterly conference call with analysts and there's an SEC attorney behind you.
This is a personal moment.
So I would recommend not reading your speech.
And your structure is fairly simple.
You thank the people who meant something to you and you thank them specifically.
And you mentioned specific acts.
You tell stories recounting specific things you and your team did that were meaningful to you and perhaps
to others.
And you make people feel good about themselves.
And you really you make them realize that you feel good about them and you wish everyone continued success.
That's it.
Now, you could spend a half an hour doing that, but it's not a typical business speech where you have
to get the wording just right.
Because let's face it, no one is recording every minute of this and going to be picking it apart and
criticizing in the newspaper tomorrow because of your retirement speech.
Most likely so.
It's not a typical business speech where you've got to get every word right and there's the teleprompter.
It's not like that.
It's really an opportunity for you to thank people, to make them feel good about themselves.
Your time there, a moment of reflection for yourself, what this career meant to you, what this place
meant to you, what these people meant to you, and a chance to make everyone feel good about your tenure
there.
So when I asked to do in the previous lecture was to come up with three specific examples.
And what I want you to do now is to tell a story about it.
And a story is simply you recounting a real problem.
I mean, all of us have problems with clients, customers, colleagues, particular challenges to state,
what the problem was, what the client said to you, or what one of your colleagues said to you, where
you were, where you're in the warehouse, where you own the penthouse of the building, where you on
the client's location at their office or their where were you when this problem happened?
What did the client say to you?
What did your colleagues say to you?
How did you feel about it, where you're feeling depressed or bummed out, worried?
And how was it resolved?
Had everything worked its way through?
How did you work together as a team?
That's it.
That's all the story is.
It's you talking about a problem recounting a real conversation you had with real customers, clients,
colleagues, other employees, how you felt about it, how you solve the problem, how it was resolved.
That's all you really need.
And a story and describing the setting.
People will be able to reexperience it with you.
The more your stories relate to things that everyone in the room can understand, the better.
And then what's going to make it so meaningful is when you think Sally in accounting or James and it
when you thank the people in very, very specific, meaningful terms of what they did, getting you
out of a jam, helping you with a crisis that's so much more meaningful than sounding like a B level
actor who's won an award.
I'd like to thank the following director, my accountant, my CPA.
You don't want to sound like you're just giving some sort of generic thanks.
You want it to seem heartfelt.
You want to be looking directly at people when you're talking about it, when you're reliving that situation.
That was horrible at the time, but we can now laugh at it.
You need to be smiling and laughing about it and looking at the person who got caught with mud all over
them or something embarrassing happened.
And if you're going to talk about something embarrassing, make yourself the butt of the jokes.
I mean, you don't have to worry about your corporate reputation here or your organization or reputation
that much because you're retiring.
So you can be a little looser.
I'm not suggesting you get risque and say wildly off color or politically incorrect things, but you
can be a little looser in this situation.
It's simply not as formal a presentation.
So do you want to make fun of yourself?
Now is the perfect time to do it.
So here's what I want you to do with your speech.
Rather than write it all up.
I'd really like you to have a simple one page outline, and I'd like you to have names of the people
you really want to think I'd like and have.
Bullet points that remind you of particular stories, things that happen once you see those three words,
you know exactly what you want to say for the next three or four minutes.
You're recounting that story.
You're thanking the people who are involved.
You're talking about really what you learn from it, why it was so meaningful to you.
And that is the bulk of your speech outline right there.
And then and beyond that, if you want to give people some indication of what you might be doing, I
mean, if you've been a lifelong fan of bird watching and now you and your spouse are going to travel
the world on international bird watching safari and no one else knows about it, they would love to
hear that about you.
They'd love to know that you're going to continue with an active life.
And you're not just sitting home and watching television.
You're doing something meaningful with your life.
So now's the time to share with people what you're doing.
If they don't all know and just end on a positive note, it's a night for positive emotions.
I realize you may have mixed emotions and it may be bittersweet, but it is time to accentuate the positive.
So your assignment right now is I want you to come up with a simple one page outline list, the names
of the people you want to thank.
In particular, three stories that really dramatize for you the key moments of your career here, the
events that really meant something to you, where there was a problem and you can tell a real story.
Please do that.
Now, come up with the outline.

--- 1st Video Rehearsal ---

So now you have your speech outline, it's time to practice the speech, but bear with me, you're not
going to want to do this.
You're not going to enjoy it.
But it really is going to take all the pressure off for the evening and it's going to make you come
across your best.
So why not?
What I'm going to ask you to do is to practice your retirement speech using just your single sheet of
notes.
And I want you to rehearse on video.
You can simply pull out your cell phone.
You can use a webcam.
If you don't have that, you may have a child or grandchild who can pull out that cell phone and record
you.
I know you're think, well, it's not that big a deal.
I'm not going on CNBC.
It's it doesn't cost anything.
It's going to make it so much better.
You'll feel so much more relaxed.
So that's what I want you to do.
I want you to give your speech and you can have just one family member present.
But practice your speech.
Don't just read it silently.
Don't just say it out loud.
Don't say it to the media.
That's a complete, utter waste of time, because if you practice your speech in front of a mirror,
you're going to say, well, gosh, is my nose getting crooked?
Am I losing more here?
Don't practice in front of a mirror, practice in front of a real human being, have nothing else.
Practice with no one else in the room and just hold your cell phone out and record video of yourself.
I want you to do that.
Then I want you to watch the speech and I want you to critique it.
I want you to be a harsh judge of yourself, but be a fair judge.
Write down a list of things you like and write a list of things you don't like.
So at this point, we're not trying to change your accent or make you thirty pounds thinner.
So if you see your video of yourself and you're like me, you got a little tip.
Don't worry about that.
Now let's just focus on did it make sense?
Were you clear?
Easy to understand.
Did people hear you?
Did you have an interesting example?
Do you think you came across as sincere?
Did you look up and thanked people by name?
Those are all good things.
On the other hand, let's look at what we don't like.
If you think you were too monotone or seem too sad or the things just seemed generic or you didn't really
say anything interesting, well, make a note of that, too.
So give your speech now.
Record it, grade yourself.
You've probably seen other retirement speeches.
Most of them you don't really remember much one way or the other.
You may remember a really awful one, but you might remember one that really worked well.
So use those as reference points when grading yourself.
So give the speech recorded on video and grade yourself now.

--- Final Tips on Giving a Retirement Speech ---

Couple of final notes, hey, this is a retirement event, it's your retirement speech, it's not a
stuffy, formal business affair and it's perfectly fine to have a little more emotion than usual.
But don't fall apart.
I've seen it.
You've seen it.
People can sometimes just fall apart in their retirement speech and they're crying.
They're blubbering.
I'm going to miss everyone in the world to do with my life.
That's just not the time for it.
Now, the beauty of the techniques I've recommended where you actually rehearse on video is you become
so comfortable with the speech, how you're going to deliver it, that it's much easier to keep your
emotions in check.
And I'm not asking you to be Spock.
I'm not asking you to be a robot.
There's nothing wrong with being sad.
But you don't want and expressing how you're going to miss people, but you don't want it to stop the
actual presentation.
You don't want to have to stop and sit down and not be able to give your presentation.
So you want to be able to keep your emotions in check.
That's another benefit of practicing on video.
It's going to be a lot easier to do that.
One final thing.
I mean, it's probably an evening event, dinner.
There may be champagne flowing or other adult beverages of choice.
Here's my recommendation.
I don't want to sound like an old fuddy duddy teetotaller, and I.
I certainly enjoy a glass of wine here and there.
I'm recommending that you don't drink any alcohol until your retirement speech is over.
The reason for that is alcohol.
Even one glass can slow down.
Recall if you're giving a speech and it's an emotional evening anyway, that extra drag on your memory
can sometimes slow you down and cause awkwardness.
Oh, what was I going to say if I forgot one of those senior moment?
You don't want to do that.
My recommendation?
No alcohol.
Alcohol could also make you more emotional.
And we don't need more emotion at this moment.
We can also make you just sweat a little.
Do you really want that to be the last impression people have of you?
So for that reason and I recommend this to people for any speech, any presentation, any talk, they
do wait until after your presentation and then let the toasts fly.

--- You Will Convince People to Hire You and Your Organization ---

Giving a new business pitch can be an awkward presentation for many people, in some ways we're too
close to it.
It's hard to talk about ourselves.
It's hard to really know the right perspective when you're talking about what it is you do all day long
for days, weeks, months, years, sometimes decades.
So what happens to most new business pitches?
In my experience, the problem people have is they just give way too much data.
It becomes an incredibly boring data dump, hears every single thing we do and every single city we're
in and every single service we provide.
And the prospect you're speaking to is just overwhelmed and underwhelmed.
They're overwhelmed in the sense that there's just way too much data, too much stuff that they're not
sure what to do with their underwhelmed in the sense that if they're listen to three or four other new
business pitches, they can't really tell what's different about you, what's unique about you, and
most important, what you will do for them.
So this course is about helping you break out of that trap and how to give your prospects a clear cut
sense of exactly what your strengths are, what you're going to do for them, and why they should,
in fact, hire you or make a major purchase from you.
That's what this course is about.
So let's habia.

--- Achieve Your Goals in Every Pitch Presentation ---

First things first, what is the goal of this new business pitch presentation now?
Sounds like an obvious question.
The goal is to get the new business, but too many people lose sight of what the goal is when they are
in the process of creating the presentation and then delivering it.
Somehow people go from having a clear cut sense of the goal is to get the business to.
The goal is to educate this prospect on everything we could possibly do, everything we've ever done,
every strength we have in every success story.
Now, no one goes into it thinking that, but that's what it turns into.
And if that's what you do, your new business pitch is doomed to failure.
So it sounds childish.
It almost sounds immature.
But I want you to write down right now on your computer or a piece of paper goal of this presentation
to get new business to get that twenty five thousand dollar contract, to get whatever it is, the specific
thing you want, that new piece of business, that new contract, that new commitment, what is it you
want?
Please write it down.
That way we don't lose sight of it.

--- Figuring Out What Your Top Five Messages Are ---

Now that you figured out exactly what your goal is, let's figure out what will motivate the prospects
you're speaking to, to take the action you want to actually hire you or give you that contract.
So now let's step back.
Let's not try to write the whole speech.
Don't start with a PowerPoint.
You don't start building bullet points.
Let's just brainstorm.
I can be on a blank sheet of paper.
It can be on a computer screen.
But let's just throw out ideas.
Let's brainstorm on every possible thing you could say about your company, your business, your product,
your service that might motivate someone to buy from you.
Don't put an artificial cap on it and come up with fifty one hundred, two hundred ideas, put it all
down.
But now what I'm going to ask you to do is after you've come up with a full full laundry list, no holds
barred.
Now I want you to put them in priority and I want you to come up with your top five ideas, your top
five messages.
Now, why do I say five?
It's because I have trained people all over the world, more than ten thousand people, six continents
for thirty years.
And I always ask people, think of the best new business pitch you've ever heard, for that matter,
the best speech you've ever heard.
Tell me every idea, every message you remember from that speech, that presentation, that new business
pitch.
And all the years I've asked that question, I've never yet had anyone mentioned more than five ideas.
And that said, only once every six months, typically it's nothing or one idea or two ideas, sometimes
three or four.
So I operate under the premise that if you can actually communicate five ideas, you are going to be
a world class presenter.
Your new business pitch is going to be off the charts and you are going to be extraordinarily successful
presuming the messages you communicate actually resonate with your audience.
So this is for many people, the hardest part.
But if you don't do this, everything else we do in this whole course is kind of a waste of time.
You need a basic solid structure for your new business presentation.
And the solid structure is no more than five key ideas.
That's the foundation of your presentation, because people just aren't going to remember more than
that.
Maybe they should.
Maybe we're talking about an engagement with a major ad agency that's going to be hundreds of billions
of dollars in the next ten years.
They should, but they just don't.
So we might as well realize that because you can have the prettiest slides, have great hand gestures
and eye contact.
If you're trying to communicate one hundred and eighty nine things about your company or your product
or your service, none of the other stuff matters.
It's just not going to matter.
So that's why it's crucial for us to have this firm, firm architecture, these blueprints for your
business presentation, because imagine if you're building a house and you've got the most expensive
marble, the most wonderful redwood cedar, fabulous Tiffany Glass.
But if you had no plan for the House, if you just started hammering things, putting things up, mishmash,
it would be ugly chaos.
It wouldn't matter if you had a million dollars worth of building materials.
If you don't have a sound structure, it's not going to work.
So this is the most important part of what you're going to do.
So don't short change.
Don't try to do this in five minutes.
If you've got to take five hours, do it, but brainstorm on every message you want to convey and then
narrow it down to your top five.
And these had better be reasons that are keenly of interest to your prospects that will actually motivate
them to take the actions you want.
Please do it now.

--- Is it a Speech? A Video? A Sales Pitch? A Keynote? A Hybrid? Yes! ---

Hi, I'm TJ Walker, and for the next hour, I'm going to share with you the secrets of media training,
corporate media training, media training that goes on for high level politicians, CEOs, heads of
governments.
You're going to learn exactly the same secrets that they learn after they pay people like me lots of
money.
Specifically in this video.
I'm going to teach you the ins and outs of how to look comfortable, confident, relaxed any time you
have to be in front of one of these a video camera, because for most people, that gets the nervous.
They're not sure where to look.
I'm going to go through all the tips of how to look your best and really sound your best.
The next big skill is how do you shape a media message?
How do you go from a topic that's really complex where you could look at fifty one hundred things you
could say and really boil it down to your top three messages.
The third skill is how to answer questions in an interview.
Now, it's not what you think.
It's not ignore the question and tell them whatever you want to tell.
Now, that's the cartoonish version of media training in the real world.
You had to answer questions from reporters, but you have to do it in a focused, strategic way.
It's simply not the same as answering questions in the real world from colleagues, friends, family,
workers, co-workers, investors, customers or clients.
There's a different process.
I'm going to walk you through all the steps of that.
The final thing that I'm going to teach you is how to package your messages with sound bites.
Now, if you follow news and politics closely, you hear this term sound bites bandied about all the
time.
But what is it?
Most people can't actually define a sound bite or tell you how to take a message and turn it into a
sound bite.
I'm going to share with you my system on exactly how to convert any message point into a sound bite
so that, you know in advance exactly what quote is going to get in the final story.
Because here's the goal of really high level professional media training.
It's not just to be comfortable.
You can be comfortable with the media and frankly, be awful.
You can be awful.
And that means you don't get the messages you want in the store even though you feel comfortable.
So the goal is not just to feel comfortable.
The goal is not to control the interview.
The goal is not to make the reporter like you.
The goal in high quality media training is for you to be able to get the exact message and the exact
quote that you want into the final story.
That's what I teach my clients, and that's what you can learn right here.
Now, before we really hop in deeper, a brief, brief plug, if you want to know these skills in much
greater detail, I have an online course that gives you a lot of exercises to help really build these
skills so you can click below to find out more about the online training.
Plus, I am available for in-person workshops.
That's what I do with presidents of countries and prime ministers and Nobel Peace Prize winners and
CEOs all over the world.
So if you want information about that, it's in the link below.
Plus, you can always reach me at media training worldwide dot com and that's plus one two one two seven
six four four nine five five.
Now, let's hop right in to the fundamentals of how to look your best, because it frankly doesn't matter
if you have a great message, great answers, great sound bites.
If you look scared or nervous or uncomfortable, no one's going to remember anything you say.
So the first thing you've got to really keep in mind when you're on camera and these days it could be
the BBC, CNN or NBC, but it also could be a one person blogger who at the last second pulls out a
cell phone and ask if they can record a video of you so that video footage can go on their blog.
So you're going to see more and more opportunities to do video interviews, even if it's not a full
fledged broadcast TV news interview.
That's why it's critically important that you know how to look your best and sound your best.
Everyone says we'll just be natural, be natural.
Here's the problem with that advice.
The natural thing to do when there's a bright light in your face and a microphone stuck in your face
is this it's to freeze.
And I want to get my message just right.
My name is TJ Walker.
I'm president of Media Training Worldwide.
That's the natural thing to do.
Unfortunately, you look scared.
You look stiff because you are scared.
Because you are stiff, so the first big thing you have to focus on is just not getting stiff, not
stiffening up your face and your body, because that will make you look scared.
Let's step back a minute and start with the fundamentals before the interview starts.
You're asked to sit down.
You go to a studio and the reporter comes to you.
People say, well, be comfortable, be relaxed, sit back.
If you sit back on TV, your double chin will show up.
You'll look fatter than you are, even if you're not fat.
You've heard the expression the camera puts 20 pounds on you.
Well, it does.
If you sit back, that's always the least flattering situation.
If you're in a couch or a chair that leans back, don't lean back.
Now, the next thing people do is something like this.
They sit up perfectly straight.
Hi, my name is TJ Walker.
I help people look relaxed and comfortable on TV.
Is that credible?
I don't think so.
I look literally stiff, scared by having the so-called perfect posture on TV.
To look your best, you need to hold yourself up and lean forward about 15 degrees.
Now you don't see a double chin.
Now the camera is focused more on my face than my body.
That's what you want.
Now, let me turn to the side.
It's not a particularly natural looking pose if I'm sitting or standing, but you will come across much
more natural when you are on camera.
So that's why it's important to sit that way.
Now, your face and your eyes are very important on camera because again, you can have a great message
if you're doing things like this.
Hi.
Yes.
At the TJ Walker Investment Fund, if you send your kids college education money to us in the Cayman
Islands, I'll double your money every three months.
Is that believable?
I look literally shifty.
I'd nobody trust anyone shifty eyed.
So my advice is, when you're being interviewed by a reporter, look at the reporter.
Don't look at the camera now.
I have no reporter here.
I'm just talking to you.
If there's no reporter around or if you're being interviewed through an earpiece remotely, someone
is interviewing you from another city, well, then you would look right at the camera.
But what you don't want to do is sort of be interviewed by a reporter and play to the camera.
Hi, Bill.
I'm glad you asked me that question.
Are you playing to the camera now?
It looks awful.
Just look at the human being.
You have a lifetime of experience looking at human beings.
When you talk to them, you have very little experience talking to human being, listening to them and
ignoring them and staring at a piece of machinery across the room.
So my advice, keep it simple and just look at the reporter.
There's no reporter then at the camera.
Now, here's another problem people often hear.
That's a good question.
I'm really glad you asked me that, Sam.
Yes.
Have I ever trained CIOs see what I'm doing?
My eyes are going up now.
It's natural when someone ask you a question and you're thinking for your eyes to go up over.
But on video, it looks weird.
It kind of looks like, I don't know, let me just make up stuff.
So my advice, try to look at the reporter or the camera as much as possible.
If you have to look away occasionally look down, it'll be much less noticeable.
You'll look thoughtful if you look up.
It's kind of like, I don't know what to say.
Something else that is really noticeable on camera that's just different from being in person or giving
a speech or presentation.
It's this most of us, when we're listening to someone talk, her face goes blank.
But on TV, if you have a blank look, it looks like this.
Not very impressive, is it looks like a bored, boring about to die flat, so in order to look natural
a lot to look your best on video, I recommend you have a slight smile on your face, not a gigantic
TV feature.
Smile just a little bit.
You don't even have to show teeth.
Just a little bit of a smile.
Here's the thing.
Even when you're talking about a crisis, even when you're talking about bad news, it won't look like
you're smiling.
You'll simply look a little more relaxed, a little more comfortable and a little more confident.
Regardless of the topic, it's always good to look relaxed, comfortable and confident.
Now, let's talk about makeup.
Most men like to wear makeup.
I don't wear makeup.
We need that for.
Here's the thing.
Everybody on TV is wearing makeup.
I'm wearing makeup right now.
It's probably not noticeable to you, but here's all you need.
And here's all I typically use.
Just a simple powder.
And this is a it's called Mosaic.
It just has a whole lot of different colors of powder.
I do this and this takes the shine off my forehead, takes the shine off my nose, and I already have
someone.
So it's not going to be that noticeable.
It also minimizes some of the five o'clock shadow.
And sorry, this is overly personal here, but since you can see I don't have a lot of hair in my case,
I'll actually put it on the top of my head, not because it's going to make me look like I have a beautiful
head of hair, but it will reduce the shine, the reflection on the top of my head.
And that way people can just focus on what I'm saying with fewer distractions.
Now, let's put some of these things together.
So I'm going to smile.
Little eyes aren't darting.
Looking forward.
Tell me how this looks.
Hi, I'm T.J. Walker.
At Media Training World Wide, we coach CEOs and professionals, leaders, authors, experts on how
to communicate to the world.
What's wrong with that?
Didn't seem very convincing, did it?
Here's the problem.
I was completely stiff.
Nothing was moving except my lips.
And that makes someone look scared.
It makes them sound and look like a robot.
I wasn't even trying to make my voice monotone, but by freezing my body, it basically forced my voice
into this monotone.
Sounded like I was reading something even though I wasn't.
So let's change and tell me what's different here.
Hi, I'm TJ Walker and media training worldwide.
We help executives communicate more effectively, regardless of the medium.
What was different that time?
All I did was move my head.
All of us move our head all the time when we talk and we're comfortable.
So let's add another element.
Hi, I'm TJ Walker at Media Training World Worldwide.
We help executives communicate effectively, regardless of the medium.
What was different that time?
Well, it was subtle, but I was moving my body, not jerking around, not jumping up and dancing,
but from the waist up, moving around.
Let's add another element.
Hi, I'm TJ Walker in media training worldwide.
What do we do?
We help executives all over the world take a message and then communicate it throughout every single
media outlet.
What was different that time?
He's the number one myth out there when it comes to public speaking and speaking to the media.
Somehow you need to control your hands, control your hands.
Like these things are going to just strangle yourself.
Now, complete, utter nonsense.
The more confident the speaker, the more comfortable the speaker in general, the more often you see
their hands move.
I've worked with clients from six continents all over the world, all kinds of languages, all sorts
of cultures.
When people are comfortable and they're talking, their hands move so they can do this or this or something
like that.
That's what's distracting.
That's what makes you appear to be less than comfortable.
Now, do you have to move your hands if you're going to be on TV or on the.
No, but the second you freeze your hands or hold pen or do something like that or knock things over,
it makes you look nervous and it distracts the audience.
So my recommendation.
Move your hands now.
A few tips for seated interviews.
The best thing is don't lean in the back of the seat.
I'm standing at the moment, but if I were seated, I would not be leaning.
The back of the seat, I wouldn't lean on the armrests on either side because that would immobilize
me and I wouldn't lean on a table in front of me.
It's fine to have your hands on a table when you're listening to someone, but if you're talking, your
hands should be moving.
That's the best way.
Few items on clothing.
I'm not trying to make everyone fit in a little box and make everybody sound the same.
Look, this is my advice to you when it comes to how you dress for TV is just make sure that what you're
wearing is consistent with what you're about and that you don't confuse people and that you don't distract
people.
I am primarily a corporate media trainer.
I work with politicians, authors, experts and others, but most of my clients work for big corporations.
So I'm wearing a somewhat traditional suit and tie in a way that makes my customers feel like he's one
of us.
Also note, a solid light blue shirt doesn't have to be light blue.
The pinstripes on my suit are very subtle, so they don't jump around and the tie is solid.
These are not particularly interesting looking clothes.
That's the point.
I want you to focus on what I'm saying and what I am wearing.
That's what's really most significant.
If you are an artist, then by all means wear something really colorful that draws people in and helps
cement your reputation as someone different and artistic.
But if you're in financial services or a CEO or CFO of a major corporation and energy services, for
example, you probably don't want people focused on what you're wearing.
And that's why I would recommend wear solids, avoid black.
Black is too dark.
It's too hard to light actually makes you look heavier in person than on TV than in person, unlike
how black and have a slimming effect in person because your arms blend together, it can blend in with
the chair, the background.
So I would avoid black, I would also avoid white.
The problem with white becomes the brightest thing on the screen, makes it harder to light your face.
And I want the focus to be on you, not what you're wearing or the white shirt.
I'd also avoid stripes.
They can jump around plaids.
Anything that has a lot of complexity into it can be a problem.
It might look great on someone's gigantic High-Definition TV, but if they're watching you on YouTube
or on your website, on their cell phone, it could be fuzzy.
So that's really the problem with that.
So these are the basics of how to look your best on camera.
Again, just very, very briefly, slight plug if you want exercises on how to do this, more feedback
and the ability to ask me questions and get personalized responses, click below and you can sign up
for my online course on media training and we can go much more in depth and you can have the exercises
you need to build this skill.
Or you can always call me and we can have a private workshop typically one day long, often two days
long, where I get you on camera and we practice these things again and again and again.
And I can help you really look your best so that you don't have any awkward moments.
Speaking of which.
Some of you may remember a few years back, a well-known politician was giving a major speech on TV
and then he sort of lunged awkwardly for his bottle of water, drank it, put it back.
And the thing was so memorable because he looked like a little boy who was caught stealing a cookie.
There's nothing wrong with doing what I just did.
Famous comedians do it, some Broadway stars do it, just don't act embarrassed, don't act rushed,
don't act ashamed, and typically people won't remember it.
You want people to remember your messages, not anything you're doing in a really distracting way.
OK, now part two, how do you frame a message for a media interview?
My recommendation to all of my clients is, hey, the reporter gets to pick the topic, but you get
to pick what you think is most important.
I believe any time you go into a media interview, you should have written down whether it's on your
cell phone or a piece of paper, three messages.
Each message should be no more than 10 words.
That's 30 words.
It should be that focused.
Each one should have a subject, a verb, an object.
It's not three main themes and three sub points beneath each one.
Know a lot of people have difficulty with this because they are so immersed in all the details, all
the minutia of their subject matter that they think in terms of whole paragraphs, whole pages, entire
press releases that just doesn't work for an interview.
Here's something else I'd ask you to think about before you go into a media interview.
If you could write the story any way you want for the first paragraph, the first three sentences,
what would it be?
You need to have that level of clarity.
If NBC came to you and said, we're going to give you a free public service announcement, TV ad 30
seconds long to say whatever you want on this subject, what would it be?
I'm pretty sure you'd figure out how to boil your message down to 30 seconds if you were given millions
of dollars worth of advertising.
So that's the challenge now.
Some people bristle at this and say, well, I don't want to dumb it down.
That's not intellectually honest.
That's the coward's way out.
I'm sorry.
Mark Twain once said to a friend, I'm sorry.
I wrote you a long letter.
I didn't have time to write you a short letter.
It actually takes more intellect, more time, more thought to write a short letter than a long letter.
It takes more time to boil your messages down to three than it does to just go into an interview.
Knowing everything with 50 messages or thinking, well, this questions asked.
I'll say these ten things.
And if this question is asked, I'll say these 10 things, not the way to do it.
So I want give you some more tips on how to come up with your message for immediate review before you
go into the interview.
For starters, you need to brainstorm on messages that answer the most obvious questions.
Coming up, the who, what, when, where, why?
As it relates to your topic, that's the first step.
Next, you need to ask yourself what's important to me.
What is it about this topic that I want the world to know?
Again, if I were given a free ad, what would I say to people?
Right.
All those messages down next.
I want you to think about the reporter.
What's interesting to the reporter that ideally it overlaps with some of the things you care about,
but it might not write down every single idea you think would be of interest to the reporter.
There's another constituency we have to think about, and that is the audience of that media outlet.
I need you to ask yourself, what will the readers, viewers, listeners of this media outlet really
care about?
Right.
All those messages down and then it's very helpful for people is to create a Venn diagram on a whiteboard,
on a white chart, put all of the messages you care about in one circle, all of the messages the reporter
cares about, see where the overlap is.
And then finally, the messages of interest to the public, the readers, viewers.
And you have to eliminate any messages that aren't right in the center of that.
So, for example, if you are an energy company and there's an explosion at your plant and people are
missing and three are injured, you might want to tell people safety is our number one concern.
I understand that that may be a message that's important to you.
But I can tell you right now there is no reporter in the world who's putting together a story, who
is going to quote you saying safety is your number one concern when there's a fire and explosion missing.
But that's not interesting to the reporter.
They want to know, how are you going to stop this fire?
The public wants to know, is my aunt or uncle one of the ones missing?
There's so many things.
The people want to know the fact that you have a general platitude of safety is our number one concern
is a horrible message.
Don't say it's perfectly fine message for a website, for a press release, for your own internal videos.
But that's one of the challenges that so many people grapple with when they're coming up with their
messages as they they stick to generic, self-serving messages that are not of interest to the public
and to the media.
You've got to eliminate anything that isn't in the center of that Venn diagram.
Then you've got to narrow it down to the top three.
And you've got to ask yourself each message, if I could only get quoted on one message in the entire
story, would I be happy with this one?
If the answer is no, chances are you don't really have a good message if any of your messages are dependent
on order or being second with the first one doing is your premise.
If it has complexity that requires context in a certain way, that means it's a horrible message.
Every single message point needs to stand on its own.
It needs to be understood on its own.
They can't stand on its own.
It is by definition an awful message point.
Get rid of it.
Now, the hard part for many people is when a message point covers, say, two of these categories.
Let me give you an example.
Many years ago, 30 years ago, when I first got into the media training game, I worked with a number
of politicians running for public office, running for Congress, and they ran on the platform.
I will not take PAC money.
I will not take special interest PAC money.
This was a message that was really important to them.
They cared about it passionately.
So it's in that check out of the box or the circle for.
Interesting to them, political reporters found this fascinating.
It was clearly in that part of the circle where reporters thought, this is interesting.
And you know what?
These politicians had story after story, column after column written about the fact that they weren't
taking PAC money and their horrible opponents were taking PAC money.
Sounds like a great media issue, right?
Only one problem was that final circle down here, messages of interest to the readers, viewers, listeners
of these media outlets.
In this case, it was the general public voters.
One problem with this message, voters didn't know what PAC money was.
They didn't care what PAC money was.
They didn't find the message interesting.
Guess what happened to all of those candidates?
That's right.
Every single one of them lost.
So it's not enough to have a message that's important to you.
It's not enough to have a message of interest to the reporters.
It has to be of interest to the audience.
You care about who is looking at that media outlet.
So that's what's involved with coming up with a media message.
So please take that into mind.
It's not about simply having a smart answer for every question.
That's not the drill.
You can have a great answer for every question reporter ask and never get quoted or never get quoted
on anything that's important to you.
So now let's go to the next point.
We've covered how to look your best on TV.
We've covered how to shape a media message.
Now we've got to talk about how to answer questions.
And this is one of these areas that people think they know what it is, oh, just ignore the question
and say which one.
Now, that's the cartoonish version of media training.
There was a politician back in the nineties who ran for president, a magazine publisher.
And no matter what somebody asked him, sir, what's your position on gun control?
What's your position on school prayer?
He would answer my position on school prayer.
Is that the first thing I'll do as president is abolish the IRS.
My position on gun control is the first thing I'll do as president is abolish the IRS.
Well, he had a message.
He stuck to his message, but he's so completely ignored the questions from the reporters that they
hated him.
They thought he was a moron.
And they went out of their way in every story to remind people that this was just a rich man's son who
flunked eighth grade and was running a vanity campaign.
So, no, it's not about ignoring the question and saying what you want.
That's not it at all.
There's a very, very particular strategy you must follow when you're answering questions.
So, for starters, sometimes a reporter may ask you two or three or four questions, don't try to be
the smart college professor and say, well, let me take your fourth question first and your third question
second.
Now, also, don't pick the most interesting question, the most intellectually challenging.
This isn't about you.
This is about the audience, how you're going to help them.
So my recommendation pick, the one question that helps you get back to your message points as quickly
as possible.
You're not telling the reporter, I'm not going to answer your other questions.
You're not saying that they can ask again.
But if you answered even one of the four questions, nobody can accuse you of dodging questions.
So another big tip, critically important for any kind of interview you do over the telephone, have
a cheat sheet, have all your notes right in front of you, have your message points in front of you,
have your eyes staring at your messages.
Sounds obvious.
Nobody ever does it.
People feel this need to continue doing email and handling text messages, looking at their phone while
doing an interview, continuing to read different Web pages.
What comes out of your mouth is quite often a function of what goes in your eyes.
So if you want to have maximum control over the outcomes in the interview, you're far better off with
your eyes focused on your message boards.
Literally stare at them.
Now, if you're doing a TV interview, I wouldn't be holding a sheet of paper in front of your face
while doing a TV interview, but you should be looking at it right before the interview starts.
If you're driving to the TV station or the press conference or you're in the makeup room, you should
be staring at your message boards.
Make it easy for yourself.
The next thing it's critically important when you're answering questions, don't repeat the negatives
in the question.
This is tripped up.
A lot of very successful CEOs and politicians know the president is not a crook.
I am not a crook.
Richard Nixon repeating negatives and negative premises.
Any time you're rebutting a negative premise in a media interview and it's edited, you're asking for
trouble because only the negative premise might get in the story.
Tony Hayward, the former CEO of BP during the Gulf spill, was asked, are you going to make good on
all the legal claims against you, all the lawsuits?
He said, of course, we want to help people.
We want to help the economy.
We want to help entrepreneurs who have been harmed in any way.
Everything you said was great.
No one would object to it.
Everything was fine.
Then the question was, yeah, but what about the frivolous lawsuits?
And he said, well, hey, it's America.
Of course there be frivolous lawsuits, but I just want to stress we want to have fun for the next ten
minutes.
All great content, all great messages.
What was the only thing quoted?
Hey, it's America.
Of course there'll be frivolous lawsuits.
He repeated the negative ad that was quoted.
I'll tell you in the next section exactly why it was quoted and how you can control against that.
So please do not repeat the negative questions or the negative assumptions when you're answering.
There is one answer that's quite often a great answer and it's often over.
If you're asked a question and you don't know the answer to it, just state, I don't know, don't act
embarrassed, don't get flustered, don't have your face, get red.
Don't apologize, but simply say, I don't know.
What I do know is and then talk about something that is relevant to the question that takes you close
to your message.
That's the real key.
Now, I'm not suggesting that you lie, and just because it's a topic you're not interested in talking
about saying I don't know if you really do know, but if a reporter asked you to predict the future
and you don't know the future, there's nothing wrong with saying I don't know.
And then bridging to something that is relevant.
That way, the reporter doesn't get flustered.
You can't claim she can't claim that you didn't answer.
She did answer that.
I don't know.
The reporter can even write that.
But they're unlikely to quote you on that unless it's something really obvious.
If you're running for president of the United States and they say, can you please name the prime minister
of Great Britain and you can't name it.
Well, yes.
Then you say, I don't know, that could be quoted, but most of the time it's a very safe answer.
OK, I've covered a bunch of basics for how to answer your questions in interviews.
Now, when it comes to the two most important tips, this next tip is you have to rewrite questions
when you hear them to make that easier for you.
If you hear a tough question, I mean, question, hostile question, all that means is you have not
done your job yet.
This is not the same thing as dodging questions, avoiding questions, but it is a subtle art.
Here is an art form to rewriting the questions to make it easier for you in a way that still satisfies
the reporter and doesn't give the reporter anything, any ammunition to quote you in a negative way.
So, for example, oftentimes when I go to foreign countries and I'm training a prime minister or a
top political leader, the political reporters in that country will come to me and say, T.J., don't
you feel guilty and ashamed about teaching people how to lie and spin and obfuscate?
Now, that sounds like a tough question, right?
How do I answer that?
I don't teach people to lie, but I don't want to say I don't teach people to lie, because that kind
of sounds like what a professional lying teacher would say.
I don't feel guilty about my profession, but I don't want to say I don't feel guilty about my profession,
because that's kind of one of those quotes you see in profiles of exotic dancers and people in other
embarrassing professions, or at least to some embarrassing.
I don't want to be associated with that.
But how do I answer that?
Because I do want to answer the question.
I can't answer the question until I rewrite the question.
So, again, the question was, T.J., don't you feel guilty and ashamed about being in a profession
that teaches people to lie?
I don't agree with the premise of lying, so I'm not going to deal with that part.
I don't agree with the premise of feeling embarrassed, so I'm not going to deal with that part.
So I had to keep backing up, looking at this question, holding it up to the light.
What is this reporter really asking me?
How do you instead of do you feel embarrassed?
It's how do you feel?
I'm simply going to rewrite the question to T.J. How do you feel about being in your profession now?
I've neutralized the question.
I've taken all the negativity out of it.
I've taken all the negative assumptions.
It's still essentially the same question.
I just stripped it of all of its negative assumptions and I've rewritten it to T.J..
How do you feel about being in your profession?
Well, now it's easy to answer.
I feel great to be in a profession where I teach leaders communicate more effectively to the rest of
the world.
Now, with the reporter, love that answer.
Not necessarily.
But is there any part of that message that answer a reporter could use to make me look negative, foolish,
defensive, stupid?
No.
Can the reporter write or state that I refuse to comment?
No.
Can't do that either.
That's why it protects me.
Now, the final big tip.
You really need to know when you're answering questions in an interview.
And let me confess right up front.
It feels awkward.
It feels strange.
It feels weird.
But here's the tip.
You're asked a question.
You need to answer it briefly at some level, and then you need to hit one of your message points and
the second one and the third one.
You need to hit all three message points in every answer or at least try to.
I don't mean in the same order.
I don't mean word for word the same.
But you do need to try to hit all three, get different order, different levels of abstraction, different
examples, different case studies.
But thematically, you need to try to hit all three.
But the report will think I'm crazy.
That's boring.
Not if you do it well and you mix it up with different examples, different case studies, different
wording.
If you say it word for word, the same way like a broken record, then it's going to sound annoying
and the is going to find it obnoxious.
This is hard to do, but it is a great way of increasing the odds that the message you want gets into
the final story.
Let's not lose sight of what the ultimate goal is.
The ultimate goal is for you to get the message you want in the final story.
So if all you do is answer the reporter's questions and every single answer, you have a bunch of different
message points.
Well, then what's important to you is going to get lost, because at the end of the interview, there's
going to be seventy five different messages for the for the reporter to choose from.
It's going to be lost.
So that's what's critically important, is to bridge back again and again and again to all of your three
messages repeatedly.
Now, for those of you who do sign up for my course, you'll have exercises where you'll actually grade
your own answers.
Here's a little grid.
Did you hit your message point?
Did you answer the question?
Did you get one, two, three message points?
So, again, just briefly, if you are interested in going from an intellectual understanding, which
I hope I'm giving you here to an actual skill, then I would suggest you sign up for either an online
media training course, the information is below, or give us a call and schedule an in-person media
training workshop.
Information is below.
Plus you can always reach me at.
Media training, world wide dotcom, that's three W's media training worldwide dotcom, or just pick
up the phone and call me from anywhere in the world.
Plus one, two, one two seven six four four nine five five.
Bites, I've got good news and I got bad news for you, the good news is if you've been following me
so far, you actually know a lot about how to look your best on camera.
That's great.
You know how to shape a message.
That's great.
You know how to deliver a message.
That's fantastic.
And you've got tips on how to answer questions in an interview.
All wonderful.
All fantastic.
But here's the problem.
You can do that all day long and never get quoted.
All we've really done so far is talk about what we want, what we like, what we need.
We haven't really talked about what reporters need.
And reporters, other than those doing live shows, need sound bites.
They need quotes for newspaper stories, text stories, Web page stories.
They need sound bites for any audio or video, whether it's a television broadcast or a radio podcast.
And here's the problem.
You can talk to a reporter for ten minutes and have a thousand words come out of your mouth and only
eight words get into the final story.
Nine hundred and ninety two words are edited away.
So how do you know in advance what those eight words are going to be?
Or if you have two or three quotes, one of those twenty four words going to be that you get into the
final story.
That's what I'm going to teach you right here.
So please take careful notes, because this is what you don't find in any public relations handbook.
You don't find it in most media training books either.
But I'm going to walk you through steps, because what I have found is that every single quote in newspapers,
television, broadcast radio broadcast, the subject matter may be different, but the actual sentence
structure of what gets quoted is remarkably consistent.
It all comes down to ten very specific speech patterns.
Before we go into that, let's step back for a minute and ask yourself, what's a reporter doing when
they quote us?
What they're trying to do is make the story more interesting, more understandable, more memorable,
more helpful to their audience.
That's what it is.
They don't need you just for the facts.
They can write the facts in the story.
The reporter can stand up and state the facts.
What they need from you is some perspective on the facts and opinion on the facts to give shape to the
story, something that the reporter can't do individually.
Oftentimes, I'll ask my clients, why do you think a reporter quoted you this way or why do you think
any reporter uses a quote?
And quite often my clients will say, well, T.J., that's just backing up the opinion of the reporter.
They're just looking for someone to say something they felt anyway.
And I say, really?
So aren't liberal reporters for The New York Times or NBC News quote Ann Coulter saying Obama is the
devil.
That's because that's what they really believe.
No, that doesn't make sense at all.
Ann Coulter, for those of you not familiar, is a conservative commentator who is widely quoted all
over the time, primarily because she has soundbites that are filled with attacks, absolutes and humor.
And reporters and editors in all the American media, quote, are constantly not because they agree
necessarily with anything she says, but they see the value of the soundbite and they see soundbites
coming out of her mouth constantly.
And she gets a tremendous amount of publicity.
And that benefits her because all of her books then go on to become New York Times best sellers.
So let's pull back the curtain and let me walk you through exactly what it takes to turn your messages
into soundbites.
For starters, any bold action oriented words?
If you say I'm going to tear down this wall, as Reagan did, or I'm going to build up this wall, this
massive wall is Trump might say those are bold, action oriented words.
Action is quotable.
Boldness makes it quotable.
So that's the first one.
The next thing, emotion.
Reporters are supposed to be neutral.
They're supposed to be objective.
They can't talk about their emotions.
But if you talk about angry, you are upset.
You are disappointed, bummed out.
Ecstatic reporters look like that because it brings in a human element to the story.
That's what they're looking for.
The next element, examples, any time you can give a specific example, this person, this client yourself,
it takes the message from something abstract and allows people to see it, touch it, taste it, feel
it.
So that is the next one.
The next element.
And let me be cautious here.
I'm not advocating that you use any of these sound bite elements.
What I'm telling you is if they do come out of your mouth, you will be quoted.
The absolute easiest way to get quoted is the way I'm about to discuss with you.
And that sound bite method is from the attack.
Any time you attack someone, you're likely to get quoted talk show host notice.
That's why talk show hosts are always attacking people.
Donald Trump knows this.
That's why he's always attacking people.
Am I telling you to run around attacking your competitors, your opponents, other people you compete
with?
Know, what I am saying is if you attack, you will be quoted.
So you have to be very sparing with this.
Now, it applies not to just flamboyant political figures.
If you said something like, well, initially we were slow to realize how bad the recession was going
to be, but come 2010, we really re geared.
And then for the next half hour, I say all these great things about my business.
Guess what the only quote might be.
Initially, we were slow to realize how bad the recession was.
That's an attack.
It's not a mean attack.
It's not a vicious attack.
But I attacked myself.
I take my own company that could be quoted.
So please keep this in mind.
You've got to be very careful about attacks.
The next sound bite element, absolutes.
Any time you can say always must, never has to.
It creates a certainty to it.
People are craving certainty.
Reporters can't state it.
It seems biased, but they love quoting experts, leaders, political candidates, business executives
stating things with absolute next element clichés.
We're all taught in high school class not to write cliches.
It's a sign of sloppy, lazy writing.
Guess what?
You're not the writer of this story.
Journalists might not like to write cliches themselves, but they love quoting spokespersons using cliches.
So if you have a cliche that is on your message, that's your goal.
Your goal is not to win writing awards.
If you're being interviewed, your goal is to get the message you want into the final story.
This is one of these differences between public speaking versus speaking to the media.
You're giving a speech.
If you just repeat your same three messages constantly and you have a bunch of cliches come out of your
mouth, people will think you're an idiot.
But speaking to the media for an edited interview is not the same thing.
So cliches can be extremely helpful in getting you quoted.
Again, I'm not telling you you have to use cliches, but if a cliche does come out of your mouth,
there's a good chance it will be quoted.
The next element, humor.
Everybody loves a good laugh.
Everybody loves a chuckle.
So if you can use humor and it is on your message and you're happy with it, then by all means use it.
But be very careful.
So much of humor is a subtle attack on someone and it might work if people can see a smile on your face
and a twinkle in your eye.
But if they're reading it the next day and text, it could just make you look mean spirited.
So be very, very careful about using humor.
I'm not saying be humorless, but it can often boomerang back and hurt you.
The next sound bite element.
Rhetorical questions simply ask put a question mark at the end of your message.
But those of you who follow politics for a long time may remember Ronald Reagan in 1980.
Are you better off now than you were four years ago?
Basic rhetorical question.
Just restating his message, which is economically, things are worse than four years ago.
That's a bland, straightforward message.
The rhetorical question made it quotable reporters here that they'll type it up.
The next element analogy, reporters are trying to make the story understandable, more interesting,
if you can.
See it, you can say this new thing is like this old thing, I already know, it increases the odds
that it will be quoted.
Reporters love analogies.
They will quote you using analogies.
The final sound element, pop culture references.
If you tie anything you do in with somebody already well-known, well-known sports figure, political
figure, movie action hero, anything that's already well known will increase your odds of being quoted.
So those are the 10 sound byte elements.
If you want more information on that.
My book, Media Training A to Z is available as a part of the online media training course, as I and
I've tried to be very light here on the promotions because I'm trying to get information that's really
useful to you if you have absolutely no budget.
But if you do want to take it to the next level and go deeper in your learning and build a new skill,
I would recommend you check out below the online media training school or give us a call and schedule
an in-person media training workshop.
Now, I go to my clients all over the world, whether it's Dubai or Mumbai or Paris or they come to
me in New York either way, or we do training through live Skype video or the online courses on demand,
which are very, very affordable.
So please check out the link or you can always just go to media training worldwide dot com for more
information.
I do want to summarize here what I hope you've taken away and also to realize with every interview you
do, there's five possible outcomes.
Number one, you do the interview, you get no quote at all, lost opportunity.
You missed an opportunity to help yourself, but you didn't hurt yourself.
The second option is you're quoted and you said something so ridiculously racist, sexist, foolish.
You lose your job and you humiliate.
It doesn't happen that often, but it does happen to people.
The third option is that you're quoted and it's on the message you hoped for that you plan and pretty
good.
That's good.
There's another option.
You get quoted nothing to do with anything that was important to you, but they spell your name right.
No one's upset.
But there is a fifth option.
The fifth option is you got quoted.
It's the message you decided you wanted in advance.
And it's the exact word for word quote you decided you wanted in advance.
If you follow the lessons that I've described here in this video for the past hour, you'll have the
tools to get that fifth option every time.
And I do believe that you should never go into an interview unless you have your three messages, three
to six sound for each one written down on a single sheet of paper and go into the interview with that
specific goal.
Here's the exact message I want.
Here's the exact word for word, quote I want to see in this story.
If you follow the techniques that I've outlined for you, you're going to get the exact message and
the exact quote you want, not one hundred percent of the time, but you'll get it about ninety five
percent of the time.
So I wish you luck with all of your opportunities in the future.
I appreciate those of you who stayed with me till the end.
And again, if I can ever help you, please call me at two one two seven six four four nine five five.
I'm TJ Walker for Media Training World Wide.

--- Here Is Another Example of a Long-Form Online Public Speaking ---

A crisis has hit your organization.
How exactly do you respond?
How do you communicate to the world, your stakeholders, your customers?
It's crisis communications time.
I am Walker.
This video is going to walk you through all the fundamentals you need to know about crisis communications,
exactly what it is, how to respond, how to go about the process of communicating effectively to the
world during a time of crisis for your organization.
So for starters, let's define what is a crisis.
A crisis is something that's happened that is considered of such importance that it could ruin your
reputation, your organization's reputation.
It's something that could cause damage to you, not just for one day or a minor little blip, but something
that could stain your reputation so that you might lose customers.
Investors might shy away.
The public might turn against you, regulators might turn against you.
It's that sort of thing you need to be prepared for.
It can happen to any organization, a big oil company or a one person consultancy.
So everyone needs to be prepared for a crisis at some point and specifically how to communicate it to
the world.
By the way, if you want even more information on how to communicate effectively to the news media during
a crisis at absolutely no charge to you, you can get a free online media training course by clicking
on the link below or by going to media training worldwide dotcom and signing up for the free media training
course, which will help you prepare for media interviews, press conferences during a time of crisis.
So back to what is an actual crisis and why it's so important.
Well, for example, BP, the huge international oil concern, did not respond very well to its crisis
when it had the leak in the Gulf.
And because of poor communication, because of consistent bad press conferences by their CEO, their
market capitalization lost 30 billion dollars.
So when people tell you, why does it really matter?
No one pays attention.
Wrong, 30 billion dollars.
Volkswagen had a major crisis in its reputation when it was revealed that it was cheating on emissions
standards.
Its market capitalization went down 30 billion dollars, 30 percent of its overall market cap vaporized
in just a short period of time.
So that is why it is important to have a plan for when crisis happens.
Nobody's perfect, no organization is perfect.
No one can control all events at all times.
But you can control how you respond to a crisis.
And that is what's essential about crisis communications.
For starters, there's the timing.
Now, many decades ago, when Tylenol had its scandal, it got all sorts of praise for how it reacted
to the the contamination of its Tylenol products.
But people don't realize it took them 24 hours to ever respond to the news media.
But it was a slower time.
News cycles were much slower back then.
Right now, it's instant.
If there's a crisis that affects your organization, people are talking about it in Twitter, on Facebook,
every other social media platform.
So you've got to respond instantly and if not instantly, certainly within the hour.
So, so much of crisis communication has to do with not coming up with the perfect answer that everyone
has studied and thought about and reflected upon for three weeks.
But what is the best answer you can come up with right now for reporters and the public wanting to know
what is happening right now?
You have to have a nimbleness to you if you're going to be effective.
Otherwise, all of your detractors are going to define you.
Your enemies are going to detract.
You are going to attack you.
And to detract from your overall reputation and image, other people will define you.
If there is a crisis that affects your organization, there's going to be a vacuum and everyone is going
to weigh in.
You had better be the leading voice talking about what you and your organization are doing.
So for starters, when a crisis happens, it's critical that you very quickly establish what are the
facts as you know them.
Then what is it that you are actively doing to make the situation better?
And of course, if anyone has been killed or injured, harmed, it's important to express sympathy for
those people, not necessarily blame or culpability, but sympathy for those people and some condolences,
if appropriate, and what you're doing for them.
So too often when there's a crisis, people hunker down, they get a bunker mentality, and their attorneys
tell them, don't say anything, don't say anything.
And you hide from the media absolute worst possible response.
When you hide, you are looking guilty.
People will assume you're guilty, guilty people, high, innocent people are transparent and they answer
questions.
So when a crisis hits your organization, for starters, you've got to figure out what are the three
things that you want the public to know?
What happened?
What are you doing to make the situation better?
Are you investigating?
Have you shut down a plant, have you evacuated the area?
You can always talk in a positive, proactive way about what you are doing.
Now, there are many times when you simply don't know, and the only thing you can do is let people
know you have alerted the local fire department, state regulators, federal officials who regulate
what it is you do.
But it's important that people see you, that they see you're accountable, that you're answering questions
that you're not hiding.
Quite often that is more important.
Then getting a perfect, perfect, perfect message.
No, you don't want bad messages.
But you do want people to know that you're there, your front, your center.
You're accountable and you will answer all questions, so when you're coming up with your messages,
you really, really need to have something short, simple, focused that is the best you can do right
now.
If there's an explosion at your factory at 9:00 a.m. and it's now nine forty five a.m., you don't have
to know every fact.
You don't have to speculate on the cause.
You don't have to talk about how this will affect your stock price.
That would be the worst thing to do.
Then instead stick to exactly what has happened, what you are doing.
At forty five minutes into the crisis, the main focus may be evacuating the town, how people can get
out of town quickly and all the authorities you have notified and other safety precautions, if it's
two weeks later, you're going to have a completely different message.
What's consistent, though, is that you, someone from your organization, if you're a big publicly
traded company, it had better be your CEO is on the ground being accessible, answering reporters questions
and letting the public know exactly what's going on.
It's the secrecy that gets us into trouble because people not only can assume the worst, they will
assume the worst.
So it's critical that you very quickly come up with a message.
By all means, listen to your lawyers, but don't let lawyers.
Completely decide your communication strategy, let's put it this way.
Anyone who lets their lawyers define their public relations strategy, in my view, is as smart as someone
who is in front of a judge and jury on murder charges and decides to let their PR person lead their
legal case and represent them in a court of law.
Obviously, you would consider that person a full.
Similarly, anyone who lets their lawyers define their messaging, in my view, is equally awful, lawyers
have been trained to understand the law and to keep you out of prison.
By all means, listen to your lawyers during a time of crisis, you don't want to say something that
is going to set you up for a lawsuit or penalty penalties that will put you in prison or bankrupt your
company.
But remember this.
Lawyers are trained to mitigate risk, to use a favorite legal term, mitigate, they want to lessen
your risk, your legal risk.
So if you just say no comment and a lawyer's worldview quite often, hey, that's minimizing risk.
I didn't say anything that will come back to haunt me in a court of law.
But there's another court you have to worry about.
The court of public opinion.
So corporations that exclusively follow the dictates of their lawyers quite often may find themselves
in a situation where they've got no legal problems, but the public, their customers, their clients
have such a low opinion of them that nobody wants to do business with their revenues fall to zero and
they've gone bankrupt.
The lawyer can say, hey, did my job.
Kept you out of prison?
Well, what good does that do if you're out of business?
So is the main spokesperson for a company CEO.
If you're a large public company, your job is to certainly take into consideration the legal concerns.
But you have to look at the big picture and the big picture is all of your stakeholders, it's not just
the legal system, it is the public.
Regulators, customers, clients, investors, your own employees, you have to take into consideration
the immediate concerns of all of those people and you have to address them.
You have to make them feel better about the situation.
You have to make them feel that, OK, it's not a great situation, but these people are trying to do
the best they can.
They're trying to be transparent.
They're not hiding anything and they're trying to make things better.
That's really what's important for all of your communications at varying stages of a crisis, whether
it's 10 minutes into a crisis or a day in or two months, if you have to convey to the public and the
media that you're not hiding anything, that you're trying to give people information as quickly as
possible, as accurately as possible, that you're trying to make the situation better.
That you're not doing anything for short term gain.
And that you want to make amends, this doesn't mean you have to admit to liability and set yourself
up for multibillion dollar lawsuits that put you out of business, but that is what you need to convey
at every interview and every press conference.
You're accessible.
You're not hiding anything.
Here's everything we know right now that we can tell you.
Here's what we're doing to make things better.
Here's what we're going to do here.
Other people were reaching out to to help this situation.
Those are the themes you need to address in your message and you need to figure out how to get that
out in the first minute, ideally in the first 30 seconds.
Now, how often should you communicate during a crisis?
The more you communicate, the better.
The days are gone when the Tylenol situation can hit and you have twenty four hours to respond these
days, if a major company did, that business would be out of business, it would be over for them.
So you certainly need to have some statement out within the hour, ideally less than that.
If it's a huge, huge crisis and TV crews are there and there's anything visible source of a fire and
explosion and destruction injuries, you should be available and accessible, ideally at least once
an hour and even more so.
Here's the challenge for people, is it's human nature to want to give something new?
Well, you might not know anything new for the next six hours or eight hours.
And the key is, don't guess where people get themselves into trouble during a crisis is they want to
be helpful.
They want to be positive.
They want to be optimistic.
So, Mr. Walker, will the fire be out in three hours?
I think so.
I hope so.
Yes.
The fire will be out in three hours.
Well, what happens if it's three and a half hours from now and that fire is still blazing with this
TV reporter can do a split screen.
Here's Walker saying three hours or three and a half hours ago, the fire will definitely be out in
three hours.
And here's the other side of the screen with this roaring fire.
Raging fire.
So now what does everyone know with 100 percent certainty?
This Walker guy is a big liar.
That's what people know, he's not to be trusted.
His assurances are absolutely worthless.
So be very, very careful with that.
Do not guess about the future, don't be optimistic.
Focus on what you know, this is what gets people into trouble.
You saw this in the BP Gulf scandal where predictions were made about how little would come out and
when the hole would be plugged.
Don't guess.
Because if you guess and you guessed right, you don't get a lot of credit, if you guess and you guessed
wrong, you get a tremendous amount of blame, misery and all sorts of negative things happen.
So don't guess stick to the facts.
And if someone says, did terrorism call this was terrorism behind this, don't say, well, it's possible
we haven't ruled anything out yet.
That's the worst possible thing, because now the headline on all the newscasts, possible terrorism
at the Walker industry plant, that's not a good thing.
Why cause more panic?
Don't buy into the hypothetical of reporters.
If you don't know something, simply say we don't know the cause right now, 100 percent of our efforts
are focused on putting out the fire.
Now, did I dodged the question about possible terrorism links?
No, I didn't dodge the question.
I didn't simply use the reporters words back in my answer.
I didn't say I don't know if terrorism was involved.
Anything is possible.
What I do know is no.
Instead, I answered truthfully.
I said, I don't know, because right now we're focused one hundred percent on putting out the fire.
That impulse of wanting to be really helpful and thorough and answer the nuance of every reporter's
question can get you into trouble in a crisis situation, whether it's an interview, live TV or a press
conference.
So it's not that you're going to cover up or hide or obfuscate or all these things people think corporate
communicators do.
That's not it.
The issue is just to more quickly focus on what you do now if you don't know something.
Don't be afraid to say I don't know that one answer can solve.
You can solve so many headaches and problems for people during a crisis.
Now, as soon as a crisis happens, it's critically important that you have your team together.
Now, you could be virtually it could be on the phone, it could be through Skype video, different
locations around the world.
But you quickly have to brainstorm on what are the facts as you know them.
What are all the messages you could say and then boil it down to your top three messages?
And you need a spokesperson in most organizations, the highest ranking person during a time of crisis
is going to be your ideal spokesperson.
So if it is a small fire in a regional plant somewhere and it's not a huge international incident,
well, then it's a crisis just for that town, for that company, it may be the plant manager, but
if it's a huge crisis, something, it's getting international attention.
And you are an international corporation, publicly traded it.
It better be your CEO because it really looks like you're hiding.
It really looks like you have a lot to hide and you're being cowardly if you just sort of push out some
PR person or some PR some hired gun spokesperson not to put down hired spokespersons.
I've been a hired spokesperson.
So not to put those people down, but you need someone who can speak on behalf of the entire organization
during a time of crisis, especially if people are being harmed, especially if other law enforcement
officials or other regulators or FEMA people are being brought here.
And you need to have your top person brought in to the show.
Now, how else can you prepare when I recommend a few people like to do this.
But what I recommend is that you still rehearse before your first interview or before a press conference.
Now you can say, well, to you, that's crazy.
It's a crisis going on.
Calls are coming in.
There's Syra.
There's no time to rehearse.
There's always time to pull a cell phone out of your pocket, deliver your three messages, record it
for 30 seconds.
Look at it once before going into your interview.
That is a total of 60 seconds.
30 seconds to record it.
30 seconds to watch it.
And you'll feel much more confident delivering your messages for the press conference, for the interviews.
Now, if you want more tips on how to come across your best during, frankly, a nerve wracking time,
I urge you to go to media training worldwide dotcom and sign up for the free online media training course,
which is designed to help you during a time of crisis.
You can see the link below in the description here, wherever you're watching this.
And you can also go to media training worldwide dotcom and sign up for the free online course on media
training.
Now, the next thing you need to do if you're an organization is you need to practice exactly how you're
going to respond to a crisis when there is no crisis going on.
That is always going to be the best time.
So plan in advance, you can't plan every crisis, but you can plan on being able to react quickly when
a crisis does happen.
So I would recommend you do simulated exercises.
Think of your worst nightmare, type it up on a sheet of paper.
Get your managers together in a room and say, here's the situation.
Tanabata Today there was in whatever the worst case scenario is for your organization and every industry
is different.
Give them a really specific scenario.
And then let them know there is a reporter could be from CNN, BBC, NBC, or it could be a trade publication
that's highly influential in your world and let that person.
This reporter is going to be here to interview you in half an hour.
Now, come up with message points.
Come up with sound bites.
You've got a half an hour and then get them back and then interview them.
But here's the thing, you've got to interview them, recording it on video.
Whether you use a big camera, a camcorder, your iPad or a cell phone doesn't matter, capture your
people on camera, record it, ask them tough questions, play it back and stop every 10 seconds or
so and ask yourself, how would it be if this were the only 10 seconds that gets on the evening news?
Very different standard than did the person answer the question thoroughly, logically, in great detail,
because you can answer a question thoroughly, logically, brilliantly, in great detail and be awful,
absolutely awful.
In the final interview in terms of what gets quoted, for example, Tony Hayward saying, I want my
life back.
That was the quote that was seen around the world during the BP scandal years ago.
If you looked at the answer to the entire question, he said all the right things.
He said, of course, we want to help the Gulf community.
Of course we want to rebuild the community.
Of course we want to give economic assistance to anyone we've harmed.
Everything he said was great, positive on message.
And in the very last second, he said, hey, you know, nobody wants to get through this more than
faster than I do.
I want my life back, too.
But then and then he went back to positive messages.
If you saw the whole thing, you would think, wow, what a great.
Positive, helpful, thoughtful, caring human being.
This CEO is that's not what people saw.
That's not the standard in a crisis.
The standard is how can any 10 seconds or even five seconds of what you say be edited, sliced, diced,
put in headlines and indeed broadcast to make you look like an idiot because it can happen?
Similarly with Tony Hayward's response to litigation, one of the reporters questions to him was, are
you going to make people whole with these lawsuits against you, Tony Hayward's message?
Of course, we are going to make people whole.
We understand we've caused economic harm.
We want to give assistance to people.
We want to settle.
Everything he said was totally positive and defensive.
Nobody would argue with it.
But then the reporter said, well, yeah, what about the frivolous lawsuits?
And Tony Hayward says, well, hey, it's America.
Of course, they'll be frivolous lawsuits, but I just want to reassure people we are going to be next
couple of minutes.
Everything positive on message about how BP is going to help people?
What was the only quote in the story?
It's America.
Of course, there will be frivolous lawsuits.
Negative made it seem like he was it was not our problem, it's just these ridiculous, litigious Americans
and it really rubbed people the wrong way.
Horrific.
That's why this is different.
That's why it's important to rehearse.
That's why it's a different skill set, that's why you can be the world's greatest public speaker and
frankly be awful.
During a time of crisis, being a crisis communicator, because not only can you be quoted out of context,
you have to be quoted out of context and reporters interviewing you for 10, 20, maybe 30 minutes.
They have to pull just eight seconds out.
So when you complain about being quoted out of context.
Nobody really cares, you're not going to convince anyone because the second you agree to doing an interview,
you set yourself up for being quoted out of context.
Remember, it is not the reporter's job to make you look good.
It's not the reporter's job to make your corporation or your government entity look to it.
It's your job.
To do that, folks, that's why this is hard.
It's frankly why a lot of people hire someone like me in my firm to conduct a full day of crisis communications
training.
So if you're interested in really taking this to the next level, give us a call.
You can reach me.
I'm TJ Walker at two one two seven six four four nine five five.
Or go to the website media training worldwide dot com and remember, at no charge whatsoever, you can
get a crisis communications media training course.
Absolutely no charge.
Just go to media training worldwide dotcom.
I'm T.J. Walker.
Thanks for joining us in this special edition of Speaking.
And may all of your speaking opportunities in life be a huge success, especially the crises.

--- How to Use Humor in a Speech Public Speaking ---

So how do you use humor in a speech?
Now, let me stop you right there.
I don't want you to feel tremendous pressure to be this funny man, this funny character in your speeches
and presentations.
And nothing is more contrived than starting a speech off with some kind of joke you found in a Milton
Berle joke book.
Even if it's a little bit funny, people are kind of like, I guess I'm supposed to laugh now.
It doesn't seem authentic.
It seems contrived.
The best use of humor in a speech is when it doesn't seem like you're trying to be a stand up comedian
when it seems natural, especially if you're making fun of yourself and it seems spontaneous.
That's the best way of using humor.
Now, here's the thing about humor.
If you're getting people to laugh.
Typically, that means a lot of good things have happened.
Number one, they're paying attention to you.
Number two, they are responding to you.
Number three, they're responding with a type of approval.
And number four, it's it's created variety of sound and experience has turned it from a monologue to
a dialogue.
So that's all good stuff if you get people to laugh.
Some people are better at it than others, not personally.
I love comedy.
I love humor.
I go to stand up comedy clubs in New York City all the time, but I'm not particularly great at telling
jokes.
So the way I get humor in a speech or presentation is when I'm making fun of myself.
Bad things have happened and I'm giving a speech and I think everything's great and people are laughing.
And then I realize I somehow have blue ink or chalk on my face and that's what people are laughing at.
It's not funny here.
It's only funny within the context.
So if you're naturally humorous, especially if you can make fun of yourself incorporated into the speech,
but if you're not, don't spend a lot of time, effort researching jokes and writing jokes and shoehorning
them into the presentation, you don't have to.
You can still be effective.
I've been speaking to you for several minutes now and I haven't made you laugh once.
That's OK.

--- Update - You Should Get on the TikTok App Now ---

Hi, this is a quick update to this course and all my courses, there's a new opportunity I wanted to
share with you.
It doesn't matter if you're trying to become a better public speaker, communicator, media communicator,
or you're trying to build personal development habits, whether it's being more creative, having more
purpose in life.
There's something new I wanted to share with you that I think is such a good opportunity and it costs
nothing.
You should hop in right now.
That opportunity is Tic-Tac.
This is the first major new platform social media really in the last decade that is taking off and seeing
exponential growth.
Now, you may have heard that Tic-Tac is just for little kids, 12 year olds and teenagers.
And it is true.
That's where it started.
And it's still very popular with that crew.
But more than one point five billion people have downloaded Tick-Tock and they're more than 500 million
regular users every single day.
Why am I excited about it?
Well, it's frankly too late to easily just post a video on YouTube or Facebook and have thousands of
views come in and really have a quick audience and engagement.
Tic-Tac is different.
Their algorithms are different, and you can make a video, have absolutely no following whatsoever
and very quickly have thousands of views for a video, tens, even hundreds of thousands of views in
your first month on Tic-Tac.
Why is that important?
It's such a great, simple, easy way of practicing communication, practicing spreading your ideas,
sharing your ideas, formulating ideas, building your own habits and getting your ideas out to the
world.
This is an empowering thing because it's frankly very frustrating to spend a week or two editing and
editing and scripts and all sorts of special effects for a YouTube video and have three views come out.
Tock is different.
You just pick up your phone and you can talk.
The other reason I like tick tock for all of my students is it's a great way to easily even daily build
your public speaking skills and your confidence and your communication skills, your media skills and
your confidence skills.
You don't have to have some big script.
You don't have to have a TV studio like this.
You just download the TAC app, go to your app store, download the Tic TAC app.
I've got mine right here.
You push a button and you talk for 15 seconds.
Now, you could get fancier.
Edit you could put music.
Lip-Sync I think the easiest application for you and all of my students is to simply share one idea.
That you have that is useful to your customers, clients, prospects, your community, people who care
about what you do.
This is a great way to showcase your creativity, your thought, your intellectual property.
I do want every single day, seven days a week, vacation or not, because it's so simple.
It's so quick, it's so easy.
This builds confidence.
Now, let me say right upfront, I'm not an investor in Tic TAC.
I don't own Tic TAC.
I benefit from this in no way.
I'm not selling anything.
The Tic TAC app is free as long as you have a cell phone, which I assume you do.
You can download the Tic TAC app and start communicating right away.
I know that for many of you it's been frustrating to learn how to speak on camera, formulate ideas,
formulate new good habits, produce something and then crickets.
You don't hear from anyone.
The beauty of Tic-Tac is they quickly put your videos out in front of hundreds and hundreds of people
every single time and you are going to get feedback.
I have received more meaningful comments and feedback from people on Tic-Tac than I have all other social
media platforms combined, sometimes over a several year period.
More comments in a week or even a day on tick tock videos.
It's also, as I mentioned, the first new social media platform that's come out in the last decade
that has really had exponential growth.
It's still here and where it's easy for a newcomer to hop in.
You might be a teenager.
You might be someone in the early fifties like me.
You could be eighty five years old.
But if you want to share, it's quick.
It's easy, it's simple.
I urge you to go ahead download the Tic TAC app, and it's just a tick tock app on your cell phone right
now.
And go ahead and make a video, try to do it.
If not a daily basis than a weekly basis, you will not regret it.

--- Should I use PowerPoint Slides in my Presentation Public Speaking ---

Should I use PowerPoint or other technology to help me in my presentation?
It's a question people often ask.
Here's the answer.
Yes, if it helps your audience, the PowerPoint is never for you, the speaker.
You have to realize that the slides, any technology you use is always about helping your audience get
a better understanding of your messages, your topic, and to make it more memorable for them.
So any time you hear a speaker.
So I don't need PowerPoint.
Well, I should hope not.
You should already know this material.
The PowerPoint is never for the speaker, it's always for the audience.
So just because you're comfortable with the material doesn't mean you should not use PowerPoint.
If there's a particular picture, an image, a graph that can truly make your ideas come alive to your
audience to help them have a greater understanding of it, then by all means, use it.
It may take you some time creating it.
Your audience doesn't care.
They just want your best.
So when you're trying to make this decision of using technology or other presentation, technology enhancements
always focus on what's really important, helping the audience.
If you do that, you'll make the right decision.

--- PowerPoint Essentials in Less than One Minute Public Speaking ---

I'm going to do a whole series on PowerPoint presentations, but here's everything you really need to
know in less than 60 seconds.
For starters, don't use a slide unless it focuses on just one idea per slide, number one.
Number two, don't use text.
Have an image for your ideas.
You don't want to have text, email that to people.
Give it as a handout.
Number three, if you're talking, don't show a slide.
If you show a slide, shut your mouth.
Ask people to focus on what they do.
Those three things and you will be better at PowerPoint presentations than the vast majority of the
world.

--- AI Tool - ChatGPT - Presentation Skills - Advanced Speak Without Reading Notes ---

This is an update to this course.
Another fantastic tool.
I think that's great for speakers, especially speakers who want to be seen as speaking without notes
is artificial intelligence in the form of chat GPT.
Now I'm creating this video in the end of January 2023.
By the time you're watching this chat, GPT or something like it, some artificial intelligence program
may be built into every word processor, every application, every search engine that you know of.
It may seem old hat, but I want to get you excited about it now if you're not using it because it's
such a fantastic tool for summarizing, shortening, lengthening, suggesting ideas for you.
So if you're giving a presentation, let's say you've written the whole thing out and now you're trying
to figure out how to do it without notes, you could simply input the presentation and ask chat to summarize
it in five or ten or 20 bullet points, and it will do that.
Now, it might not be exactly the same points that you would, but as a starting point, it's a fantastic
tool.
It saves so much time.
Maybe it gets 18, right?
And you think that's fantastic and then you tweak the last two to get it the way you want to.
This artificial intelligence system is just fantastic at pulling all available sources and synthesizing
data, giving it to you in a conversational tone that you can use in a speech, in a presentation,
not that you're going to use word for word and pass off your own thoughts, something you're getting
from a computer, but as a starting point, as background, as context, it is an absolutely fantastic
tool.
It's great for rehearsal too, because you could hone, refine your presentation, get used to doing
it, record the audio, and then have the audio through a microphone application, go right into chat
and then ask for improvements, suggestions, perhaps additional stories, places where you can amplify
your ideas, maybe some citations if you want to give more evidence.
The possibilities are almost endless.
It's a great tool and it's just so quick.
It's so fantastic.
It's a way of getting feedback and it's also a way that you can practice your presentation.
And let's say you're doing it without notes.
You're trying to come across as advanced, but you've been told that you only have 10 minutes for your
presentation.
Will You've rehearsed it.
It seemed like it was 10 minutes when you were writing it out, and now that you've delivered it, it's
20 minutes long.
You can take the presentation that you gave as you actually spoke it, input it into chat and ask it
to give you a ten minute version or ask you to give you a version that's 50% as long without losing
any key points.
And it does a fantastic job.
Again, you've got to edit it.
You could make mistakes that you're not comfortable with or you don't want, but as a starting point,
it is a way of massively, massively saving time.
So I urge you, as I'm urging all of my presentation skills, clients and students, get yourself familiar
with this technology.
Use it because it's it's going to be as dramatic a change, more dramatic.
It changes when people went from handwriting to typing it, from typing to using computers and using
grammar check and spell check.
It's going to be more dramatic than those improvements.

--- Do You Have a Transcript for the Videos In this course ---

Muhammad is a student in the course on how to speak without notes right here and ask the following question.
Is there a transcript of all the videos?
No, not really.
This is a course that is meant to be received in a spoken format.
Now, you will see at the bottom of the course several of my books that do contain the primary contents
of the course.
So if you like to read, there's nothing wrong with that.
I will stress, however, that if you want to be a great speaker, you have to speak and it's simply
a different form of communication than reading and writing and typing.
And that's really what's so different about it.
A lot of people get scared, so they want to read and that's why we play so much of a premium in so
many societies about, Wow, that speaker spoke and they read without notes or they spoke without notes,
they spoke without reading.
You've heard me mention it in the course before, but it bears repeating.
The second you read, you destroy eye contact.
I could have said exactly the same thing the last 2 minutes, but if I were staring down here at a piece
of paper or just staring down here, it wouldn't be as interesting to look at.
You would perceive that I'm not really engaged, that I don't really know my stuff, that I'm having
to read something.
Maybe somebody else wrote it, maybe I don't really know this stuff.
The fact that it appears that I'm looking right at you makes the ideas more interesting, I hope makes
me seem more credible.
So, Mohamed, nothing wrong with asking for the transcript of the videos, but I do want to stress
that's really the main thing.
I mean, this is a long course because I want to give you every single possible tip on how to be a great
speaker and be seen as a charismatic speaker and be seen as someone who can just speak without notes.
But remember, there's no really difficult magic here.
It all comes down to you having a single sheet of notes, something you can fit on a piece of paper
this size, large, bold font.
And then to have three or four of these copies around the room large enough font so you don't have to
put on reading glasses or any other glasses.
And that way you can be walking around the room, glance down, look at your notes and speak, walk
to another part of the room, put your glass down for a second.
And I just looked at my notes again.
That's really.
The most important fact, most important lesson in this.
And you can you've got dozens and dozens of hours of content, but it really does come down to this
32nd tip, which is put your notes on a single sheet of paper and have a couple of different copies,
identical copies of the same sheet of paper.
If you do that, you will be able to speak effectively and you will appear supremely confident and comfortable
and relaxed and authoritative as if you weren't reading notes or using notes or staring at PowerPoint.
Now the course goes into a lot more nuance, as I hope you've gathered, because you can't do this if
you have a typical speech that's sentence after sentence, paragraph after paragraph, bullet point
after bullet point.
A huge, big data dump.
It only works if you follow the other principles I espouse in the course, which is you've got to narrow
your presentation down to literally a handful of key ideas.
And then you need an example, a story for each one to make it resonate.
If you do that, it's pretty easy to fit that on a half a sheet of paper.
If you don't do that, it's not going to fit on a half sheet of paper unless you make the font two point
font, in which case you'd have to hold it like this and put on magnifying glasses, which would completely
destroy the benefit of doing that.
So I hope that's helpful.
Again, check out the books that are not selling any books.
These are all part of your course.
You've already paid for it, so you can simply download the PDF versions of the book and I think they
will give you an additional text supplement.
But the main thing is just start speaking.
Speak every day if you can.
And that's part of the beauty of short form video these days, whether you're doing a YouTube short
or tok or real, any of the social media platforms, just pick one idea and speak.
Could be 15 seconds.
It could be 30 seconds, 60 seconds if you forget what you're going to say.
Hit, delete, start over again.
When you speak every single day with something you've planned, but extemporaneously, it builds in
you a muscle memory so that it gets easier and easier to speak without using notes.
So that's the other really big technique that is never been easier to practice because there's so many
ways of speaking in social media and ways of getting audience these days, whether it is YouTube, whether
it's Tik Tok, you do both of those, you're probably going to get at least 300 views no matter what.
Combined, that gives you some exposure that will build your confidence as a speaker.
Good luck.

--- One Last Chance to Make This Course Better for Your Permanent Learning Library ---

OK, I admit it, I'm a hypocrite.
I ask for reviews.
I don't always leave reviews.
I say, Well, you know, I'm so important.
I'm in a rush.
Let me just finish the course and forget the reviews.
Well, I feel for you.
I've been there, but I'm telling you, I really need you to leave a written review of this course.
Let me know what you think.
What did you like?
What could be better?
That's how this course will improve.
Now, the beauty of online courses is they're not like books where you just print it.
That's it.
It never changes.
This course changes constantly.
It's updated.
We add things.
We take things out that you could probably see.
I got less hair than some of the earlier videos in this course.
That's because this video is new.
We're always updating that I might not look prettier, but we are trying to make this course look prettier
and be better for you.
So I'm asking, please leave a written review and don't just leave a star.
No, actually leave several sentences.
Let me know what you took away from this course.
How did it help you or not help you give as much details as possible?
That's the only way I can make this course better for you.
And hey, since you now have lifetime access to this course, the course is going to get better for
you too.
So please don't just fast forward.
Leave a review right now if you've already left review.
You can always hit the edit button top right hand portion of your screen, and you can leave a more
detailed review.
Thanks so much.
I really do appreciate it.

--- Conclusion to the Whole Darn Course! ---

Wow, you are hardcore if you got through this entire course and you actually watched every single video.
I'm impressed with your commitment.
I'm impressed with your desire to learn.
And I want to just give you a special thanks.
In fact, if you ever come to the New York City area, look me up.
Send me a message right here.
I like to buy you a cup of coffee, so thanks so much for your dedication and learning.
Also, please send me links from time to time of your best presentations.
I love seeing how students, current and former students improve and go on to give better and better
speeches throughout their career.
So send me your links from time to time.
I'd love to see.
And let me know if you're in New York.
Love to buy you a cup of coffee.

--- Here Is How You Can Get your Certificate of Completion for this Course ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Bonus Lecture ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Understanding the Power of Note-Free Speaking ---

In today's lesson, we delve into the transformative power of effective communication, specifically
focusing on the art of speaking without relying on notes.
Imagine standing in front of an audience, your mind clear, your message powerful, and your delivery
flawless, all without the crutch of notes or prompts.
This is the pinnacle of public speaking, a skill that distinguishes good speakers from great ones.
To achieve this, we must first understand the psychological impact of note free speaking on both the
speaker and the audience.
When a speaker engages with their audience without the barrier of notes, it creates a connection that
is both authentic and compelling.
This connection is not just about eye contact, it's about the energy and confidence that flows from
the speaker to the audience, transforming the presentation into an impactful experience.
The journey to mastering note free speaking begins with the development of a strong memory.
Techniques such as the memory palace or the method of loci have been used for centuries by orators to
memorize speeches by associating pieces of information with specific locations in a mental image of
a physical space.
Speakers can recall details with ease.
This method not only improves memory, but also enhances the speaker's ability to visualize their speech,
creating a more dynamic and engaging delivery.
Another crucial aspect of note free speaking is the structure of the presentation.
A well-structured speech with a clear beginning, middle, and end aids in memorization and delivery.
It's about crafting a narrative that is not only easy for the speaker to remember, but also for the
audience to follow.
The use of storytelling techniques can be particularly effective as stories are more memorable than
abstract information.
By weaving key messages into a narrative, speakers can ensure that their points are not only heard
but remembered.
Practice, of course, is indispensable.
It is through repeated practice that the speaker becomes familiar with the material, not just on a
cognitive level, but on an emotional and physical one as well.
This familiarity breeds confidence, allowing the speaker to move beyond the words to deliver a message
with passion and conviction.
It's not about memorizing word for word, but internalizing the essence of the message so that it can
be communicated in a way that feels natural and spontaneous.
Lastly, embracing imperfection is a vital part of speaking without notes.
The fear of forgetting or making a mistake often holds speakers back from attempting note free presentations.
However, minor imperfections or deviations from the script can actually enhance a speaker's authenticity,
making them more relatable to the audience.
It's about being present in the moment, connecting with the audience, and communicating from the heart.
In conclusion, the ability to speak without notes is not just a skill, but an art form that elevates
the speaker audience connection to new heights.
It requires practice, confidence, and a deep understanding of one's material, but the rewards are
immeasurable.
By mastering this art, speakers can transform their presentations into memorable, impactful experiences
that resonate with their audience long after the speech has ended.

--- Download The *Amazing* +100 Page Workbook For this Course ---

In this course, we provide you with one page downloads for each of the high quality lessons, which
you can access from the curriculum on the right hand side of the lesson player window.
You can download these with each lesson so you have them for easy reference as you apply the principles
and learnings from the course.
We have also combined and consolidated all of these one pages into a single workbook, which puts everything
in one place for your convenience.
You can download it right here from this lesson and work through it as you complete the course.
So just to recap, we've taken the time to capture all the key takeaways from each lesson and put them
in individual lesson downloads.
Plus we've combined them into a single consolidated workbook.
We hope you find all these resources valuable in helping you achieve your goals through this course.
Make sure to download the consolidated workbook from this lesson and enjoy!

--- Download Your *Complimentary* eBook For This Course ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Get This Course In Audio Format: Download All Audio Files From This Lecture ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Introduce Yourself And Tell Us Your Awesome Goals With This Course ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Shifting from Reading to Engaging ---

Transitioning from a script dependent speaker to a dynamic, engaging communicator is a transformative
journey.
It begins with understanding the power of connection over perfection.
The fear of forgetting lines or making mistakes often leads speakers to cling to their notes.
However, the essence of impactful speaking lies in the ability to connect with your audience on a personal
level, something that reading from a script can hinder.
To embark on this journey, start with the practice of distilling your message into key themes rather
than memorizing every word.
This approach shifts the focus from reciting to understanding and conveying the core message.
Think of your presentation as a story with a clear beginning, middle, and end.
Each section should flow naturally into the next, guided by the main points rather than scripted lines.
Visualization techniques can significantly aid this process, visualizing your speech as a series of
interconnected images or a pathway through a landscape can help embed your key points in memory.
This method, known as the Memory Palace technique, leverages spatial memory to recall information
in a vivid and structured way.
Another critical aspect is rehearsal.
However, the goal of rehearsal is not memorization but familiarity.
Rehearse your presentation in various settings and at different times of the day.
This variability helps build confidence in your ability to deliver your message under any circumstances.
Additionally, recording your rehearsals and watching them back can provide insights into areas for
improvement and increase your comfort with the material.
Engaging with your audience is also crucial.
Eye contact, for instance, can transform a presentation.
It makes your audience feel acknowledged and involved in the conversation.
Practice making eye contact with different parts of the audience throughout your presentation.
This practice helps in breaking the barrier between the speaker and the audience, making the experience
more interactive and personal.
Lastly, embracing imperfections is vital.
Authenticity resonates more with audiences than flawless delivery.
If you stumble over words, acknowledge it with grace and move on.
Your audience will appreciate your humanity and feel more connected to you as a speaker.
In conclusion, the transition from reading notes to engaging your audience is a journey of building
confidence in your message and yourself.
It involves understanding your material deeply, employing memory techniques, practicing extensively,
connecting with your audience, and embracing imperfections.
This approach not only enhances the delivery of your presentation, but also transforms the experience
for both you and your audience, making it more memorable and impactful.

--- The Basics of Memory and Recall in Public Speaking ---

Understanding the psychology behind memory and recall can significantly enhance your public speaking
skills.
Imagine delivering a powerful presentation, engaging your audience without once glancing at your notes.
This isn't a skill reserved for the few.
It's an art that can be learned and mastered with the right techniques.
Today we delve into the cognitive mechanisms that enable this feat and how you can apply them to your
presentations.
Memory is our brain's capability to encode, store, and retrieve information when needed.
It's a complex process involving different types of memory short term, long term, and working memory.
For public speaking, we focus primarily on long term memory and techniques to transfer information
from short term to long term memory efficiently.
One such technique is the method of loci, an ancient mnemonic strategy that involves visualizing a
familiar place and associating elements of your speech with specific locations within this mental landscape.
This method not only aids in memorization, but also makes recall smoother and more natural during your
presentation.
Another critical aspect is the role of understanding and personal connection in memory retention.
Information is more easily remembered when it has personal significance or when it's understood deeply
rather than superficially memorized.
This is why truly grasping your topic and connecting with it on a personal level can make a significant
difference in how well you remember your speech.
Integrating stories, anecdotes, or examples that resonate with you can also make the memorization
process more effective and the delivery more authentic.
Practice is, of course, indispensable.
Repeatedly rehearsing your speech out loud and in various settings helps solidify the information in
your long term memory.
Each rehearsal should aim to mimic the conditions of the actual presentation as closely as possible,
engaging not just your voice, but your body language and visual aids, if applicable.
This holistic approach to practice ensures that your delivery becomes second nature, allowing you to
focus on connecting with your audience rather than recalling your next line.
In conclusion, mastering the art of delivering presentations without notes is not just about memorizing
words.
It's about understanding your material.
Making a personal connection with it and practicing in a way that engages your whole being.
By employing memory enhancing techniques like the method of loci, making your material personally significant
and thorough practice, you'll be well on your way to captivating your audience with ease and confidence,
all without a glance at your notes.

--- Building a Structured Approach to Internalizing Content ---

Effective communication is the cornerstone of impactful presentations.
Yet the art of speaking without relying on notes is a skill that eludes many.
Today, we delve into strategies that enable you to deliver presentations with confidence, clarity
and conviction without the crutch of notes.
Imagine stepping onto the stage.
Your mind clear, your message internalized, and your audience captivated.
This is the power of mastering.
Note free presentations.
To begin, the foundation of any memorable presentation lies in its structure.
A well-structured presentation follows a logical flow, making it easier to internalize and recall.
Start with crafting a compelling opening that hooks your audience from the first word.
This could be a startling statistic, a poignant question, or a relatable anecdote.
The opening sets the tone and primes your audience for the journey they're about to embark on with you.
Following the opening, outline your key points in a logical sequence.
Each point should build upon the previous one, leading your audience through your presentation like
a story.
This narrative approach not only makes your presentation more engaging, but also simplifies the memorization
process.
Stories are inherently easier to remember than disjointed facts, because they connect with our emotions
and experiences.
To enhance your ability to recall these points.
Employ mental mapping techniques.
Mental mapping involves associating each key point with a specific image or concept, creating a mental
map of your presentation.
This technique taps into the visual and spatial memory systems, which are more robust than verbal memory
alone.
For instance, if your first key point is about innovation, you might visualize a light bulb.
When you reach this segment of your presentation, the image of the light bulb triggers your memory
of the associated content.
Another critical aspect is the practice of distillation.
Distill your content to its essence, focusing on the core message you want to convey.
This doesn't mean omitting necessary details, but rather ensuring every word serves a purpose.
The more concise your presentation, the easier it is to internalize and deliver without notes.
Repetition plays a crucial role in moving information from short term to long term memory.
Rehearse your presentation multiple times, focusing on the flow and the transitions between points.
With each repetition, your familiarity with the material increases, making it easier to recall during
the actual presentation.
Lastly, cultivate a mindset of flexibility.
Even with thorough preparation, be prepared to adapt your presentation in real time based on the audience's
reactions and feedback.
This adaptive approach not only makes your presentation more responsive, but also more engaging.
In summary, the ability to deliver presentations without notes is a skill that combines structure,
storytelling, mental mapping, distillation, repetition, and flexibility.
By mastering these techniques, you transform your presentations into memorable experiences for your
audience, establishing a deep connection and leaving a lasting impression.
Embrace these strategies and watch as your confidence and impact as a speaker soar to new heights.

--- Introduction to Mental Mapping for Presentations ---

Public speaking is an art that has evolved significantly over the years, transforming from a mere exchange
of information to a powerful tool for persuasion and leadership.
In today's fast paced world, the ability to deliver a compelling presentation without relying on notes
or is not just an asset, but a necessity for professionals across all sectors.
This lesson delves into the innovative technique of mental mapping, a strategy that enhances memory
recall and helps speakers deliver their message with confidence and clarity.
Mental mapping, at its core, is a method that involves structuring your presentation content in a
way that aligns with how the human brain naturally processes and retrieves information.
Unlike traditional note taking, which can be linear and restrictive, mental mapping encourages a more
flexible associative form of thinking.
This approach not only aids in memorizing the content more efficiently, but also allows for a more
spontaneous and engaging delivery.
The process of creating a mental map starts with identifying the key message or the central idea of
your presentation.
This central idea acts as the nucleus of your map to which all other information is connected.
From there, you branch out to subtopics or key points, visualizing them as branches extending from
the central idea.
Each branch is further embellished with examples, stories, statistics, and other supporting details,
creating a rich, interconnected web of information.
One of the most compelling aspects of mental mapping is its versatility.
Whether you're delivering a technical presentation to experts in your field or a motivational speech
to a general audience, the technique can be tailored to suit any topic, audience, or objective.
Furthermore, mental mapping encourages the use of vivid imagery, metaphors, and personal anecdotes,
making your presentation not only memorable to the audience, but also easier for you to recall without
the need for notes.
Incorporating Mipmapping into your presentation.
Preparation requires practice and patience.
It begins with the creation of a physical map, which can be drawn on paper or created using digital
tools.
This initial step is crucial as it translates your thoughts into a visual format, making it easier
to memorize and internalize over time as you become more adept at creating and using mental maps.
You'll find that the need to refer to your physical map diminishes, allowing you to deliver your presentation
with greater freedom and dynamism.
In conclusion, mental mapping is a powerful technique that can transform the way you approach public
speaking.
By leveraging the natural workings of the brain, it enables you to deliver presentations that are not
only free from the constraints of notes, but are also more engaging, persuasive, and memorable.
As you master this technique, you'll find yourself becoming a more confident and effective speaker,
capable of making a lasting impact on your audience.

--- Let's Celebrate Your Progress In This Course: 25% > 50% > 75% > 100% ---

Welcome to leveling up your progress and your success in this course.
I really want you to succeed.
So we'll be recognizing and celebrating your progress at four stages throughout this course.
First of all, when you get to 25%, I'll check in with you and we'll celebrate your progress.
That'll be a quarter of this course achieved.
You're on your way to success.
Then after that, at 50% halfway through this course, what a fantastic milestone to have achieved on
your journey to getting the skills that you want and solving the problems that you're working on as
part of this course.
And then 75%, you're almost there.
Absolutely amazing.
We'll be celebrating three quarters of progress through this course and leading up to, of course,
100% success.
You've done everything.
You've climbed the mountain.
You can download your certificate.
I'd really love you to share that certificate on LinkedIn or social media.
Just tag me or hashtag Peter Alchemy and we will celebrate for you both in this course and in our network.
So good luck and let's celebrate your progress throughout this course.
Good luck!
I look forward to checking in with you as we level up on your success and your progress in this course.

--- The Science Behind Effective Memory Techniques ---

Effective communication is at the heart of every successful presentation.
However, the ability to deliver these presentations without relying on notes is a skill that sets apart
good speakers from great ones.
Today, we dive into the science behind effective memory techniques that can empower you to speak confidently
and fluently without the crutch of notes.
Memory A complex cognitive process involves encoding, storing, and retrieving information.
Understanding this process is crucial for developing strategies to improve memory retention.
Techniques such as the method of loci, also known as the memory palace, leverage the brain's innate
spatial memory to recall information by associating pieces of information with specific locations in
a familiar place.
Speakers can effectively navigate through their presentation points as if walking through a physical
space.
Another powerful technique is the use of mnemonics.
These are tools that help us remember information through association using simple patterns of letters,
lists, or ideas.
For instance, acronyms where each letter stands for a word in a phrase can simplify complex information
into manageable, easily recallable chunks.
This method is particularly useful for remembering lists or sequences which are common in presentations.
Chunking is another strategy that breaks down information into smaller, more manageable units or chunks.
This approach is based on the concept that our short term memory can typically hold only a limited amount
of information at once.
By organizing information into chunks, we can improve our ability to remember and recall it during
a presentation.
Visualization is a technique that involves creating a mental image for the information that needs to
be remembered.
This.
This method is especially effective for visual learners who can recall images more easily than words.
By turning abstract data or concepts into vivid, concrete images, speakers can more readily access
this information during their presentations.
The Feynman Technique, named after the renowned physicist Richard Feynman, focuses on teaching the
content to someone else.
In simple terms, this method reinforces understanding and recall by forcing the speaker to simplify
and clarify their thoughts, making the information more memorable and easier to articulate without
notes.
Practice, of course, plays a critical role in memorizing presentations.
Rehearsing out loud repeatedly helps to solidify the memory of the presentations content.
It also aids in refining the delivery, making the speech more natural and engaging.
In conclusion, mastering the art of delivering presentations without reading from notes requires understanding
and applying effective memory techniques by leveraging methods like the Memory Palace, mnemonics,
chunking, visualization, and the Feynman Technique.
Speakers can enhance their memory retention and recall abilities coupled with diligent practice.
These strategies enable speakers to deliver powerful note free presentations, engaging their audience
with confidence and ease.
Embracing these techniques not only improves presentation skills, but also enriches overall communication
abilities, making them invaluable tools for any professional.

--- Creating Mental Maps for Complex Presentations ---

Welcome to today's session on creating mental maps for complex presentations.
Imagine delivering a presentation so engaging that your audience hangs on to every word, and you do
it all without glancing at your notes.
This isn't just a skill reserved for the gifted few.
It's an art that can be mastered with the right techniques.
Starting with mental mapping.
Mental mapping is a powerful tool that leverages the brain's natural ability to associate ideas with
images, making complex information easier to recall.
It begins with visualizing the core message of your presentation as the center of a map.
From this nucleus, branches spread out, representing different sections or key points of your presentation.
Each branch is further divided into smaller branches detailing facts, data, or anecdotes that support
your main points.
This method transforms your presentation into a vivid landscape in your mind, where each element is
interconnected and easily accessible.
To effectively create a mental map, start by breaking down your presentation into its main components.
Assign a unique image or symbol to each component, something that resonates with you and embodies the
essence of the point.
The strength of mental mapping lies in its flexibility.
You can create maps that are as detailed or as simple as you need.
However, the key is to ensure that each image is distinct and memorable.
Let's take a real world example.
Imagine you're presenting on the impact of renewable energy sources.
Your central image might be the planet Earth, symbolizing the global scale of your topic.
One branch could be a shining sun representing solar energy connected to smaller branches like solar
panels and statistics on solar power adoption.
Another branch could be a gust of wind leading to points on wind turbines and their efficiency.
By associating each segment of your presentation with vivid imagery, you're not just memorizing words,
you're embedding a story in your mind.
Practicing with your mental map is crucial.
Walk through your map several times, visualizing the journey from one point to the next.
This practice solidifies the map in your memory, making your delivery smoother and more confident.
The beauty of this technique is that it doesn't require memorization in the traditional sense.
Instead, you're recalling interconnected ideas and images which naturally flow into a coherent narrative.
Incorporating mental mapping into your presentation.
Preparation not only enhances your recall, but also improves your ability to speak dynamically and
adapt your delivery to the audience's reactions.
If a particular point sparks interest, you can easily expand on it without losing your place or resorting
to notes.
This flexibility makes your presentation feel more like a conversation and less like a lecture.
In conclusion, mental mapping is a transformative technique for anyone looking to deliver compelling,
note free presentations by converting your presentation into a vivid mental landscape.
You empower yourself to speak with confidence, clarity, and conviction.
The next time you stand before an audience, remember that your most powerful tool is not the notes
in your hand, but the map in your mind.
Let's embrace mental mapping and change the way we communicate our ideas.

--- Leveraging Storytelling as a Memory Tool ---

What makes storytelling an incredibly powerful tool for memory and learning.
Today, we dive into the art of leveraging storytelling as a memory tool, a technique that has been
used for centuries to pass down knowledge and information from one generation to the next.
Storytelling is not just an art, it's a strategic tool that can make your presentations unforgettable.
Let's explore how humans are naturally wired to remember stories.
This is because stories engage us emotionally, making the information conveyed more memorable.
When we hear a story, our brains light up not just in the language processing parts, but also in the
areas associated with experiences.
This means when you tell a story, your audience doesn't just hear it, they experience it.
By incorporating stories into your presentations, you're essentially making your audience live through
the moments with you, making the information stick.
But how exactly do you use storytelling effectively in presentations?
First, understand the elements of a good story.
Every compelling story has a clear structure, a beginning where you set the scene a middle where there's
conflict or a challenge and an end where the resolution is found.
This structure helps your audience follow along and stay engaged.
Next, add details to make your story vivid.
Use descriptive language to paint a picture and evoke emotions.
Remember, the goal is to make your audience feel something because emotion is a key driver of memory.
Let's consider an example.
Imagine you're presenting on the importance of cybersecurity.
Instead of starting with statistics and technical jargon, you could begin with a story about a small
business that suffered a significant data breach.
Describe the initial confusion, the panic that set in once the breach was confirmed, the struggle
to secure the system, and finally, the lessons learned and the measures put in place to prevent future
incidents.
This narrative not only makes your presentation more engaging, but also more memorable.
Incorporating storytelling into your presentations also means knowing your audience.
Tailor your stories to their experiences and interests to ensure maximum engagement.
If you're speaking to a group of young entrepreneurs, for example, choose stories that reflect the
challenges and triumphs of starting a business.
This relevance makes your message more impactful.
Moreover, storytelling can simplify complex information by framing data within a story.
You make it accessible.
Imagine explaining a complicated technical process rather than delving into the intricacies from the
get go.
You could start with a story about how this process impacts daily life.
Making the technical details that follow easier to digest and understand.
In conclusion, storytelling is not just a way to entertain.
It's a powerful tool to enhance memory and learning.
By crafting your presentations around stories, you make your message more engaging, emotional, and
ultimately more memorable.
Remember, the next time you're preparing a presentation, don't just share information.
Tell a story.
This approach will not only captivate your audience, but also leave a lasting impression.
Ensuring your message is not just heard, but remembered.

--- Visualization Techniques for Speakers ---

Effective communication is not just about what you say, but how you say it.
Today we delve into the power of visualization techniques for speakers, an essential tool for anyone
looking to deliver presentations without relying on notes.
Imagine standing in front of an audience, your message flowing, effortlessly, connecting with every
individual.
This is the power of visualization at work.
Visualization in the context of public speaking involves creating a mental image of your entire presentation,
from the opening to the conclusion.
It's about seeing yourself delivering your speech confidently and vividly imagining the audience's positive
reactions.
This technique not only helps in memorizing your content, but also significantly boosts your confidence.
Let's break down how to effectively use visualization.
Start by crafting a clear and concise script for your presentation.
Once you have your script, divide it into manageable sections.
These sections will serve as the foundation for your mental imagery.
The next step is to create a vivid mental picture for each section.
For instance, if you're discussing innovation, picture yourself holding a light bulb, symbolizing
the spark of new ideas.
This imagery will anchor each section of your speech in your memory.
Now incorporate emotions into your visualization.
How do you want to feel during the presentation?
Confident.
Passionate.
Authoritative?
And how do you want your audience to feel engaged?
Inspired?
Motivated?
Emotions are powerful memory enhancers.
By associating each section of your speech with specific emotions, you're more likely to remember and
deliver it effectively.
Practice is key to mastering visualization regularly.
Visualize your presentation from start to finish.
Do this in a quiet place where you can concentrate without interruptions.
The more you practice, the more detailed and vivid your mental imagery will become, making it easier
to recall your speech.
Incorporating visualization techniques doesn't mean you should ignore other aspects of effective public
speaking.
Body language or vocal variety and audience engagement are equally important.
However, visualization enhances these aspects by ensuring your message is internalized, allowing for
a more natural and engaging delivery.
In conclusion, visualization is a powerful technique for speakers aiming to deliver note free presentations.
It not only aids in memorization, but also boosts confidence, making your message more impactful by
visualizing your success.
Your one step closer to making it a reality.
Remember, the best speakers are not necessarily those who memorize every word, but those who connect
with their audience on a deeper level.
Visualization is the bridge to that connection.

--- Association Methods to Enhance Recall ---

Imagine stepping onto a stage, facing a sea of faces and delivering a powerful presentation without
once glancing at your notes.
Sounds daunting.
Not with the right techniques.
Today we'll dive into the art of association methods, a game changer for memorizing your speech and
connecting deeply with your audience.
Association methods hinge on the principle that our minds are better at recalling information linked
to vivid, sensory, rich images or stories.
This technique is not just about memorization.
It's about making your message memorable and engaging for your audience, ensuring it resonates long
after you've left the stage.
Let's start with the story method, a powerful tool in your arsenal.
This involves weaving key points of your presentation into a compelling narrative.
Humans are hardwired to remember stories much more effectively than isolated facts.
By embedding your message in a story, you create a mental journey for your audience, making complex
information accessible and memorable.
Next we explore the method of loci, an ancient technique dating back to Greek and Roman times.
This method involves visualizing a familiar place like your home, and placing mental images of the
key points of your presentation in different locations.
During your speech, you mentally walk through this space, triggering the recall of each point as you
see the associated image.
This not only aids in memorization, but also helps in structuring your presentation in a logical flow.
Mind mapping is another powerful technique, especially for visual learners.
It involves creating a diagram that represents connections between your presentations main idea and
its supporting points.
Each branch of the map is a visual cue, leading you through your content in a way that's easy to remember.
Mind maps are not only helpful in memorization phase, but also invaluable in the planning stages of
your presentation.
The Peg system is a method that works well for presentations with a list of items or key points.
It involves associating each point with a peg, usually a number or letter.
For instance, if you're presenting five key strategies, you might link each strategy to the fingers
on your hand during your presentation.
Recalling each finger will help you remember the associated strategy.
Lastly, the link method is a simple yet effective way to remember sequences of information.
This involves creating a story where each piece of information is linked to the next in a memorable
way.
The absurd or humorous the imagery, the more likely you are to remember it.
In conclusion, association methods are not just about improving your memory, they're about enhancing
the impact of your presentations.
By employing these techniques, you can deliver your message with confidence and flair, creating a
lasting impression on your audience.
Remember, the goal is not to memorize word for word, but to internalize your content so deeply that
you can speak from the heart, making genuine connections with your audience.

--- Designing Slides that Support, Not Lead ---

In today's fast paced world, the art of public speaking has evolved beyond the traditional podium and
note cards.
One of the most critical skills for any presenter is the ability to speak confidently without relying
on notes.
This ability not only enhances the speaker's credibility, but also fosters a more genuine connection
with the audience.
Let's dive into the strategies and techniques that can help you master this skill.
To begin, understanding your material is foundational.
This doesn't mean memorizing your speech word for word, but rather having a deep grasp of the subject
matter.
When you internalize the essence of what you want to convey, you create a flexible framework in your
mind, allowing you to navigate your presentation more dynamically.
Visualization is a powerful tool in this process.
By creating a mental map of your presentation, associating each key point with a vivid image or memory,
you can more easily recall your material during your speech.
This technique, known as the Memory Palace, leverages the brain's natural spatial memory to help you
remember and retrieve information more effectively.
Practice, as expected, plays a crucial role.
However, the focus should be on practicing the flow of ideas rather than memorizing sentences.
Engage in speaking exercises that simulate the presentation environment as closely as possible.
This could include practicing in front of a mirror, recording yourself, or organizing mock presentations
with friends or colleagues as your audience.
Breathing techniques also significantly impact your ability to deliver a speech without notes.
Proper breathing not only helps to calm nerves, but also improves voice projection and pacing.
Before stepping onto the stage, take a few moments to practice deep breathing exercises.
This will help center your focus and prepare your mind and body for the task ahead.
Another key aspect is learning to trust yourself.
Confidence comes from preparation and practice.
The more familiar you are with your material, and the more you've practiced your delivery, the more
confident you'll feel.
Trust in your ability to communicate your message effectively, even if you momentarily lose your place.
Often, your audience won't notice minor missteps if you maintain your composure and steer the presentation
back on track smoothly.
Finally, engage with your audience.
Making eye contact, reading the room, and responding to the audience's energy can help keep your presentation
dynamic and interactive.
This engagement not only makes your speech more compelling, but also helps you stay mentally present
and connected to your material.
In conclusion, speaking without notes is a skill that combines deep knowledge of your subject, mental
preparation, physical readiness, and emotional confidence.
By employing these techniques, you can transform your public speaking into an engaging, impactful
experience that resonates with your audience.
Remember, the goal is not perfection, but rather authentic and effective communication.

--- Using Visuals Effectively Without Reading Notes ---

Visual aids can transform a good presentation into an unforgettable one.
Today we're diving into how to use visuals effectively, ensuring your message is not only heard, but
also seen and remembered, all without the crutch of reading notes.
Imagine standing in front of an audience, your message flowing seamlessly as your visuals complement
every word, engaging every viewer.
This is the art and science of effective visual communication in presentations.
The power of visuals lies in their ability to convey complex information, quickly evoke emotions,
and enhance memory retention.
When used correctly, they can significantly amplify the impact of your presentation.
Let's start with the principle of simplicity.
A common mistake is overcrowding slides with information.
The key is to keep visuals simple and relevant.
A single powerful image can tell a story more effectively than a slide crammed with bullet points.
This approach not only makes your presentation more engaging, but also helps you to internalize your
message and deliver it more naturally without relying on notes.
Next, let's talk about consistency in design, consistency in font size, color schemes and layout
across all visuals helps in maintaining a professional and cohesive look.
This visual harmony makes your presentation more aesthetically pleasing and easier for the audience
to follow, allowing you to navigate through your presentation smoothly and confidently.
The strategic use of colors and fonts cannot be overstated.
Colors evoke emotions and can significantly affect how your message is received.
Warm colors such as red and orange can be used to grab attention or highlight important points, while
cool colors like blue and green can have a calming effect and are great for backgrounds.
Similarly, choosing the right font size and style is crucial for readability.
Remember, your visuals are there to support your spoken words, not to replace them.
Interactivity brings a dynamic element to your presentation, engaging your audience with interactive
elements such as polls, quizzes, or even simple Q&amp;A sessions can make your presentation more memorable.
This approach not only keeps the audience engaged, but also gives you a chance to interact directly
with them, making your presentation feel more like a conversation and less like a monologue.
Finally, the relevance of your visuals to your message is paramount.
Every image, graph, or chart should serve a clear purpose and be directly linked to the core message
of your presentation.
Irrelevant visuals can distract and confuse your audience, detracting from the impact of your presentation.
In conclusion, mastering the use of visuals in presentations allows you to deliver your message with
clarity and confidence, engaging your audience without the need to read from notes.
By keeping your visuals simple, consistent and relevant, and by utilizing colors, fonts, and interactivity
wisely, you can create a memorable presentation experience.
Remember, the goal is to complement your spoken words with visuals, not overshadow them.
This approach not only makes your presentation more effective, but also helps you connect with your
audience on a deeper level, leaving a lasting impression.

--- Balancing Verbal Content with Visual Aids ---

Effective presentation skills are essential in today's professional world, where the ability to communicate
ideas clearly and persuasively can make the difference between success and failure.
In this lesson, we'll delve into the art of balancing verbal content with visual aids, a critical
skill for anyone looking to enhance their presentation capabilities.
When preparing for a presentation, it's crucial to remember that your verbal content and visual aids
should complement each other, not compete for attention.
The primary purpose of visual aids is to enhance understanding, retention, and engagement, not to
serve as a crutch or distract from the message you're conveying.
Let's start by discussing the role of visual aids.
Visual aids such as slides, charts, and videos can significantly enhance the audience's ability to
grasp complex information.
They provide a visual context that can make abstract concepts more tangible and memorable.
However, the misuse of visual aids can lead to confusion or disengagement.
For instance, slides crammed with text or overly complex diagrams can overwhelm the audience, detracting
from the message you're trying to communicate.
To strike the right balance, begin by focusing on your verbal content.
Outline the key points you want to convey, and consider how visual aids can support these points.
Each visual element should have a clear purpose, whether it's to illustrate a concept, highlight a
statistic, or provide a real world example.
Remember, simplicity is key.
A single powerful image can often communicate more than a slide full of bullet points.
Now let's talk about integrating verbal content and visual aids.
When presenting, your verbal narration should guide the audience through the visual content, providing
context and elaboration.
Avoid simply reading text from the slides.
Instead, use them as a backdrop to your narrative, elaborating on the points with additional insights,
stories, or examples that you don't include in the visual aids.
Engagement is another critical aspect to consider.
Visual aids can be an excellent tool for engaging your audience, but they should not replace interaction.
Pose questions, invite discussion, and encourage reflection to make your presentation a two way conversation.
This approach keeps the audience involved and makes the experience more memorable.
In conclusion, mastering the balance between verbal content and visual aids is essential for delivering
impactful presentations by ensuring that your visual aids complement your narrative.
Maintaining simplicity and fostering engagement, you can create presentations that not only inform
but also inspire your audience.
Remember, the goal is to enhance your message, not overshadow it.
Creating a harmonious blend of verbal and visual communication that captivates your audience from start
to finish.

--- Creating Engaging Transitions Between Slides ---

Effective communication is the cornerstone of impactful presentations.
Today, we delve into the art of mastering transitions between slides, a skill that elevates your presentation
from good to great.
Imagine you're on a journey, guiding your audience through a landscape of ideas, where each slide
is a scenic spot.
The transitions are the paths between these spots and how you navigate these paths can make all the
difference.
First, let's understand why transitions matter.
They are not just about moving from one slide to another.
They are opportunities to reinforce your message, maintain audience engagement, and build a cohesive
narrative.
A well crafted transition acts as a bridge connecting disparate ideas into a unified story.
It's the moment you prepare your audience for what's coming next, ensuring they're with you every step
of the way.
Now, how do we create engaging transitions?
It starts with a clear understanding of your content.
Each slide should serve a purpose, contributing to the overall message of your presentation.
Before you move on to the next slide, summarize the key point of the current one, creating a sense
of closure.
Then introduce the next topic by highlighting its relevance to what was just discussed.
This method, known as the Lincoln Build technique, ensures a smooth and logical flow of information.
Another effective strategy is to use questions as transitions.
Posing a question related to the upcoming slide piques curiosity and engages the audience, making them
eager to hear the answer.
This interactive approach transforms passive listeners into active participants in your presentation.
Storytelling is yet another powerful tool for seamless transitions.
Weave your slides into a narrative, with each slide representing a chapter in your story.
When you transition, you're simply moving the narrative forward, keeping the audience hooked on what
happens next.
This technique not only makes your presentation more relatable, but also more memorable.
Visual cues can also enhance your Answer.
Transitions, subtle animations, or changes in slide backgrounds can signal a shift in topic, preparing
your audience visually for the transition.
However, it's crucial to use visual effects sparingly and strategically, as overuse can distract from
your message.
Lastly, practice is key to mastering transitions.
Rehearse your presentation, paying special attention to how you move from one slide to the next.
Seek feedback from peers or mentors and refine your transitions based on their insights.
With practice, you'll develop a natural flow, making your transitions appear effortless to the audience.
In conclusion, transitions are not just functional elements of a presentation.
They are opportunities to strengthen your narrative, engage your audience, and reinforce your message.
By mastering the art of transitions, you elevate your presentation skills, ensuring a more impactful
and memorable experience for your audience.
Remember, the goal is not just to present information, but to take your audience on a journey they
won't forget.

--- Techniques for Remembering Slides Order Without Looking ---

Imagine stepping onto a stage, facing an eager audience, ready to deliver a presentation without once
glancing at your notes.
Today, we'll unlock the secrets to memorizing your slide order, ensuring you can present with confidence
and charisma.
The key lies in mastering the art of mental mapping, a technique that not only enhances your memory,
but also your overall presentation skills.
To begin, let's delve into the concept of mental mapping.
This powerful tool involves visualizing your presentation as a journey through a familiar place like
your home.
Each room represents a different slide or section of your talk.
By associating each point you wish to cover with a specific location, you create a mental pathway that
guides your presentation seamlessly from one topic to the next.
But how do we apply this in practice?
Start by breaking down your presentation into main themes or ideas, each represented by a room or area
in your mental map.
For instance, the introduction might be your front door, setting the stage for what's to come as you
move through your house.
Each room or space brings a new topic to light, with details and subpoints represented by furniture
or objects within those rooms.
To enhance this technique, incorporate vivid imagery and emotions into your mental map.
The more unique and emotionally charged your associations, the more likely you are to remember them.
If you're discussing innovation, imagine an electric spark lighting up your living room.
For a segment on teamwork, picture your dining room filled with friends and family working together
to prepare a meal.
These vivid emotional connections anchor each point in your memory, making it easier to recall your
presentation flow without notes.
Another crucial aspect of mastering slide order memorization is practice.
Rehearse your presentation aloud, walking through your mental map repeatedly.
This not only solidifies your memory of the slide order, but also helps you refine your delivery,
making your speech more engaging and natural.
As you become more comfortable with mental mapping, challenge yourself to add layers of complexity.
Include transitions between rooms or slides that weave your points together into a cohesive narrative.
This not only aids in memorization, but also enhances the flow of your presentation, making it more
compelling for your audience.
In conclusion, memorizing your slide order doesn't have to be a daunting task.
By employing mental mapping, vivid imagery, and regular practice, you can deliver presentations with
ease without ever needing to glance at your notes.
This approach not only improves your memory, but also transforms your presentations into engaging,
memorable experiences for your audience.
Embrace these techniques and watch as you captivate the room, speaking with authority and authenticity.
Note free.

--- The Power of Pausing for Effect ---

Effective communication is not just about what you say, but also how you say it.
Today we delve into the art of pausing.
A powerful tool in the arsenal of public speaking, pausing for effect can transform a good presentation
into an unforgettable one.
It allows your audience to digest complex information, builds anticipation, and emphasizes key points.
Let's start by understanding the strategic use of pauses.
When you pause before a significant statement, you create a sense of importance around what's coming
next.
This technique grabs the audience's attention and makes them more receptive to your message.
For example, consider the difference in impact between rushing through a presentation and strategically
inserting pauses before crucial points.
The latter approach not only aids in comprehension, but also adds a layer of sophistication to your
delivery.
Pausing also plays a crucial role in managing the pace of your presentation.
A well-timed pause gives the audience a moment to reflect on what has been said, connecting the dots
in their minds.
This is particularly useful when presenting complex or technical information by breaking down the content
into digestible chunks, separated by pauses.
You enhance understanding and retention.
Moreover, the power of pausing extends to the speaker's Speakers benefit.
It provides a moment to breathe, gather your thoughts and assess the audience's reaction.
This can be invaluable in maintaining composure and confidence, especially during high stakes presentations.
Consider the impact of pausing in famous speeches.
For instance, Martin Luther King Jr.
I Have a Dream speech is punctuated with deliberate pauses that amplify the emotional resonance of his
words.
These pauses allowed his message to resonate deeply, creating a lasting impact on his audience and
the world.
In practice, mastering the art of pausing requires mindfulness and rehearsal.
Start by identifying key points in your presentation where a pause could amplify the message.
Experiment with different lengths of pauses to see what works best for each point.
Remember, the goal is to enhance understanding, not to disrupt the flow of your speech.
In conclusion, pausing for effect is a subtle yet powerful technique that can elevate your public speaking.
It enhances comprehension, adds emphasis, and allows you to connect more deeply with your audience.
Like any skill, it takes practice to perfect, but the rewards are well worth the effort.
By incorporating strategic pauses into your presentations, you can communicate more effectively, leaving
a lasting impression on your audience.

--- Varying Your Tone for Greater Impact ---

What makes a presentation truly unforgettable.
It's not just the content, but how it's delivered.
Today, we delve into the art of varying your tone to captivate and engage your audience, transforming
your speech from monotonous to memorable.
The human voice is a powerful tool.
It can express a multitude of emotions and ideas, often more so than the words themselves.
By mastering tone variation, you can guide your audience through your presentation, emphasizing key
points and making the message stick.
First, let's understand what we mean by tone.
Tone in speaking refers to the vocal quality that conveys emotions and attitudes.
It's how you say something rather than what you say.
A monotone delivery can make even the most exciting topics seem dull, whereas a dynamic tone can bring
a story to life even if the content is relatively mundane.
So how can you vary your tone effectively?
Start by identifying the emotional core of what you're presenting.
Is it a call to action?
A heartwarming story, an urgent warning?
Your tone should match the message.
For instance, a call to action benefits from a tone of enthusiasm and urgency.
While a heartwarming story might call for a softer, more reflective tone.
Practice is key.
Work on your presentation, focusing on the parts where your tone can highlight the message.
Use a mirror or record yourself to become more aware of your tone and how it changes.
Notice how your tone affects the delivery of different parts of your presentation.
Incorporate pauses.
A well-placed pause can give your audience time to absorb what you've said, and it can also create
emphasis, making your next point more impactful.
Pauses are a powerful tool when combined with a change in tone, signaling to your audience that something
important is coming.
Finally, let's talk about authenticity.
Varying your tone doesn't mean you should sound artificial or like you're playing a role.
The goal is to enhance your natural speaking style.
Making your presentation more engaging and effective.
Your audience can tell when you're being genuine, and authenticity always makes a stronger connection.
In conclusion, varying your tone is a vital skill in making your presentations more engaging and memorable.
By aligning your tone with your message, practicing your delivery, using pauses effectively, and
maintaining authenticity, you can elevate your public speaking and leave a lasting impression on your
audience.
Remember, it's not just what you say, but how you say it that captures hearts and minds.

--- Mastering the Art of Impromptu Speaking ---

Effective communication is not just about what you say, but how you say it.
Today we'll dive into the art of persuasion in public speaking, a skill that can transform the impact
of your presentations and speeches.
Persuasion is the ability to influence your audience's beliefs, attitudes, intentions, motivations,
or behaviors through your words and delivery.
It's a powerful tool in the hands of a skilled speaker.
To begin, let's understand the three pillars of persuasion identified by Aristotle ethos, pathos,
and logos.
Ethos refers to the credibility or ethical appeal of the speaker.
This means establishing yourself as trustworthy and authoritative on your topic.
You can achieve this by sharing your experience, qualifications and demonstrating a clear, unbiased
understanding of your subject.
Pathos, on the other hand, appeals to the audience's emotions.
It's about connecting with them on a personal level, using stories, anecdotes and expressive language
that resonates with their feelings and values.
Effective use of pathos can make your message more memorable and impactful.
Lastly, logos is the appeal to logic and reason.
This involves presenting clear, rational arguments supported by facts, statistics, and logical reasoning.
Your aim here is to construct a compelling case that your audience can understand and accept, based
on its merit.
Now, how do we blend these elements into our public speaking?
Start with a strong opening that establishes your credibility ethos and engages your audience's emotions.
Pathos.
This could be a personal story related to your topic, a surprising statistic, or a thought provoking
question.
As you move into the body of your speech, focus on building your argument logos with clear, concise
points.
Use evidence and examples to support your claims and explain how your message aligns with your audience's
needs and values.
Remember, persuasion is not about manipulation.
It's about convincing others to consider a new perspective or take action based on genuine understanding
and agreement.
Engage with your audience throughout your speech.
Ask rhetorical questions.
Invite them to imagine scenarios, and use inclusive language to make them feel part of your narrative.
This not only keeps their attention but also strengthens your pathos appeal.
In conclusion, mastering the art of persuasion in public speaking allows you to create powerful, impactful
messages that can influence thought and action by effectively employing ethos, pathos, and logos.
You can connect with your audience on a deeper level, earn their trust, and guide them towards your
intended outcome.
Remember, the key to persuasive speaking is not just in what you say, but in how you say it and how
well you connect with your listeners.

--- Developing a Conversational Style in Presentations ---

Effective communication is the cornerstone of any successful presentation.
Today, we delve into the art of developing a conversational style that can transform your presentations,
making them more engaging, relatable, and memorable.
Imagine speaking to your audience as if you're having a one on one conversation with a friend.
This approach not only captivates your listeners, but also builds trust and rapport.
Essential elements for impactful communication.
To begin, understanding your audience is crucial.
Tailor your language examples and anecdotes to match their interests and level of understanding.
This customization makes your presentation more relevant and accessible.
For instance, when addressing a group of healthcare professionals, incorporating medical jargon and
relevant case studies can make your message more resonant.
Next, the power of storytelling cannot be overstated.
Stories are the universal language of the human experience, capable of conveying complex ideas in an
understandable and emotionally engaging way.
Incorporate personal anecdotes or historical tales that align with your message.
This technique not only humanizes you as the speaker, but also helps to anchor your points in the minds
of your audience.
Another key aspect is the use of questions.
Posing rhetorical or direct questions engages the audience's minds, prompting them to think and reflect.
This interactive element transforms passive listeners into active participants, making your presentation
a two way conversation.
Furthermore, mastering the art of pausing and emphasis adds depth to your conversational style.
Strategic pauses allow your audience to absorb and reflect on what you've said.
Enhancing understanding and retention.
Emphasizing certain words or phrases can highlight key points, making your message more impactful.
Lastly, practice is paramount.
The more you rehearse your presentation in a conversational tone, the more natural it will become.
Record yourself, listen to the playback and adjust your pacing, tone, and emphasis as needed.
Over time, you'll find your unique style that feels both authentic and engaging.
In conclusion, developing a conversational style and presentations is not just about improving your
speaking skills, it's about transforming the way you connect with your audience by being audience centric,
leveraging storytelling, engaging with questions, utilizing pauses and emphasis, and practicing diligently.
You can deliver presentations that are not only informative, but also profoundly engaging and memorable.
Embrace these strategies to elevate your communication and leave a lasting impression on your listeners.

--- Techniques for Emphasizing Key Points Verbally ---

What makes a presentation unforgettable.
It's the speaker's ability to emphasize key points, verbally making the message resonate long after
the talk has ended.
Today, we delve into the art of verbal emphasis, a skill crucial for anyone looking to make an impact
without relying on notes or prompts.
The secret lies in a combination of tone, pacing and strategic pauses, which, when mastered, can
transform a good presentation into a great one.
Firstly, let's talk about tone.
The tone of your voice can signal to your audience what's important.
By shifting from a conversational tone to a more serious or excited one, you can highlight key messages.
It's like underlining a sentence in a book.
It makes the audience pay extra attention to what's being said.
Pacing plays a pivotal role as well.
Speeding up can convey enthusiasm and passion, but when you slow down, it's like putting up a sign
that says pay attention.
This is important.
This change in speed can help emphasize the significance of what you're about to say, ensuring it sticks
with your audience.
Strategic pauses are perhaps the most powerful tool in your verbal emphasis toolkit.
A well-timed pause not only grabs attention, but also gives the audience a moment to digest the information.
It's the silence that can make your words louder and more impactful.
Let's consider a real world example.
Imagine a speaker discussing the impacts of climate change.
When they reach a crucial point, say, the dramatic increase in global temperatures.
A slight pause followed by a change in tone can make the statistics stand out.
Ensuring it's the point listeners remember.
In conclusion, mastering the art of emphasizing key points verbally is essential for delivering powerful,
memorable presentations without relying on notes.
By skillfully adjusting your tone, pacing, and utilizing strategic pauses, you can highlight your
main messages, making sure they resonate with your audience.
Remember, it's not just what you say, but how you say it that can turn your presentation into an unforgettable
experience.

--- Importance of Body Language in Presentations ---

Understanding the role of body language in presentations is crucial for anyone looking to enhance their
public speaking skills.
Body language, often considered the unspoken element of communication, plays a significant role in
how your message is received and interpreted by your audience.
It's not just about what you say, but how you say it.
When we talk about body language, we're referring to the non-verbal signals we use to communicate,
including our facial expressions, gestures, posture, and eye contact.
These elements can either reinforce or contradict the words we're using, making it essential to align
our body language with our spoken message for maximum impact.
Let's start with facial expressions.
A genuine smile, for example, can convey warmth and make the audience feel more connected to the speaker.
On the other hand, a furrowed brow might indicate confusion or concern, which could make the audience
uneasy.
Being aware of your facial expressions and using them appropriately can significantly enhance your connection
with your audience.
Moving on to gestures, they can be a powerful tool to emphasize key points or convey enthusiasm.
However, it's important to use them sparingly and purposefully.
Overusing gestures or using them inappropriately can be distracting and may dilute the impact of your
message.
Posture is another critical aspect of body language.
Standing upright with shoulders back and feet firmly planted conveys confidence and authority.
In contrast, slouching or leaning too much on one side can make a speaker appear uninterested or less
confident.
Good posture not only affects how the audience perceives you, but also how you feel about yourself,
which can influence your overall performance.
Eye contact is perhaps one of the most powerful tools in a speaker's arsenal.
Making eye contact with different members of the audience creates a sense of engagement and personal
connection.
It shows that you are confident in your message and interested in the audience's reaction.
However, it's important to strike the right balance.
Too little eye contact can make you seem disengaged, while too much can be perceived as aggressive.
In conclusion, mastering body language is a key aspect of delivering effective presentations.
By being aware of and intentionally using facial expressions, gestures, posture, and eye contact,
speakers can significantly enhance their ability to connect with their audience and convey their message
with clarity and impact.
Remember, effective communication is not just about the words you choose.
It's also about how you present yourself while delivering those words.

--- Facial Expressions that Convey Confidence ---

Effective communication is more than just the words we say.
It's how we say them.
And a significant part of that is our facial expressions.
Today we're diving into how facial expressions can convey confidence and leave a lasting impression
on your audience.
Whether you're addressing a boardroom, a classroom, or a large audience at a conference, let's start
with the power of a genuine smile.
A smile is universal and disarming, creating an immediate connection with your audience.
It signals confidence and warmth, making your listeners more receptive to your message.
However, the key here is authenticity.
A forced smile can appear insincere, so it's crucial to find a genuine reason to smile as you present.
Next, consider the role of eye contact.
Maintaining steady eye contact conveys confidence and shows that you are fully engaged with your audience.
It demonstrates that you believe in what you're saying and that you're present in the moment.
But remember, there's a balance to be struck.
Too much eye contact can be intimidating, while too little can make you seem disinterested or nervous.
Aim for a natural engagement, shifting your focus gently across different sections of your audience
to create a sense of inclusion.
Now let's talk about the eyebrows.
Raised eyebrows can signal surprise or interest, which can be effective when you're introducing a new
concept or asking a rhetorical question.
However, overuse can make you seem disbelieving or skeptical, so use this expression judiciously.
Another aspect to consider is your forehead.
A relaxed forehead conveys calmness and assurance, while a furrowed brow can indicate concern, confusion,
or concentration.
Be mindful of this during your presentation, especially when discussing complex or challenging topics.
You want to appear approachable and understanding, not worried or perplexed.
Lastly, the overall openness of your face plays a crucial role.
An open, relaxed facial expression invites trust and shows confidence.
It tells your audience that you're comfortable with the material and confident in your delivery.
On the other hand, a tense or closed off facial expression can create a barrier between you and your
listeners.
In conclusion, your facial expressions are a powerful tool in conveying confidence and connecting with
your audience.
A genuine smile, appropriate eye contact, thoughtful use of eyebrows, a relaxed forehead, and an
open facial expression can all work together to enhance your message and engage your listeners.
Remember, the goal is to be authentic and present, allowing your natural confidence to shine through.
By mastering these nonverbal cues, you'll be well on your way to delivering impactful, memorable presentations
without relying on notes.

--- Effective Use of Gestures for Emphasis ---

Effective use of gestures can significantly enhance your presentation, making your message more engaging
and memorable.
Today, we'll delve into how strategic gestures can emphasize your points and help you connect with
your audience on a deeper level.
When we speak, our words carry the content, but our body language conveys our confidence and passion.
Gestures are a powerful tool in this non-verbal arsenal.
They can underscore the importance of your ideas, illustrate concepts, and even convey emotions that
words alone might not fully capture.
But how do we use gestures effectively?
First, it's crucial to match your gestures with your content.
If you're discussing growth, a simple upward movement can visually represent this concept.
This alignment between what you say and how you move reinforces your message, making it clearer and
more impactful.
Second, consider the timing of your gestures.
Just as a well-timed pause can add weight to your words, a gesture introduced at the right moment can
significantly amplify your message.
It's about creating a rhythm between your verbal and nonverbal communication, where gestures become
a natural extension of your words.
Third, be mindful of the scale of your gestures.
In a large room.
Broader gestures ensure visibility and effectiveness.
Conversely, in a more intimate setting, smaller that more subtle movements can be just as powerful.
The key is to adapt your gesturing to the environment to maintain the connection with your audience.
However, it's also important to avoid over gesturing.
Excessive or irrelevant movements can distract from your message rather than enhance it.
The goal is to find a balance where your gestures feel natural and purposeful.
Practicing your gestures is as crucial as rehearsing your speech in front of a mirror, with friends
or on video.
Observe how your movements complement your words.
Seek feedback and refine your approach.
Remember, the most effective gestures are those that feel authentic to you and your style of communication.
In conclusion, mastering the art of gesturing can transform your presentations.
It's not just about what you say, but how you say it.
By aligning your gestures with your message, timing them effectively, and adapting to your environment,
you can enhance your communication, making your presentations more dynamic, engaging, and memorable.
Let your body speak as eloquently as your words and watch the impact of your presentations soar.

--- Managing Your Space: Movement as a Tool ---

In today's session, we'll dive into the art of managing your space effectively during presentations
and how movement can be a powerful tool to keep your audience engaged.
Imagine you're standing in front of a room full of people ready to deliver your message.
How you move and position yourself can significantly impact the delivery and reception of your message.
Movement, when used wisely, can enhance your connection with the audience.
Emphasize key points and make your presentation more dynamic.
Firstly, let's talk about the importance of purposeful movement.
Random pacing or unnecessary movements can be distracting and may signal nervousness.
Instead, every move you make should serve a purpose.
For example, moving closer to the audience can create a sense of intimacy and engagement, particularly
when sharing personal stories or key takeaways.
On the other hand, stepping back can signal a transition or the introduction of a new idea.
Moreover, the use of gestures can greatly enhance your message.
Gestures can help illustrate concepts.
Add emphasis to points and express your enthusiasm.
However, it's crucial to ensure that your gestures are natural and match the tone of your message.
Overdoing it or using gestures that don't align with what you're saying, can confuse your audience
or detract from your credibility.
Another aspect to consider is the use of space.
The space you're presenting in can be thought of as a stage.
How you navigate this space can influence the audience's focus.
For instance, moving across the stage can help you engage with different parts of the audience, making
everyone feel included.
It's also an effective way to transition between topics, as physical movement can mirror the mental
shift from one idea to another.
Incorporating movement into your presentations also requires awareness of your body language.
Open and confident body language not only makes you appear more authoritative, but also makes you more
relatable to your audience.
Conversely, closed off body language such as crossed arms or avoiding eye contact can create a barrier
between you and your listeners to effectively manage your space and use movement as a tool.
Practice is key.
Rehearse your presentation in the actual space if possible, or at least visualize the setup.
Plan your movements and gestures, but be prepared to adapt based on the audience's response and interaction.
The goal is to appear confident, natural, and engaging, making your message more impactful.
In conclusion, mastering the art of movement and space management can elevate your presentation skills
to a new level by moving purposefully, using gestures effectively, navigating your space wisely,
and maintaining open body language.
You can create a dynamic and memorable presentation experience.
Remember, how you present is just as important as what you present.
Embrace movement as a tool and watch your presentations transform from good to great.

--- Eye Contact: Connecting with Your Audience ---

What makes a presentation truly memorable.
It's the genuine connection between the speaker and the audience.
Often achieved through effective eye contact.
Today we delve into the art of making eye contact a critical skill for engaging your audience and conveying
your message with impact.
Eye contact is more than just a visual connection.
It's the bridge that fosters trust, credibility, and rapport between you and your listeners.
Let's start by understanding the importance of eye contact.
It's a powerful tool that, when used correctly, can transform your presentation from a monologue into
a dynamic conversation.
Eye contact helps to humanize your interaction, making your audience feel acknowledged and involved.
It signals confidence and helps to convey your enthusiasm for the subject matter, making your presentation
more persuasive and compelling.
However, mastering eye contact is not without its challenges.
Too little eye contact can make you seem disinterested or unprepared, Aired.
While too much can intimidate or discomfort your audience.
The key is to find a balance to distribute your gaze across the audience in a way that includes everyone
in the conversation.
Imagine your eye contact as a gentle brush, not a piercing stare, moving smoothly from one listener
to another, making each person feel as if you're speaking directly to them.
One effective technique is the five second rule.
When you make eye contact with someone, hold it for five seconds or roughly the length of a sentence
or phrase.
This duration is long enough to establish a connection without causing discomfort.
Then, smoothly transition your gaze to another person and repeat.
This method ensures that you engage different sections of your audience, making your presentation feel
more inclusive.
Another strategy involves the use of mental mapping.
Before your presentation, visualize the room and mentally divide it into sections.
During your talk, make sure to direct your gaze to each of these sections in turn.
This ensures that no part of the audience feels neglected.
Enhancing the overall impact of your message.
Practicing eye contact can be as simple as rehearsing in front of a mirror, or with friends and family,
observing their reactions to gauge the effectiveness of your gaze.
Recording your practice sessions can also provide valuable insights, allowing you to analyze your eye
contact and adjust as necessary.
In conclusion, eye contact is a crucial component of effective presentation skills.
It has the power to transform your speech into a compelling dialogue with your audience, building trust,
credibility, and engagement by mastering the art of eye contact.
You equip yourself with a vital tool in your presentation arsenal, one that will significantly enhance
your ability to communicate your message with confidence and impact.
Remember, the eyes are not only a mirror to the soul, but also a powerful conduit for your message.

--- You've Achieved 25% >> Let's Celebrate Your Progress And Keep Going To 50% ---

Well done.
You are at 25%.
You're a quarter of the way through.
You've taken action, you're making progress and well done.
I want to encourage you and celebrate your progress.
Remember, I want you to succeed and I want you to continue taking action.
Work towards that 50% milestone and I'll check in with you then.
And let's celebrate your progress.
So keep going and I'll chat to you soon.

--- Pre-Presentation Rituals to Ease Anxiety ---

Facing an audience can be daunting, even for seasoned speakers.
The key to delivering a powerful presentation without relying on notes lies in mastering pre presentation
rituals to ease anxiety.
Let's dive into strategies that can transform your public speaking experience.
First, understand the power of visualization.
Before stepping onto the stage, take a moment to visualize your success.
Picture yourself delivering your presentation confidently, engaging with your audience, and receiving
positive feedback.
This mental rehearsal primes your brain for a successful performance.
Breathing techniques play a crucial role in managing pre presentation nerves.
Practice deep diaphragmatic breathing to calm your mind and body.
A simple technique involves inhaling slowly for a count of four, holding your breath for a count of
seven, and exhaling for a count of eight.
This not only reduces anxiety, but also improves voice projection and stamina.
Physical warm ups can be just as beneficial as mental preparation.
Engage in light stretching or a brief walk to release tension in your body.
Facial exercises and tongue twisters can loosen your jaw and improve articulation, making your speech
more fluid and engaging.
Creating a connection with your audience before you begin speaking can also alleviate anxiety.
Arrive early to mingle with attendees or if speaking virtually, engage with your audience through pre-session
chats.
Establishing rapport early on makes the audience more receptive and creates a supportive environment
for your presentation.
Lastly, embrace the power of positive affirmations.
Remind yourself of your expertise and the value you bring to your audience.
Positive self-talk can boost your confidence and shift your focus from fear to the message you want
to convey.
In summary, pre presentation rituals are essential for easing anxiety and enhancing your performance.
Visualization, breathing techniques, physical warm ups, audience engagement and positive affirmations
are powerful tools in your public speaking arsenal.
Incorporate these strategies into your routine to deliver impactful, note free presentations with confidence
and ease.

--- Breathing Techniques for Speaking Under Pressure ---

Effective communication is the cornerstone of success in any professional setting.
But the fear of public speaking can hinder even the most seasoned professionals.
Today, we're diving into the world of breathing techniques that can help you speak under pressure,
ensuring your message is delivered with clarity and confidence.
Breathing is something we do every day without much thought.
But when it comes to speaking in front of an audience, the way we breathe can significantly impact
our performance.
Proper breathing techniques can calm our nerves, steady our voice, and help us maintain a strong presence.
Let's explore how you can harness the power of breath to enhance your public speaking skills.
First, let's understand why breathing correctly is so crucial.
When we're nervous, our breathing tends to become shallow and rapid, which can lead to a lack of oxygen
and a feeling of panic.
This state not only affects our ability to think clearly, but also makes our voice sound weak or shaky.
By learning to control our breath.
We can remain calm and composed even under pressure.
One effective technique is diaphragmatic breathing, also known as belly breathing.
This involves breathing deeply into your diaphragm, allowing your stomach to expand as you inhale and
contract as you exhale.
This type of breathing is powerful because it increases the amount of oxygen that goes into your bloodstream,
helping to reduce stress and anxiety.
To practice diaphragmatic breathing, find a comfortable seated position and place one hand on your
chest and the other on your belly as you breathe in slowly through your nose.
Focus on making your belly rise higher than your chest.
Then exhale slowly through your mouth, feeling your belly fall.
Practice this technique for a few minutes each day, and especially before a speaking engagement, to
help you feel more centered and in control.
Another helpful technique is the 478 method, which involves breathing in for four seconds, holding
your breath for seven seconds, and exhaling for eight seconds.
This method is particularly effective for calming nerves quickly.
It can be practiced in any setting, whether you're about to step onto a stage or preparing to speak
in a meeting.
Incorporating these breathing techniques into your daily routine can transform your public speaking
experience by mastering the art of breath control, you'll find that speaking under pressure becomes
less daunting.
You'll be able to deliver your message with a steady, confident voice and make a lasting impression
on your audience.
In conclusion, breathing techniques are a powerful tool for anyone looking to improve their public
speaking skills by practicing diaphragmatic breathing and the 478 method.
You can enhance your ability to speak with confidence and authority no matter the setting.
Remember, the key to success in public speaking lies not just in what you say, but in how you say
it.
Control your breath and you'll control your presentation, captivating your audience from start to finish.

--- Turning Nerves into Positive Energy ---

What transforms an ordinary presentation into a powerful, memorable experience.
It's the speaker's ability to connect with the audience on a personal level, sharing stories and insights
without the crutch of notes or slides.
Today, we're diving deep into the art of speaking without reading from notes, a skill that sets apart
competent speakers from truly captivating ones.
Imagine stepping onto the stage.
Your mind clear, your heart racing with excitement rather than fear.
This is not just a dream.
It's a skill that can be honed with practice and understanding.
The first step is recognizing that nerves are not your enemy.
In fact, they are a source of energy that, when harnessed correctly, can add passion and dynamism
to your delivery.
Think of nervous energy as a powerful river.
Left unchecked, it can overwhelm and steer you off course.
But channel it through the right pathways and it becomes a force that propels you forward, infusing
your words with intensity and your gestures with purpose.
To speak effectively without notes, we must first understand the role of preparation.
This doesn't mean memorizing your speech word for word.
A common misconception.
Instead, focus on internalizing the core message and structure of your presentation.
Create mental maps that guide you through each segment of your talk, using vivid imagery and emotional
connections to anchor each point in your memory.
This method not only aids in recall, but also allows for flexibility and spontaneity in your delivery,
making your presentation feel more organic and engaging.
Another key element is the practice of mindfulness and presence.
Being fully present in the moment helps to mitigate anxiety and enhances your connection with the audience.
It allows you to read the room, adjust your pacing, and respond to feedback in real time.
Techniques such as deep breathing, visualization, and positive affirmations can be invaluable tools
in achieving a state of calm and focus before taking the stage.
But what about when things don't go as planned?
The reality is, even the most experienced speakers encounter unexpected challenges.
The secret lies in your response.
Embrace imperfections and use them as opportunities to showcase your authenticity and adaptability.
A forgotten line or a technical glitch can be transformed into a moment of humor or a poignant pause,
endearing you further to your audience.
In conclusion, speaking without notes is not just about memorization or the absence of visual aids.
It's about developing a deep connection with your material.
Mastering the art of storytelling and embracing your authentic self on stage.
This approach not only enhances your presentation skills, but also builds your confidence and ability
to engage with audiences on a deeper level.
Remember, the goal is not perfection, but connection.
By focusing on these principles, you can transform your public speaking experiences into powerful,
impactful moments that resonate long after you've left the stage.

--- Staying Present and Mindful Throughout the Presentation ---

In today's fast paced world, the ability to communicate effectively is more crucial than ever, especially
when it comes to public speaking.
One of the most powerful skills a speaker can possess is the ability to deliver a presentation without
relying on notes.
This not only enhances the speaker's credibility, but also fosters a deeper connection with the audience.
Let's dive into the strategies that can transform your public speaking skills and enable you to speak
confidently without the crutch of notes.
Firstly, understanding the core of your message is pivotal.
Before you even think about stepping onto the stage, you need to internalize your topic.
This doesn't mean memorizing your speech word for word.
Rather, it's about grasping the essence of what you want to communicate.
A helpful technique is to break down your message into key points or sections.
Think of your presentation as a journey where each point is a destination along the way.
This mental mapping not only aids in memorization, but also ensures a logical flow of ideas.
Visualization is another powerful tool in your arsenal.
Imagine yourself delivering your speech confidently and visualizing the sequence of your key points.
This practice not only boosts your memory, but also your confidence.
By repeatedly visualizing success, you condition your mind for a positive outcome, reducing anxiety
and enhancing performance.
Practice, as they say, makes perfect.
However, when practicing for a note free presentation, the focus should be on mastering the flow rather
than memorizing the script.
Engage in practice sessions where you speak out loud, ideally in a setting that simulates the actual
presentation environment.
This could mean standing up using a microphone or even dressing in your presentation attire.
Such rehearsals are invaluable as they help solidify your memory of the material and refine your delivery.
Engaging with your audience is another critical aspect of effective public speaking.
Eye contact, for instance, can significantly impact how your message is received.
When you're not buried in your notes, you have the freedom to connect with your audience, observe
their reactions, and adjust your delivery accordingly.
This dynamic interaction not only makes your presentation more engaging, but also more memorable for
your audience.
Lastly, embracing the power of storytelling can elevate your presentation to new heights.
Stories are not only easier to remember, but also more relatable to your audience.
Incorporating personal anecdotes or relevant case studies can help illustrate your points more vividly.
Making your message stick.
In conclusion, speaking without notes is an art that combines thorough preparation with the ability
to be present and connect with your audience by internalizing your message, practicing visualization
and delivery, engaging with your audience, and harnessing the power of storytelling, you can deliver
impactful presentations that resonate long after you've left the stage.
Remember, the goal is not just to speak without notes, but to do so in a way that captivates and inspires
your audience.
Your.

--- Opening with Impact: Capturing Attention Immediately ---

Effective communication is not just about what you say, but how you say it.
In today's lesson, we'll dive into the art of persuasive speaking, focusing on techniques that help
you influence and engage your audience.
Persuasive speaking is a skill that combines the power of language with the art of persuasion to drive,
change, inspire action, and influence decisions.
Whether you're addressing a boardroom, rallying a team, or presenting at a conference, mastering
this skill can set you apart as a leader and a communicator.
To begin, let's understand the core principles of persuasive speaking.
It starts with ethos, pathos, and logos.
Ethos refers to the credibility of the speaker.
It's about establishing trust and authority in your subject matter.
Pathos, on the other hand, appeals to the emotions of the audience.
It's about connecting on a human level, using stories, anecdotes, and compelling language.
Lastly, logos appeals to logic and reason using data, facts, and rational arguments to make your
case.
Now, how do we weave these elements into our speaking?
First, know your audience.
Understanding who you are speaking to allows you to tailor your message in a way that resonates with
them.
Are they experts in the field or are they new to the topic?
What are their interests?
Their fears?
Their desires?
Answering these questions can help you craft a message that hits home.
Next, structure your speech for impact.
Start with a strong opening that grabs attention.
Use a surprising fact, a provocative question, or a powerful quote to draw your audience in.
From there, build your case logically, layering ethos, pathos, and logos throughout.
Use stories to illustrate your points, data to back them up, and rhetorical questions to engage the
audience's minds.
Another key technique is the rule of three.
Our brains are wired to remember information in threes when making a point.
Try to provide three reasons three examples or three benefits.
This not only makes your argument more memorable, but also more persuasive.
Moreover, practice the art of nonverbal non-verbal communication.
Your body language, facial expressions and tone of voice can all reinforce your message or undermine
it.
Make eye contact to build rapport.
Use gestures to emphasize points and modulate your voice to maintain interest.
Remember how you say something can be as important as what you say.
Finally, end with a strong call to action.
What do you want your audience to do, think or feel after your speech?
Be clear and concise in your closing, summarizing your key points and leaving them with a compelling
reason to act.
In conclusion, persuasive speaking is a powerful tool in the communicators arsenal by combining the
principles of ethos, pathos, and logos with a deep understanding of your audience, a structured approach
to your speech, and effective nonverbal cues you can influence decisions, drive change, and inspire
action.
Remember, the goal is not just to speak, but to speak in a way that moves people.
With practice and dedication, you can master the art of persuasive speaking and leave a lasting impact
on your audience.

--- Interactive Techniques to Keep the Audience Involved ---

Engaging your audience is a critical aspect of delivering a memorable presentation.
Today, we're diving into interactive techniques that keep your audience involved and ensure your message
resonates long after you've left the stage.
Let's start with a powerful tool in your arsenal storytelling.
Stories are not just for children.
They have the power to captivate adults by creating emotional connections and making complex concepts
relatable.
When you share a story, you invite your audience on a journey with you, making your presentation a
shared experience rather than a one sided lecture.
Next, let's talk about questions.
Not just any questions, but thought provoking ones that encourage your audience to think deeply about
the topic.
By posing questions throughout your presentation, you not only keep the audience engaged, but also
promote active participation.
This technique transforms passive listeners into active participants, creating a dynamic and interactive
environment.
Another effective strategy is the use of visuals.
In our digital age, visuals are more powerful than ever.
They can simplify complex information, evoke emotions, and sustain attention.
Whether it's a striking image, an infographic, or a short video clip, visuals can enhance understanding
and retention of your message.
Remember, a picture is worth a thousand words and in presentations they are invaluable.
Live demonstrations or simulations are also fantastic ways to engage your audience.
They provide a real world application of your topic, making your presentation more tangible and understandable.
Demonstrations not only break up the monotony of a presentation, but also provide a memorable moment
that audiences are likely to remember.
Lastly, incorporating audience interaction is key.
This could be through live polls, Q&amp;A sessions, or group discussions.
Technology has made it easier than ever to include these elements in your presentations.
With many platforms offering interactive features, these interactions not only keep your audience engaged,
but also give you immediate feedback on their understanding and interest in your topic.
In conclusion, keeping your audience involved is crucial for a successful presentation by weaving together
storytelling.
Thought provoking questions, compelling visuals, live demonstrations, and audience interaction,
you create a rich, engaging, and memorable experience.
Remember, the goal is not just to speak, but to connect.
Not just to inform, but to inspire.
Engage your audience and they will listen, remember and act upon your message.

--- Using Humor Effectively Without Losing Professionalism ---

Incorporating humor into professional presentations can transform a standard speech into a memorable
and engaging experience for your audience.
But how do you balance humor with maintaining professionalism?
Let's dive into the art of using humor effectively without crossing the line.
To begin, understanding your audience is crucial.
Humor that resonates well with one group may not work for another.
Tailoring your jokes or humorous anecdotes to the interests, age group and professional background
of your audience increases the likelihood of a positive reception.
It's about connecting with them on their level, making them feel understood and appreciated.
Next, timing and relevance play significant roles.
A well-timed joke can ease tension and draw your audience in, but timing is everything.
The key is to integrate humor seamlessly into your presentation, ensuring it supports your message
rather than detracts from it.
Each humorous element should have a purpose, whether it's to illustrate a point, highlight a contrast,
or simply give the audience a moment to relax.
Authenticity cannot be overstated.
When you share a personal story or a lighthearted observation that genuinely reflects your personality,
it builds trust with your audience.
People are more likely to engage with and remember your message when they see the person behind the
words.
It's not just about making them laugh, it's about making them see the world from your perspective,
even if just for a moment.
However, caution is advised avoid controversial topics, sensitive subjects, and anything that could
be interpreted as offensive.
The goal of humor is to unite your audience, not divide it.
Stick to lighthearted, universally relatable topics that encourage a shared laugh without making anyone
feel uncomfortable or alienated.
Incorporating humor also means being prepared for varied reactions.
Not every attempt at humor will land as expected, and that's okay.
The ability to gracefully move on without dwelling on a joke that didn't receive the anticipated response
demonstrates professionalism and confidence.
In summary, when used thoughtfully, humor can be a powerful tool in professional presentations.
It can break down barriers, foster a connection with your audience, and make your message more memorable.
By understanding your audience, choosing the right timing, being authentic, exercising caution,
and preparing for any outcome, you can effectively incorporate humor into your presentations without
losing an ounce of professionalism.
Remember, the goal is not just to inform, but to engage and inspire your audience.
Making your presentation an experience they won't soon forget.

--- Real-Time Audience Analysis and Adaptation ---

Understanding the nuances of real time audience analysis and adaptation is crucial for any speaker aiming
to deliver a powerful, note free presentation.
Today, we dive into the strategies that can help you read your audience and adjust your delivery on
the fly, ensuring your message hits home every time.
When you're standing in front of an audience, your primary goal is to connect with them to make your
message resonate on a personal level.
This connection is the heart of effective communication, but it's not always easy to establish, especially
without the crutch of notes.
The key lies in your ability to analyze your audience in real time and adapt your presentation accordingly.
First, let's talk about the signs you should be looking for.
Body language.
Facial expressions and engagement levels are your immediate feedback loop.
Are your listeners leaning forward, nodding, and maintaining eye contact, or are they slumped back,
checking their phones and avoiding eye contact?
These signals can tell you a lot about how well your message is being received, but reading the room
is just the first step.
The real skill lies in adapting your presentation without losing your train of thought or your message's
core.
This is where the art of improvisation comes into play.
If you sense that you're losing your audience, don't be afraid to switch gears.
Maybe that means skipping ahead to a more engaging part of your presentation, injecting a personal
story to recapture their attention, or even posing a direct question to the audience to foster interaction.
Effective adaptation also means being prepared to dive deeper into topics that are resonating well.
If you notice heightened interest or engagement around a particular point, take that as a cue to expand
on that topic.
This doesn't mean you should go off on a tangent, but rather allow room for flexibility in how you
prioritize your content based on audience feedback.
Another critical aspect of real time adaptation is pacing.
Every audience has its own rhythm, and as a speaker you need to tune into that rhythm.
Sometimes you might need to slow down to allow complex ideas to sink in, or perhaps speed up to inject
energy into the room.
The right pacing can make a significant difference in how well your audience absorbs and retains your
message.
Remember, the ultimate goal of any presentation is not just to inform, but to inspire and persuade.
To achieve that, you need to be more than just a speaker.
You need to be an empathetic communicator who can read the room and adapt in real time.
This skill set is what separates good speakers from great ones.
In conclusion, mastering real time audience analysis and adaptation is a powerful tool in your presentation
arsenal.
It allows you to connect with your audience on a deeper level, ensuring your message is not just heard,
but felt.
Practice these strategies and you'll find yourself delivering more impactful, engaging, and memorable
presentations, all without the need to glance down at your notes.

--- Closing with a Call to Action: Ensuring Message Retention ---

Effective communication is at the heart of every successful presentation.
Today, we're going to dive into one of the most critical components of impactful presentations, closing
with a call to action CTA to ensure message retention.
The ability to conclude with a compelling CTA can significantly influence your audience's response and
engagement with your message long after the presentation ends.
Let's start by understanding what a call to action truly is.
A call to action is a clear directive you give your audience, designed to prompt an immediate response
or encourage an ongoing interaction with your topic.
Its your final opportunity to motivate your audience towards a desired outcome, be it changing their
perspective, adopting a new practice, or engaging with a product or service.
Why is a strong CTA crucial?
It's simple.
Without a clear, persuasive CTA, your audience might leave inspired but directionless.
They may appreciate your presentation, but fail to take the next steps you hope for a well crafted
CTA.
Bridges the gap between inspiration and action.
Ensuring your message doesn't just resonate, but also results in tangible outcomes.
Now, how do you craft an effective call to action?
First, clarity is key.
Your CTA should be direct and straightforward, leaving no ambiguity about what you're asking of your
audience.
Whether it's signing up for a newsletter, implementing a new strategy, or joining a community initiative,
the action required should be clear and achievable.
Second, make it compelling.
Your CTA should resonate on an emotional level, tapping into the values, needs, or interests of your
audience.
Use persuasive language that speaks to the benefits of taking action, highlighting what's in it for
them.
This emotional connection can significantly boost the likelihood of your audience taking the step you're
advocating for.
Third, ensure relevance.
Your call to action should be a natural extension of your presentation directly related to the content
and objectives you've discussed.
This coherence reinforces the importance of the action and its significance in the context of your message.
Lastly, practice delivering your CTA with confidence and enthusiasm.
The energy and conviction in your voice can greatly influence your audience's response.
A lukewarm delivery can weaken the most compelling of messages, while a passionate appeal can elevate
even a simple request to a powerful call to action.
In conclusion, mastering the art of closing with a call to action is essential for anyone looking to
make their presentations more impactful and memorable by ensuring clarity, compelling relevance, and
delivering with confidence.
You can significantly enhance message retention and motivate your audience towards meaningful action.
Remember, the goal of any presentation is not just to inform or inspire, but to ignite change.
A well crafted call to action is the spark that can set that change in motion.

--- Structuring Stories for Maximum Impact ---

Effective communication is not just about what you say, but how you say it.
Today we're diving into the art of storytelling, a powerful technique that can transform your presentations
and captivate your audience.
Storytelling is not a new concept.
It's been the backbone of compelling narratives throughout history.
But how can we harness this age old practice in modern presentations to make an unforgettable impact?
Let's start with the structure of a story.
Every memorable story has a clear beginning, middle, and end.
In the beginning, set the scene and introduce the characters.
This is where you grab your audience's attention and get them invested in the story.
The middle is where the main action or conflict takes place.
It's the heart of your story, full of ups and downs that keep your audience engaged.
Finally, the end resolves the conflict and brings your story to a satisfying conclusion.
This structure isn't just for fictional tales.
It's equally effective in professional presentations.
By framing your message as a story, you make it more relatable and easier for your audience to remember.
But how do we apply this to a presentation?
Imagine you're discussing the importance of teamwork in the workplace.
Start with a personal anecdote or a hypothetical scenario that illustrates a team facing a challenge.
Describe the setting, the team members, and the obstacles they encounter.
This sets the stage and draws your audience in.
Then delve into the actions the team took to overcome these challenges, highlighting the strategies
and collaboration involved.
Finally, conclude with the outcome of their efforts, emphasizing the value of teamwork in achieving
success.
This narrative arc not only makes your presentation more engaging, but also reinforces your message
in a memorable way to make your stories even more impactful.
Focus on the emotional journey.
Emotions are the glue that binds your audience to your narrative.
Whether it's empathy, joy, or surprise, tapping into emotions can turn a good story into an unforgettable
one.
Use descriptive language to evoke feelings and create vivid images in the minds of your audience.
This emotional connection is what will leave a lasting impression long after your presentation ends.
Incorporating storytelling into your presentations requires practice and refinement.
Start by identifying the key message you want to convey, then brainstorm ways to turn that message
into a story.
Think about personal experiences, historical events, or hypothetical scenarios that illustrate your
point.
The more you practice weaving stories into your presentations, the more natural it will become.
In conclusion, storytelling is a powerful tool that can elevate your presentations from mundane to
memorable by structuring your message as a story, focusing on the emotional journey, and practicing
regularly.
You can engage your audience on a deeper level and leave a lasting impact.
Remember, the best presentations aren't just heard, they're felt.
So let's embrace the art of storytelling and transform the way we communicate.

--- Choosing Stories that Resonate with Your Audience ---

Understanding the psychology behind consumer choices is crucial for any business looking to thrive in
today's competitive market.
At the heart of this psychology is the concept of consumer behaviour, which explores why people make
the purchasing decisions they do.
This journey into consumer behaviour reveals that decisions are influenced by a complex blend of personal,
psychological and social factors.
For instance, personal factors such as age, income, and lifestyle play a significant role in shaping
preferences and purchasing habits.
A young professional might prioritize convenience and style, opting for the latest tech gadgets, while
a retired individual might value reliability and customer service, preferring products with a proven
track record.
Psychological factors, including perception, motivation, and beliefs also have a profound impact
on consumer choices.
A consumer's perception of a brand shaped by marketing campaigns and social media can significantly
influence their buying decision.
Motivation, whether driven by a need or a desire, pushes consumers towards products that they believe
will satisfy their needs, beliefs and attitudes often formed over time through experience and influence
from friends and family.
Further guide consumer behaviour.
Social factors such as family reference groups and social status cannot be overlooked.
The influence of family on purchasing decisions is profound, with family members playing different
roles in the buying process.
Reference groups, including friends and colleagues, provide a point of comparison and often influence
how consumers perceive products and brands.
Social status defined by one's position within a community or society, also affects consumer choices,
with individuals often making purchases that reflect their status or the status they aspire to.
The interplay between personal, psychological, and social factors makes consumer behavior a fascinating
and complex subject.
By understanding these influences, businesses can tailor their marketing strategies to meet the needs
and desires of their target audience, creating products and campaigns that resonate on a deeper level.
This understanding not only helps in attracting customers, but also in building brand loyalty and driving
long term success.
In summary, consumer behavior is shaped by a myriad of factors that go beyond simple needs and wants.
Personal experiences, psychological drivers, and social influences all play a critical role in the
decision making process for businesses.
Diving deep into the psychology of their consumers is not just beneficial.
It's essential for crafting strategies that connect, engage, and ultimately convert.

--- Bridging Stories and Technical Content ---

In today's fast paced world, the art of storytelling has emerged as a powerful tool to connect with
audiences on a deeper level, especially when it comes to presenting technical content.
The challenge many face is how to weave narratives into data heavy presentations effectively.
Let's dive into strategies that can transform your technical presentations into captivating stories.
Imagine you're at a conference.
Two speakers are scheduled to talk about the same complex topic, let's say blockchain technology.
The first speaker starts with definitions and data points, moving from one slide to the next, filled
with graphs and bullet points.
The audience tries to keep up, but soon their attention wanes.
Then the second speaker begins not with a slide, but with a story of a small business owner whose venture
was transformed by blockchain.
This narrative thread is then skillfully woven through the technical aspects of blockchain, making
the information relatable and memorable.
Why does the second approach work better?
Human brains are wired for stories.
We are more likely to remember information when it is part of a narrative that evokes emotions and personal
connections.
This doesn't mean replacing data with anecdotes, but rather framing the data within a story that illustrates
its impact.
To start, identify the core message of your presentation.
What is the one thing you want your audience to remember?
Once you have that, think of a real life scenario or case study that exemplifies this message.
This becomes the backbone of your story.
Next, humanize your data.
Behind every statistic, there is a human story waiting to be told.
For instance, rather than simply stating that 70% of startups fail within the first ten years, share
the journey of a specific startup that beat the odds.
What challenges did they face?
How did they overcome them?
This approach not only makes your presentation more engaging, but also helps your audience understand
the practical implications of the data.
Moreover, use visuals to complement your story.
A well-chosen image can evoke emotions and reinforce your message with overwhelming your audience with
text or complex graphs.
Remember, the goal is not to dilute the technical content, but to make it accessible and memorable
by bridging stories and technical data.
You create a dynamic presentation that engages, informs, and inspires.
In summary, the magic of storytelling lies in its ability to transform abstract concepts into tangible
experiences.
As you prepare your next technical presentation, challenge yourself to think beyond the data.
Find the story that your data tells and share it.
This approach will not only elevate your presentation skills, but also leave a lasting impact on your
audience.
Making complex information not just understood, but felt.

--- Delivering Stories Naturally Without Reading ---

How do we harness the power of storytelling in our presentations to captivate and persuade our audience
without relying on notes?
Today, we dive into the art of delivering stories naturally, a skill that can transform the way you
communicate and leave a lasting impression on your listeners.
Storytelling is not just an art, it's a technique that, when mastered, can convey your message with
more impact than any slide or bullet point ever could.
To begin, let's understand the structure of a compelling story.
Every story has a beginning where you set the scene and introduce the characters.
A middle where the main action or conflict unfolds.
And an end where the resolution brings the story to a close.
This structure is your blueprint.
By mentally mapping your story according to this framework, you can smoothly transition from one part
to the next without the need for notes.
Imagine you're presenting a case study.
Start by setting the scene.
Introduce the company, the challenge they faced, and why this story matters to your audience.
This hooks listeners and gives them a reason to care.
As you move into the action, describe the steps taken to address the challenge, the obstacles encountered,
and how they were overcome.
Finally, conclude with the outcome, what was learned and how it applies to your audience's situation.
This structure not only makes your story easy to follow, but also easy to remember.
Next, let's talk about connecting with your audience.
The secret lies in authenticity and emotional engagement.
Share personal anecdotes or experiences related to the topic.
When you speak from personal experience, you speak with authority and authenticity, making it easier
to engage your audience without notes.
Moreover, tapping into emotions be it excitement, frustration, or joy, makes your story relatable
and memorable.
Visualization is another powerful tool.
Before your presentation, visualize yourself telling the story smoothly and confidently.
This mental rehearsal primes your brain, making it easier to recall your story naturally during the
actual presentation.
Practice is, of course, indispensable.
Practice your story until it feels like a conversation with a friend.
This doesn't mean memorizing it word for word, but being familiar enough with the key points and transitions
to maintain a natural flow.
The more you practice, the more you internalize the story, reducing your reliance on notes.
Lastly, be prepared to adapt.
No matter how well you know your story, be ready to adjust based on your audience's reactions.
If a particular part resonates, you might spend a bit more time there.
If you sense confusion, you can clarify or elaborate.
This flexibility is only possible when you know your story inside out and are not tied to notes.
In conclusion, delivering stories naturally without reading from notes is a powerful skill that can
dramatically enhance your presentations by structuring your stories, connecting emotionally with your
audience, visualizing success, practicing diligently, and being prepared to adapt.
You can tell compelling stories that engage, persuade, and inspire.
Remember, the goal is not just to share information, but to make your message resonate on a deeper
level.

--- Using Anecdotes to Reinforce Your Points ---

Effective communication is not just about delivering information, it's about making sure that information
sticks with your audience.
One of the most powerful tools in achieving this is through the use of anecdotes.
Anecdotes are short, interesting stories, often personal, that illustrate a point or concept.
Today, we'll dive into how anecdotes can reinforce your points and make your presentations unforgettable.
Let's start with understanding why anecdotes are so effective.
Human brains are wired for storytelling.
When we hear a story, not only do the language processing parts of our brain light up, but also the
areas that we would use if we were experiencing the events of the story ourselves.
This means that when you tell a story, your audience doesn't just hear it, they experience it.
This experiential processing leads to better recall and understanding of the information presented.
Now consider the application of anecdotes in reinforcing your points.
When you introduce a concept or a piece of information, pairing it with an anecdote allows your audience
to see it in action.
For instance, if you're discussing the importance of customer service, sharing a personal story about
a time when excellent customer service made a significant difference for you makes the concept come
alive.
This not only makes your presentation more engaging, but also helps your audience understand the real
world application of your points.
Furthermore, anecdotes can serve as emotional hooks.
They can evoke feelings of empathy, joy, surprise, or even outrage, which can be incredibly effective
in making your message memorable.
When people feel an emotional connection to what you're saying, they're more likely to remember it.
However, it's important to choose anecdotes that are relevant and appropriate for your audience and
your message.
The emotional response you're aiming for should align with the overall tone and purpose of your presentation.
Incorporating anecdotes into your presentations also allows you to showcase your personality and make
your communication more authentic.
People connect with people, not just with facts or figures.
By sharing personal stories, you're giving your audience a glimpse of who you are, which can build
trust and rapport.
How can you effectively use anecdotes?
First, keep them concise and focused.
An effective anecdote is brief and directly related to the point you're trying to make.
Second, practice how you tell the story.
The way you deliver the anecdote can significantly impact its effectiveness.
Use expressive language.
Vary your tone and pace, and make eye contact with your audience to draw them into the story.
Lastly, reflect on the anecdotes relevance to your audience.
Make sure it's something they can relate to or learn from.
In conclusion, anecdotes are a powerful tool in reinforcing your points and making your presentations
more engaging, memorable, and effective.
They allow you to connect with your audience on a deeper level, making your message not just heard,
but felt and experienced.
So the next time you're preparing for a presentation, think about how you can incorporate anecdotes
to bring your points to life.
Remember, the power of storytelling can transform your communication and leave a lasting impact on
your audience.

--- Building Complex Mental Maps Step-by-Step ---

What makes a story compelling enough to captivate an audience from start to finish.
Today we dive into the art of storytelling, an essential skill for anyone looking to engage and influence.
At the heart of every memorable story lies a clear and relatable conflict.
This conflict doesn't necessarily have to be dramatic or world altering.
Instead, it's about the struggle between opposing forces, which could be as simple as an internal
battle against fear or the challenge of overcoming a personal obstacle.
The power of storytelling is not just in the tale itself, but in the emotional journey it takes the
listener on to craft a story that resonates.
Start by identifying the core conflict.
This conflict is the engine of your story, driving it forward and keeping your audience invested.
Once you've established this focus on building relatable characters, these are the vessels through
which your audience will experience the story.
They don't have to be heroes in a traditional sense, but they must be authentic and multifaceted,
allowing listeners to see parts of themselves in these characters.
Setting is another crucial element.
It's not just about where your story takes place.
But how this how this environment influences the characters and the conflict.
A well-drawn setting can add depth and atmosphere, enriching the narrative and immersing your audience
in the world you've created.
The narrative arc is your roadmap, guiding the story from the introduction through rising action and
climax to resolution.
This structure is not just a template, but a tool to pace your story, ensuring it builds tension and
delivers satisfying resolutions.
Emotional connection is the final and perhaps most critical element.
Your story should evoke feelings, whether it's joy, sadness, anger, or hope.
This emotional engagement is what transforms a simple narrative into a powerful story that stays with
the listener long after it's over.
In conclusion, compelling storytelling is an art that combines conflict, character setting, narrative
structure, and emotional resonance.
By mastering these elements, you can create stories that not only entertain, but also inspire, educate,
and connect with your audience on a deep level.
Remember, the best stories are those that feel personal and true, reflecting the complexities of life
and the human experience.

--- Linking Diverse Topics Coherently ---

Effective communication is not just about what you say, but how you say it.
Today we're diving into the art of persuasive speaking, a skill that can transform the way you interact
with the world.
Persuasive speaking is about convincing your audience to consider your viewpoint.
Whether you're delivering a presentation, pitching an idea, or simply engaging in a debate.
The foundation of persuasive speaking lies in building a strong argument.
This involves presenting clear, logical, and compelling evidence that supports your position.
But it's not just about the facts.
It's also about connecting with your audience on an emotional level.
Understanding your audience's values, beliefs, and concerns is crucial.
By aligning your message with what matters to them, you can create a more impactful and resonant speech.
Storytelling is another powerful tool in persuasive speaking.
A well-told story can illustrate your point in a way that data alone cannot.
It brings your message to life, making it memorable and engaging.
When crafting your speech, consider incorporating personal anecdotes or relevant case studies that
highlight the real world implications of your argument.
Moreover, your delivery plays a significant role in how your message is received.
Confidence, clarity and passion are key.
Practice your speech to ensure you can deliver it smoothly without relying on notes.
This allows you to maintain eye contact with your audience, making your presentation more dynamic and
engaging.
Pay attention to your body language as well.
Gestures, facial expressions, and movement can all reinforce your message and help you connect with
your audience.
In addition to these techniques, feedback is invaluable.
Seek out opportunities to practice your speech in front of others and be open to their critiques.
This can provide insights into areas where you can improve both in terms of content and delivery.
In conclusion, persuasive speaking is an art that combines a well-constructed argument emotional resonance,
storytelling, confident delivery, and the power of feedback.
By mastering these elements, you can enhance your ability to influence and inspire those around you.
Whether you're aiming to persuade a small group or a large audience, the principles of persuasive speaking
can empower you to communicate with impact and conviction.

--- Advanced Techniques for Rapid Mental Recall ---

Embracing the art of delivering powerful presentations without relying on notes is a game changer in
the professional world.
Today, we'll dive into advanced techniques for rapid mental recall that will enable you to speak confidently
and effectively engaging your audience from start to finish.
Imagine standing before an audience, your mind clear and focused, delivering your message with precision
and passion.
This is not just a skill, but a transformative practice that elevates your communication to new heights.
The cornerstone of mastering note free presentations lies in the development of a robust mental recall
system.
This involves harnessing the power of mental mapping, a technique that allows you to organize and visualize
your presentations content in your mind by creating vivid mental images and associating them with key
points of your presentation, you can effortlessly navigate through your material in a seamless and
coherent manner.
Mental mapping is not just about memorization, it's about making your message a part of you.
It requires a deep understanding of your material, enabling you to discuss it freely and adapt to the
moment without losing your train of thought.
This level of preparation and internalization fosters a genuine connection with your audience, as you're
able to maintain eye contact and engage in a more personal and impactful way.
Another crucial aspect of rapid mental recall is the practice of chunking.
This technique involves breaking down your presentation into manageable, bite sized pieces or chunks.
By organizing your content into clearly defined segments, you can more easily recall each part of your
presentation without overwhelming your memory.
This method not only aids in memorization, but also helps in creating a structured and logical flow
to your presentation, making it easier for your audience to follow and absorb.
To enhance these techniques, regular practice in a variety of settings is essential.
Rehearsing your presentation out loud, in different environments and in front of a mirror or a small
audience can significantly improve your comfort level and adaptability.
This practice builds your confidence and helps in refining your delivery.
Ensuring that your message is conveyed with clarity and conviction.
Incorporating storytelling into your presentations is a powerful way to make your message memorable.
Stories have the unique ability to engage the listener's emotions and imagination, making your content
more relatable and impactful.
By weaving relevant stories into your presentation, you can highlight key points and make your message
stick, all while keeping your audience captivated.
In conclusion, mastering the art of note free presentations through advanced techniques of rapid mental
recall transforms the way you communicate.
It's not just about delivering a message, it's about making an impact, connecting with your audience
on a deeper level, and leaving a lasting impression.
By developing your mental mapping skills, practicing chunking, and embracing storytelling, you can
become a more effective and memorable speaker, ready to captivate and inspire your audience at every
opportunity.

--- Practicing Mental Map Navigation: Real-World Examples ---

Effective communication is a cornerstone of professional success, and one of the most impactful ways
to connect with your audience is through presentations.
However, the challenge many face is not just in what to say, but how to say it without relying on
notes.
Today we're diving into the art of delivering presentations without the crutch of written prompts.
Focusing on the technique of mental map navigation.
Imagine stepping onto the stage, your mind clear, your message internalized, and your audience captivated.
This isn't just a dream.
It's entirely possible with the right preparation and mindset.
The key lies in creating a mental map of your presentation, a technique that leverages the power of
visual memory to organize and recall your material naturally.
A mental map is not a rigid script, but a flexible guide that adapts to the flow of your presentation
and the needs of your audience.
It starts with the core message, the heart of what you want to convey.
From there, branch out to the main points that support your message, each with its own imagery and
emotional resonance.
This method doesn't just improve recall, it makes your delivery more dynamic and engaging.
Let's look at a real world example.
Consider a Ted talk by a renowned psychologist on the power of positive thinking.
Instead of memorizing the speech word for word, the speaker creates a mental map.
The core message is the transformative power of positivity.
Each main point, such as the science behind positive thinking, real life success stories, and practical
tips for daily practice, is a branch from the center visualized as vivid, memorable images or stories.
This technique is not limited to professional speakers.
Anyone can use mental mapping to deliver presentations with confidence.
Start by practicing with small informal groups, focusing on visualizing your mental map and speaking
from the heart.
As you become more comfortable, expand your audience and the complexity of your presentations.
In conclusion, the ability to speak without reading notes is a powerful skill that can dramatically
enhance your effectiveness as a communicator.
By creating and navigating a mental map, you tap into your natural storytelling abilities and connect
with your audience on a deeper level.
Remember, the most memorable presentations are those delivered not from a script, but from the soul.
Embrace the practice of mental mapping and watch your presentations transform from good to unforgettable.

--- Strategies for Preparing for Potential Questions ---

What makes a presentation unforgettable.
It's the speaker's ability to connect with the audience.
Delivering a message that resonates long after the talk has ended.
Today we delve into the art of preparing for potential questions.
A skill that can elevate your presentation from good to great.
Anticipating and preparing for questions not only showcases your expertise, but also demonstrates your
respect for the audience's curiosity and engagement.
Let's start by understanding why questions are a golden opportunity.
They allow you to clarify points, expand on information, and interact directly with your listeners.
Making your presentation a two way conversation to effectively prepare for potential questions, begin
by thoroughly understanding your topic.
This means diving deep into your subject matter beyond just the content of your presentation.
Consider the broader context related fields and recent developments.
This comprehensive knowledge base will equip you to handle a wide range of inquiries.
Next, think like your audience.
Who are they?
What are their interests, concerns, and levels of understanding related to your topic?
By putting yourself in their shoes, you can predict the types of questions they might ask.
Create a list of these potential questions and craft thoughtful, concise responses.
Another strategy is to seek feedback before your presentation, share your content with colleagues or
friends, asking them to pose questions.
This rehearsal can uncover areas that might need clarification, giving you a chance to refine your
answers and sometimes even your presentation content.
Additionally, consider the common questions asked in your field.
Every industry has hot topics, ongoing debates, and frequently asked questions.
Familiarize yourself with these and prepare responses that reflect your insights and perspectives.
But what if you're asked a question you didn't anticipate?
First, stay calm and collected.
It's perfectly acceptable to take a moment to think about your response.
If you don't know the answer, be honest.
Offer to find the information and follow up after the presentation, demonstrating your commitment to
providing value to your audience.
In summary, preparing for potential questions is an integral part of delivering a powerful presentation.
It involves understanding your topic and audience, anticipating their inquiries, seeking feedback,
and being ready to handle unexpected questions with grace.
By embracing questions as an opportunity to engage and inform you, transform your presentation into
a dynamic and interactive experience.
This not only enriches the audience's learning, but also solidifies your position as a confident and
knowledgeable speaker.

--- Techniques for Listening and Responding Thoughtfully ---

Effective communication is not just about speaking, it's equally about listening and responding in
a manner that elevates the conversation.
Today we will dive into the art of listening and responding thoughtfully, a skill that can transform
your interactions whether in a professional setting or personal life.
Listening is the foundation of any meaningful dialogue.
It involves more than just hearing the words being spoken.
It requires an active engagement with the speaker's message, emotions, and intentions.
Active listening is characterized by fully concentrating on the speaker, understanding their message,
responding appropriately, and remembering what is being said.
This process is crucial for effective communication, as it ensures that you are genuinely engaging
with the content of the conversation, not just waiting for your turn to speak.
One of the key components of active listening is the ability to provide feedback.
Feedback can be verbal or non-verbal signals such as nodding, maintaining eye contact and using phrases
like I understand or tell me more.
This not only shows the speaker that you are paying attention, but also encourages them to continue
sharing.
Furthermore, summarizing or paraphrasing what the speaker has said can be a powerful way to demonstrate
that you have indeed understood their message.
Responding thoughtfully is the next step in this communicative dance.
It involves crafting responses that are considerate of the speaker's feelings and perspectives, even
when you disagree.
Thoughtful responses are characterized by empathy, respect, and a genuine intention to add value to
the conversation.
They require you to think before you speak, considering the impact your words will have on the dialogue
and the relationship.
One effective strategy for responding thoughtfully is to ask open ended questions.
These questions encourage deeper discussion and show the speaker that you are interested in their thoughts
and feelings.
Additionally, they can help clarify points of confusion and lead to a more enriching conversation for
both parties involved.
Another strategy is to use I statements when sharing your thoughts or feelings.
This approach focuses on your own reactions and experiences.
Rather than placing blame or making assumptions about the other person.
For example, saying I feel concerned when I hear that instead of you always do, that can make a significant
difference in how your message is received.
In conclusion, mastering the art of listening and responding thoughtfully is a powerful tool in enhancing
your communication skills.
It fosters deeper connections, reduces misunderstandings, and promotes a culture of respect and empathy.
By actively listening and responding with care, you can significantly improve the quality of your interactions,
both personally and professionally.
Remember, communication is a two way street and how we listen and respond can make all the difference.

--- Controlling the Room During Challenging Questions ---

Facing challenging questions during a presentation can be daunting, but it's also an opportunity to
demonstrate your expertise and control of the room.
Today, we'll dive into strategies that help you navigate tough inquiries with confidence, ensuring
your audience remains engaged and impressed when confronted with a challenging question.
The first step is to maintain your composure.
A calm and collected response sets the tone for a constructive exchange.
Remember, the way you handle difficult questions can enhance your credibility and audience engagement.
Listening is just as crucial as answering.
Give the questioner your full attention, acknowledging their query with a nod or a verbal confirmation.
This not only shows respect, but also gives you a moment to formulate your response.
Clarification is your ally.
If a question is complex or unclear, don't hesitate to ask for clarification.
This can prevent misunderstandings and gives you additional time to think about your answer.
It also ensures that the response you provide is on target and valuable to your audience.
Structure your response effectively.
Begin with a brief summary of the question to show understanding.
Then proceed with your answer.
If applicable.
Relate your response to a broader context or tie it back to your presentation's key messages.
This approach keeps your audience engaged and reinforces your main points.
Handling challenging questions with grace and authority often involves admitting when you don't have
an answer.
Honesty in these situations can actually boost your credibility.
Offer to follow up after the presentation, or direct the questioner to resources where they can find
more information.
Incorporating these strategies into your presentations will not only help you manage difficult questions,
but also enhance your overall communication skills by staying composed, listening, actively seeking
clarification, structuring your responses, and embracing honesty.
You'll navigate challenging inquiries with ease, leaving a lasting impression on your audience.

--- Bouncing Back from Tough Interactions ---

Effective communication is the cornerstone of success in any professional setting.
Yet even the most seasoned speakers can find themselves in challenging situations that test their resolve
and adaptability.
Today, we delve into strategies for bouncing back from tough interactions during presentations or meetings,
ensuring you maintain composure and effectiveness.
Imagine you've just delivered a presentation and the response is not what you anticipated.
The room is filled with critical questions, skeptical looks, or perhaps the dreaded silence.
It's a scenario that can unsettle even the most confident among us.
The key to navigating this lies in your response to the feedback, not the feedback itself.
First, let's understand that tough interactions are not indictments of your competence, but opportunities
for growth.
Embrace them with an open mind when faced with critical feedback.
Listen actively.
This means fully concentrating on the speaker, understanding their message, and responding thoughtfully.
Resist the urge to defend your points immediately.
Instead, acknowledge the feedback.
Thank the person for it, and if necessary, ask for clarification.
This approach not only diffuses tension, but also demonstrates your professionalism and commitment
to improvement.
Next, adaptability is your ally.
If the audience's reaction signals a disconnect, be prepared to pivot your approach.
This might mean simplifying complex ideas, providing additional examples to clarify your points, or
adjusting the tone of your delivery.
The ability to read the room and adapt on the fly is a hallmark of effective communication.
Reflection is another critical step in bouncing back from tough interactions.
After the meeting or presentation, take time to reflect on what happened.
Consider the questions asked and the feedback given.
What can you learn from this experience?
How can you adjust your message or delivery for better outcomes in the future?
Reflection not only aids in personal growth, but also enhances your future presentations.
Lastly, resilience is crucial.
Do not let a tough interaction undermine your confidence.
Remember, every speaker faces challenges.
What sets apart the truly effective communicators is their ability to learn from these experiences and
come back stronger.
In conclusion, tough interactions, while challenging, are not insurmountable.
By listening actively, being adaptable, reflecting on the experience, and maintaining resilience,
you can turn these situations into valuable learning opportunities.
Embrace the challenge and let it propel you towards becoming a more effective and impactful communicator.

--- Maintaining Authority and Expertise Throughout Q&A ---

What makes a great leader in today's fast evolving business landscape.
Leadership is not just about guiding a team towards a common goal.
It's about inspiring, motivating and fostering an environment where innovation thrives.
In this exploration, we delve into the core qualities that define exceptional leadership and how these
traits can be nurtured and developed.
A key attribute of successful leaders is their ability to communicate effectively.
This means not only conveying messages clearly and concisely, but also listening actively to feedback
and adapting communication styles to suit different audiences.
Effective communication builds trust, encourages transparency, and ensures that everyone in the team
is aligned with the organization's objectives.
Another critical quality is emotional intelligence.
Leaders with high emotional intelligence can understand and manage their own emotions as well as empathize
with others.
This ability allows them to navigate complex interpersonal dynamics, resolve conflicts gracefully,
and create a positive, inclusive workplace culture.
Strategic thinking is also essential for leadership.
The best leaders are visionary thinkers who can anticipate future trends adapt to change swiftly and
make decisions that steer their organisations towards long term success.
They have a keen understanding of their industry, recognise opportunities for growth and are not afraid
to take calculated risks.
Moreover, resilience is a trait that distinguishes great leaders in the face of challenges.
Resilient leaders remain calm, composed and determined.
They view setbacks as opportunities for learning and growth, and their perseverance inspires others
to stay focused and committed, even when the going gets tough.
Lastly, integrity is the foundation of strong leadership.
Leaders who act with honesty, transparency, and fairness earn the respect and loyalty of their teams.
They set high ethical standards for themselves and their organizations, leading by example and fostering
a culture of accountability.
In conclusion, the essence of great leadership lies in effective communication, emotional intelligence,
strategic thinking, resilience, and integrity.
These qualities not only propel leaders to achieve their personal best, but also inspire their teams
to reach new heights by focusing on developing these core attributes.
Aspiring leaders can build a strong foundation for success in any endeavor.

--- You've Achieved 50% >> Let's Celebrate Your Progress And Keep Going To 75% ---

50%.
Well done.
You are halfway there.
There's absolutely no turning back now or looking back.
The end is in sight, and you're going to learn so much more in the rest of this course and continue
taking action towards achieving your goals and getting the skills that you need to be successful in
your life.
So keep going.
I look forward to checking in with you at the next milestone.
That's 75%.
So don't give up now.
Keep going through the material.
Take action and I will see you shortly.

--- Strategies for Internalizing Content Quickly ---

Effective communication is the cornerstone of professional success, and the ability to present without
relying on notes is a skill that distinguishes good speakers from great ones.
Today, we delve into strategies for internalizing content quickly, enabling you to deliver presentations
with confidence and authority.
To begin with, understanding the structure of your presentation is crucial.
Think of your presentation as a journey where you guide your audience from one point to another.
Start with a strong opening that captures attention, followed by the body, where you delve into the
details and conclude with a powerful closing that leaves a lasting impression.
This structured approach not only helps in organizing your thoughts, but also aids in memorization.
Visualization is another powerful tool in internalizing content.
Create a mental map of your presentation, associating each segment with a vivid image.
These mental images serve as cues that trigger recollection during your presentation.
The more unique and vivid the images, the easier it is to recall the content associated with them.
Repetition plays a key role in memorization.
However, it's not just about repeating the content verbatim, but understanding and internalizing the
concepts behind your words.
Break down your presentation into key messages and repeat them, focusing on the meaning and implications.
This deep understanding ensures that even if you forget the exact wording, you can still convey the
essence of your message.
Practice is indispensable in mastering the art of note free presentations.
It's not merely about rehearsing in front of a mirror, but practicing in varying conditions and settings.
This exposes you to different distractions and pressures, making you more adaptable and resilient.
Record your practice sessions to identify areas of improvement and to become comfortable with your presentation
style.
Lastly, embracing pauses can significantly enhance your presentation.
Pauses give you a moment to gather your thoughts and allow your audience to absorb the information,
rather than fearing moments of silence.
Use them strategically to emphasize key points or to transition between segments of your presentation.
In conclusion, delivering a presentation without notes is an attainable skill with the right strategies.
By structuring your content, utilizing visualization, embracing repetition, practicing in diverse
settings, and using pauses effectively, you can internalize your presentation quickly and deliver
it with confidence.
This not only enhances your credibility, but also enables a deeper connection with your audience,
making your message more impactful.

--- Building Confidence Through Preparation ---

Effective communication is an art, and delivering a presentation without relying on notes is its masterpiece.
Today we're going to unlock the secrets to mastering this skill, ensuring you can speak with confidence,
clarity and charisma.
Imagine standing in front of an audience, your mind clear, your heart steady and your words flowing
effortlessly.
This isn't just a dream.
It's a skill you can acquire with the right techniques.
Preparation is the cornerstone of a successful presentation.
It's not merely about rehearsing your material, it's about deeply understanding it.
To begin, immerse yourself in your topic.
Dive deep into the subject matter until you feel confident discussing it from any angle.
This depth of knowledge means you're not just memorizing words, but internalizing concepts, allowing
you to speak with authority and authenticity.
Next, structure your presentation into a clear, logical flow.
Think of it as building a roadmap for your audience, guiding them through your message with purpose
and direction.
This roadmap should have a clear beginning, middle, and end each part seamlessly leading into the
next.
By structuring your content, you create mental signposts for yourself, making it easier to navigate
your presentation without the crutch of notes.
Visualization is another powerful tool in your preparation arsenal.
Picture yourself delivering your presentation flawlessly, engaging with your audience, and handling
questions with ease.
This mental rehearsal primes your brain for success, building confidence that will shine through when
you speak.
Now let's talk about the power of stories.
Incorporating personal stories or relevant case studies into your presentation makes your content more
relatable and memorable.
Stories create emotional connections and can often illustrate complex points more effectively than data
alone.
By weaving stories into your presentation, you make it more engaging for your audience and easier for
you to recall your material without notes.
Practice is, of course, essential, but it's not just about repetition.
It's about practicing smart focus on key concepts.
Transitions between topics and your opening and closing statements.
These elements are crucial for a smooth delivery.
Record yourself if possible, as this allows you to see where you might improve your delivery or where
your flow might need smoothing out.
Lastly, embrace the power of pausing.
Pauses are not only a sign of a confident speaker, but also give you a moment to gather your thoughts
and check in with your audience's understanding.
A well-placed pause can emphasize a point, create anticipation, or simply give your audience time
to absorb information.
In conclusion, delivering a presentation without notes is an achievable goal that demands thorough
preparation, deep understanding of your material and strategic practice by structuring your content,
visualizing success, leveraging stories, practicing intelligently, and mastering the art of pausing,
you'll be able to engage your audience with confidence and ease.
Remember, the goal isn't just to speak without notes, it's to connect with your audience in a meaningful
way, leaving a lasting impact.

--- Navigating High-Pressure Presentation Environments ---

Delivering a presentation without relying on notes can seem daunting, especially in high pressure environments.
Yet, mastering this skill can dramatically enhance your ability to communicate effectively and connect
with your audience.
Today, we'll dive into strategies that empower you to present confidently, free from the constraints
of written cues.
Imagine stepping onto a stage, your mind clear, your message internalized.
This is the pinnacle of presentation skills, where your focus is entirely on engaging with your audience,
not on recalling your next point.
Achieving this level of proficiency starts with understanding your material inside and out.
Deep knowledge of your subject matter forms the foundation of confidence.
It allows you to speak extemporaneously, adapting your message in real time to the reactions and engagement
levels of your audience.
But how do you internalize your material without memorizing it word for word?
The secret lies in the power of mental mapping.
This technique involves organizing your content into a logical flow of main points and sub points,
all connected in a way that makes sense to you by visualizing this map in your mind.
You can navigate through your presentation smoothly, covering each point thoroughly without the need
for written prompts.
Another vital aspect is the practice of storytelling.
Stories not only make your presentation more engaging, but also easier to remember.
When you can anchor your points in a narrative, recalling your content becomes as simple as telling
a story to a friend.
This method not only benefits you as the presenter, but also makes your message more relatable and
memorable for your audience.
Now let's talk about the role of rehearsal in delivering presentations without notes.
Regular, focused practice is essential.
It's not about memorizing your script, but rather getting comfortable with the flow of your ideas.
Rehearse out loud in front of a mirror or record yourself.
This practice will highlight areas that need refinement and help you become more aware of your delivery
style, including your pacing, tone, and body language.
In high pressure situations, managing anxiety is also crucial.
Anxiety can disrupt your thought process and hinder your ability to recall information.
Techniques such as deep breathing, positive visualization, and mindfulness can help keep nerves at
bay, ensuring that when you speak, you do so with clarity and confidence.
In conclusion, delivering presentations without reading from notes is a skill that combines deep knowledge
of your subject mental mapping, storytelling, extensive rehearsal, and anxiety management.
By developing these competencies, you can transform your presentations into powerful, engaging, and
memorable experiences for your audience.
Remember, the goal is not to achieve perfection, but to communicate your message with authenticity
and impact.

--- Techniques for Engaging Senior Executives ---

Engaging senior executives in presentations requires a strategic approach, one that differs significantly
from general audience engagements.
Today, we delve into the art of captivating this unique group, ensuring your message not only resonates,
but also prompts decisive action.
To begin, understanding the mindset of senior executives is crucial.
Typically, they seek clarity, brevity, and relevance in every presentation.
Time is a precious commodity, and any presentation must justify every minute spent.
Therefore, the first step is to distill your message to its essence, focusing on key takeaways that
align with their strategic interests and concerns.
A common misconception is that data alone can sway executives.
While data is important.
The narrative around the data is what truly engages.
Storytelling, therefore becomes a powerful tool in your arsenal, crafting a narrative that weaves
through your data, highlighting challenges, and showcasing solutions can make your presentation memorable
and persuasive.
Another vital aspect is anticipating the questions senior executives might ask.
This preparation shows not only your thorough understanding of the subject matter, but also your foresight
in addressing potential concerns.
It positions you as a confident and credible presenter capable of navigating complex discussions.
Visual aids, when used judiciously, can enhance your presentations impact.
However, the key is simplicity and relevance.
Overly complicated charts or irrelevant graphics can distract or even irritate busy executives.
Instead, opt for clean, straightforward visuals that underscore your main points.
The power of a well crafted question cannot be overstated.
Posing strategic questions throughout your presentation can engage your audience, prompting them to
think deeply about the issues at hand.
This interactive approach transforms passive listeners into active participants, making your presentation
a collaborative dialogue rather than a monologue.
Practicing your delivery is as important as the content itself.
Senior executives value authenticity and confidence, which come from being well prepared.
Rehearse your presentation, focusing on maintaining a steady pace.
Using pauses effectively and employing body language that conveys confidence and openness.
In conclusion, engaging senior executives is an art that combines clarity, brevity, relevance, and
interaction.
By focusing on what truly matters to them, crafting a compelling narrative, preparing for their questions,
using visuals wisely, and delivering with confidence, you can make a lasting impression.
Remember, the goal is not just to inform, but to inspire action.
And with these strategies, you are well on your way to achieving just that.

--- Managing Time Effectively in Limited Time Slots ---

Effective communication is a cornerstone of personal and professional success.
Today, we're diving into the art of persuasive speaking, a skill that can influence opinions, drive
sales, and inspire teams.
Persuasive speaking isn't just about what you say, it's how you say it and the connection you establish
with your audience.
Let's break down the components that make a speech not just good, but unforgettable.
To start, understanding your audience is key.
Tailoring your message to their interests, needs, and values can make the difference between engagement
and apathy.
This requires research and empathy, putting yourself in their shoes to deliver a message that resonates
on a personal level.
Next, the structure of your speech is vital.
A clear and logical flow keeps your audience engaged and makes your argument more compelling.
Begin with a strong opening that grabs attention, followed by the body where you present your main
points supported by evidence, and conclude with a powerful closing that calls to action or leaves a
lasting impression.
The power of storytelling cannot be overstated in persuasive speaking.
Stories connect with people on an emotional level, making your message more memorable and impactful.
Incorporating personal anecdotes or relevant examples can transform your speech from a monologue into
a relatable and engaging narrative.
Language choice is another crucial element.
Using clear, concise, and vivid language makes your message accessible and compelling.
Avoid jargon that might alienate your audience, and opt for words that evoke emotions and paint a vivid
picture of your ideas.
Non-verbal cues play a significant role in how your message is received.
Body language, eye contact, and vocal variety can emphasize your points and convey confidence and
sincerity.
These cues complement your words, enhancing the overall impact of your speech.
Finally, practice is paramount.
The more familiar you are with your material, the more confidently you'll deliver it.
Rehearsing your speech multiple times helps refine your delivery and timing, ensuring your message
is communicated effectively.
In conclusion, persuasive speaking is an art form that combines understanding your audience, structuring
your message, storytelling, careful language choice, nonverbal cues, and practice.
Mastering these elements allows you to influence opinions, inspire action, and communicate more effectively
in any context.
Whether you're addressing a boardroom, a classroom, or a stadium, the principles of persuasive speaking
can elevate your message and leave a lasting impact on your audience.

--- Simplifying Complex Information ---

Effective communication is a cornerstone of professional success.
Yet many find it challenging to simplify complex information for diverse audiences.
Today, we'll delve into strategies that empower you to distill intricate ideas into digestible, engaging
narratives without compromising on content integrity.
Understanding your audience is the first step in this process.
It's crucial to gauge their background, knowledge level, and interests.
This understanding allows you to tailor your message, ensuring it resonates and is accessible.
Next, let's focus on the art of using analogies and metaphors.
These are powerful tools that can bridge the gap between unfamiliar concepts and the audience's existing
knowledge, by relating complex ideas to common experiences or objects.
You make your message more relatable and easier to grasp.
For instance, explaining the Internet of Things IoT can be daunting.
However, likening it to a busy bee colony where each bee's role is interconnected and vital to the
hive's overall function.
Can illuminate the concept of interconnected devices working towards a common goal.
Structure is your ally when presenting complex information.
Breaking down your content into manageable segments or steps guides your audience through your narrative
logically and coherently.
This approach not only aids in retention, but also makes the information more approachable.
Consider the method of layering information, starting with broad concepts before diving into specifics.
This technique establishes a solid foundation, making it easier for your audience to follow more detailed
discussions.
Visual aids are not just embellishments, they are essential tools for clarification.
Diagrams, charts, and infographics can convey what words alone may not.
They serve as visual summaries, making complex data or processes understandable at a glance.
For example, a flowchart can demystify a sophisticated process, allowing the audience to visualize
each step and its outcome.
Engagement is key to ensuring your message is not just heard but absorbed.
Encouraging questions, facilitating discussions and incorporating interactive elements like quizzes
or practical exercises can reinforce understanding.
These interactions also provide immediate feedback, allowing you to adjust your delivery or clarify
concepts as needed.
In conclusion, simplifying complex information is an art that requires understanding your audience,
employing analogies and metaphors, structuring your content thoughtfully, utilizing visual aids,
and engaging your audience actively.
By mastering these strategies, you can communicate intricate ideas effectively, ensuring your message
is not only delivered, but also understood and appreciated.
This skill enhances your professional toolkit, enabling you to convey your expertise confidently and
clearly in any setting.

--- Creating Analogies That Stick ---

Creating analogies.
That stick is an art form crucial for anyone looking to enhance their presentation skills.
Analogies, by definition, draw a comparison between two different things to highlight some form of
similarity.
They are powerful tools in communication, allowing the speaker to convey complex ideas in a relatable
and memorable manner.
Let's dive into how you can craft analogies that not only stick, but also resonate with your audience.
The first step in creating effective analogies is to deeply understand the concept you're trying to
explain.
This requires a thorough grasp of the subject matter, as well as an awareness of your audience's level
of understanding.
The beauty of a well crafted analogy lies in its ability to bridge the gap between the unknown and the
familiar.
For instance, if you're explaining the importance of cybersecurity, you might compare a computer's
firewall to a bank's vault.
Both served to protect valuable assets from unauthorized access.
Instantly making the concept more accessible.
Next, consider the elements of storytelling.
A good analogy tells a story, complete with characters, settings, and a plot that mirrors the principle
you're illustrating.
This narrative approach engages the audience's imagination, making your message more engaging and easier
to recall.
For example, when discussing the concept of network effects and technology, you might liken it to
a party.
The more people show up, the more fun the party becomes.
Just as a social network becomes more valuable as more users join.
Precision is key when crafting your analogy.
While the temptation might be to choose the most dramatic or complex comparisons, simplicity often
reigns supreme.
Your goal is to illuminate, not obfuscate, an analogy that requires too much explanation or stretches
too far from the original concept will lose its effectiveness.
Stick to comparisons that are direct and to the point, ensuring your audience can easily follow along.
Finally, practice the delivery of your analogy.
The best analogies are those delivered with confidence and clarity.
They should flow naturally within your presentation, seamlessly integrating with your overall message.
Consider the tone, pacing, and emphasis of your delivery, as these elements can greatly enhance the
impact of your analogy.
In conclusion, analogies are powerful tools for making your presentations more engaging and memorable.
By understanding your concept and audience, leveraging storytelling, ensuring precision, and practicing
your delivery, you can create analogies that not only stick but deeply resonate with your listeners.
Remember, the goal is to simplify the complex, making your ideas accessible to everyone in the room.
With these strategies, you're well on your way to mastering the art of creating analogies that stick.

--- Balancing Depth with Accessibility ---

Effective communication is the cornerstone of professional success and personal fulfillment.
Today, we delve into the art of balancing depth with accessibility in presentations, a skill that
can transform complex ideas into engaging narratives.
Imagine standing in front of an audience, your message not just heard, but felt understood and remembered.
This is the power of mastering this balance.
To begin, let's understand what we mean by depth and accessibility.
Depth refers to the richness and complexity of your content, the layers of information and insight
you bring to your topic.
Accessibility, on the other hand, is about making your content understandable and relatable to your
audience regardless of their prior knowledge or experience with the subject matter.
The magic happens when these two elements are in perfect harmony.
Consider the challenge of presenting a technical topic, such as the impact of artificial intelligence
on daily life.
The depth comes from discussing AI's technological underpinnings, its applications, and future implications.
However, to make this accessible, we use metaphors, simplify complex concepts, and relate the technology
to everyday experiences.
This approach not only enlightens, but also engages and inspires the audience.
One effective strategy is storytelling.
Humans are wired for stories They can convey complex ideas through relatable narratives, making the
abstract tangible.
When you weave your facts and figures into a story, you invite your audience on a journey.
They see themselves in the narrative, making the information more memorable and impactful.
Another key technique is the use of visuals.
A well-designed infographic or a simple diagram can often communicate more effectively than paragraphs
of text.
Visuals can bridge the gap between depth and accessibility, providing a clear, instant understanding
of complex concepts.
It's also crucial to know your audience.
This knowledge allows you to tailor your presentation, choosing the level of depth that is appropriate,
and the language and examples that will be most accessible to them.
This customization makes your message more resonant and impactful.
In conclusion, the balance between depth and accessibility is not static, but dynamic.
Adjusting to the content, context, and audience.
By mastering this balance, you can transform your presentations into powerful tools of communication,
making your ideas not just seen or heard, but felt and remembered.
Whether you're a seasoned professional or just starting out, the ability to convey complex ideas with
clarity and impact is a skill that will serve you in every aspect of your life.

--- Avoiding Common Pitfalls in Technical Presentations ---

Effective communication is the cornerstone of impactful technical presentations.
However, even seasoned professionals can fall prey to common pitfalls that detract from their messages
clarity and engagement.
Today, we'll navigate through these challenges and uncover strategies to enhance our presentation skills,
ensuring our technical information resonates with every audience member.
One major obstacle in technical presentations is the assumption of knowledge.
Presenters often overestimate the audience's familiarity with the subject matter, leading to confusion
and disengagement.
To counter this, it's crucial to tailor the complexity of your content to the audience's level of understanding,
providing clear definitions for any technical terms or concepts introduced.
This approach not only fosters inclusivity, but also enhances comprehension and retention.
Another prevalent issue is data overload.
While it's tempting to showcase the breadth of your research or the depth of your analysis, an excess
of data can overwhelm your audience.
The key is to distill your information into digestible, compelling narratives.
Highlight the most critical data points and weave them into a story that underscores your presentation's
main themes.
This storytelling technique not only captivates your audience, but also makes complex information more
accessible.
Moreover, the reliance on slides packed with text and figures is a common crutch that hinders effective
communication.
Slides should serve as a visual aid, not the focal point of your presentation, to maximize their impact.
Employ minimal text and use visuals like charts, graphs, and images to illustrate your points.
This not only keeps your audience engaged, but also reinforces your message through visual learning.
Furthermore, the absence of interaction can make technical presentations feel one sided and monotonous.
Engaging your audience through questions, live polls or short discussions can invigorate your presentation
and provide valuable feedback on their understanding.
This interactive approach transforms passive listeners into active participants, enriching the learning
experience for everyone involved.
Lastly, neglecting the importance of rehearsing is a pitfall that can undermine even the most well
crafted presentation.
Practice not only helps you refine your delivery, but also builds confidence, allowing you to present
more naturally and handle any unforeseen issues with poise.
Remember, a successful presentation is not just about what you say, but how you say it.
In conclusion, avoiding these common pitfalls in technical presentations requires a mindful approach
to content creation, delivery, and audience engagement by focusing on clarity, storytelling, visual
aids, interaction, and rehearsal.
You can transform technical information into compelling, memorable presentations.
Embrace these strategies to communicate with, impact and inspire your audience, no matter how complex
the topic.

--- Case Studies: Effective Technical Presentations Without Notes ---

Effective communication is crucial in the technical world, where complex ideas must be conveyed clearly
and concisely.
Today, we'll dive into the strategies that have enabled professionals to deliver compelling technical
presentations without relying on notes.
Imagine standing in front of an audience, your mind clear, your message powerful, and your delivery
flawless, all without a single glance at a cue card.
This isn't a skill reserved for the gifted few.
It's an art that can be learned and perfected with the right approach.
First, let's understand why presenting without notes is so impactful.
It fosters a deeper connection with your audience, allowing for eye contact and a more natural interaction.
When you're not tied to your notes, you're free to engage.
To gauge reactions and to adapt on the fly.
This adaptability is key in technical presentations where understanding and audience engagement are
paramount.
The cornerstone of note free presentations is a solid understanding of your material.
This doesn't mean memorizing your speech word for word, but internalizing the concepts you want to
share a helpful technique is the use of mental mapping.
By organizing your information into a mental map, you create a structure that's easy to navigate under
the spotlight.
Each major point on your map is a stepping stone, guiding you seamlessly through your presentation.
Visualization is another powerful tool.
Before stepping onto the stage, visualize your presentation from start to finish.
See yourself delivering each point with confidence.
This practice not only prepares you mentally, but also helps identify parts of your presentation that
might need refining.
Now let's look at a real world example.
Consider a technical leader at a major tech company who recently presented groundbreaking research at
a global conference.
Instead of reciting data and formulas, the presenter used stories and analogies related to everyday
experiences to illustrate complex ideas.
This approach, combined with a deep understanding of the subject matter, allowed for a presentation
that was both engaging and informative, all without a glance at notes.
Practicing your presentation is also crucial.
Start by presenting to yourself, then to a small group of peers or friends.
Seek feedback on not just what you're saying, but how you're saying it.
Are you speaking clearly and at a good pace?
Are you making eye contact?
Are your explanations clear?
Use this feedback to refine your presentation, making it more engaging and understandable.
In conclusion, delivering an effective technical presentation without notes is a skill that combines
deep knowledge of your subject with the ability to connect with your audience by internalizing your
material, using mental mapping, visualizing success, and practicing extensively, you can deliver
powerful note free presentations.
Remember, the goal is not just to inform, but to inspire and engage your audience, leaving a lasting
impact long after you've left the stage.
Embrace these techniques and watch as your presentations transform from good to unforgettable.

--- Flexibility in Presentations: Adapting on the Fly ---

What makes a presentation truly stand out.
It's the speaker's ability to adapt seamlessly on the fly, to engage with the audience in real time,
and to deliver a message that feels both personal and impactful.
Today, we're diving into the art of flexibility in presentations, a skill that can transform good
speakers into great ones.
To begin with, flexibility in a presentation means being prepared, yet open to change.
Imagine you're delivering a talk on the importance of renewable energy, and suddenly a question from
the audience steers the conversation towards the economic aspects of solar panels.
A flexible presenter would seamlessly incorporate this new direction into their talk, enriching the
discussion and engaging the audience's curiosity further.
One key aspect of achieving this level of adaptability is knowing your material inside out.
This doesn't mean memorizing your speech word for word, but rather understanding the core messages
deeply enough that you can present them from various angles.
This deep knowledge allows you to pivot gracefully when unexpected questions arise, or when you sense
the audience's interest shifting.
Another crucial factor is reading the room.
This involves paying close attention to the audience's body language and feedback.
Are they leaning in, nodding, or looking puzzled?
A skilled presenter will notice these cues and adjust their delivery accordingly.
Perhaps by clarifying a complex point or by sharing an additional example to maintain engagement.
Practicing improvisation can also enhance your adaptability.
This might involve setting up mock presentations with friends or colleagues and asking them to throw
unexpected questions or topics your way.
The more you practice thinking on your feet, the more confident you'll become in your ability to adapt
during real presentations.
Moreover, the use of storytelling can be a powerful tool in maintaining flexibility.
Stories can be adapted to highlight different points, making them a versatile element of your presentation
arsenal.
If you find a particular aspect of your presentation isn't resonating, shifting into a relevant story
can recapture attention and bring your message home in a different way.
In conclusion, the ability to adapt on the fly is what separates a memorable presentation from a forgettable
one.
It requires a deep understanding of your material and acute awareness of your audience, and the willingness
to depart from your planned script when necessary.
By embracing flexibility, you not only enhance your presentation skills, but also create a more dynamic
and engaging experience for your audience.
Remember, the most powerful presentations are not those delivered note for note, but those that evolve
in the moment, connecting with the audience in a genuine and impactful way.

--- Harnessing Impromptu Speaking Opportunities ---

Impromptu speaking might seem like a daunting task, but it's a powerful skill that can dramatically
enhance your communication abilities.
Today, we're diving into how you can harness these unexpected opportunities to speak without relying
on notes.
Delivering messages with confidence and clarity.
Imagine you're at a networking event, and suddenly you're asked to share your thoughts on a topic you're
passionate about.
This scenario isn't just about sharing knowledge, it's about connecting with your audience on the spot
without the safety net of prepared notes.
Firstly, understanding the core principles of impromptu speaking is crucial.
It's not about delivering a perfect speech, but about effectively communicating your message.
The key lies in organizing your thoughts quickly.
Start with a clear statement of your main idea.
Support it with 2 or 3 points and conclude by summarizing your message or calling your audience to action.
This structure keeps your response coherent and impactful to master this skill.
Practice essential.
Regularly put yourself in situations where you have to speak without preparation.
You could join a speaking club, engage in more public discussions, or simply practice with friends
and family.
The more you practice, the more comfortable you'll become with generating and organizing your thoughts
swiftly.
Another vital component is to stay informed.
A well-informed individual can speak on a wide range of topics.
Make it a habit to read extensively, stay updated on current events, and explore new interests.
This knowledge bank will come in handy when you're asked to speak unexpectedly.
Listening skills also play a significant role in impromptu speaking.
Paying attention to the conversation and picking up on cues from your audience allows you to tailor
your message to their interests and expectations, making your response more engaging and relevant.
Now let's talk about the mental aspect.
Confidence is your best ally in impromptu speaking.
Believe in your ability to communicate effectively even without preparation.
Anxiety and nervousness are natural, but with practice, you'll learn to channel these feelings into
positive energy that enhances your speech.
Lastly, remember the power of storytelling.
Incorporating personal stories or anecdotes makes your impromptu speech more relatable and memorable.
Stories can serve as a bridge between your message and your audience, creating a stronger connection.
In conclusion, impromptu speaking is an invaluable skill that empowers you to communicate effectively
in any situation.
By understanding the basics, practicing regularly, staying informed, honing your listening skills,
building confidence, and using storytelling, you'll be well equipped to seize any speaking opportunity
that comes your way.
Embrace these moments as chances to showcase your knowledge.
Connect with your audience and leave a lasting impression, all without the crutch of notes.

--- Spontaneity Exercises You Can Practice Anywhere ---

What makes a presentation truly unforgettable.
It's the speaker's ability to connect with the audience on a personal level.
Speaking with confidence and clarity without the crutch of notes or prompts.
Today we'll dive into the art of delivering presentations from memory, focusing on techniques that
enhance recall and engagement.
The cornerstone of note free speaking is a deep understanding of your material.
This doesn't mean memorizing every word, but grasping the core concepts so well that you can discuss
them naturally.
Think of your presentation as a story with a clear beginning, middle, and end.
Stories are far easier to remember than disjointed facts, because they follow a logical flow and are
emotionally engaging.
To internalize your presentation, practice the technique of mental mapping.
Visualize your speech as a journey through a familiar place, with each key point represented by a specific
location.
This method, known as the Memory Palace, leverages spatial memory to enhance recall as you mentally
walk through your palace.
Each location triggers your memory of the next part of your presentation.
Another powerful tool is the rehearsal.
But not just any rehearsal.
Practice speaking out loud in various settings and at different times of the day.
This variability helps solidify your memory and adaptability.
During these practice sessions, focus on the flow of ideas rather than memorizing word for word.
This flexibility allows you to maintain eye contact with your audience, making your delivery more engaging
and personal.
Engaging with your audience is crucial.
Ask questions, invite participation, and observe their reactions.
This interaction not only makes your presentation more dynamic, but also helps you stay focused and
connected to your material.
An engaged audience provides real time feedback, allowing you to adjust your pace and emphasis on the
fly.
Lastly, embrace the power of pause.
Pauses are not only natural, but necessary.
They give you a moment to gather your thoughts and give your audience time to absorb the information.
A well-placed pause can emphasize a point more effectively than any slide or handout.
In conclusion, speaking without notes is an art that combines deep knowledge of your subject, mental
visualization techniques, and dynamic audience engagement.
By mastering these skills, you can deliver presentations that are not only informative but truly memorable.
Remember, the goal is not perfection, but connection.
Your audience will forgive minor slips if they feel genuinely engaged and valued.

--- Case Studies: Mastering Spontaneity in Professional Settings ---

In the world of professional speaking, the ability to deliver a presentation without relying on notes
is a skill that sets the best apart from the rest.
Today, we dive into the art of mastering spontaneity in professional settings.
A crucial component for any speaker aiming for excellence.
The journey to note free presentations is not just about memorizing words, it's about internalizing
your message and connecting with your audience on a deeper level.
Let's start with the story of a renowned CEO who stood before an international audience at a major industry
conference.
Without a single glance at notes, the CEO delivered a compelling vision for the future, weaving in
data, stories and strategic plans.
This performance was not a result of a photographic memory, but of a well-practiced technique known
as the mental map.
This method involves associating sections of your speech with locations in a familiar place, allowing
the speaker to walk through the space mentally and recall each point naturally.
Another powerful strategy is the use of personal stories and anecdotes.
Consider a professional who shared a personal journey of overcoming obstacles to achieve business success.
By anchoring her presentation in real life experiences, she was able to speak from the heart, engaging
the audience with authenticity and emotion.
This approach not only makes the speech easier to remember, but also more impactful as it establishes
a genuine connection with the audience.
Furthermore, the practice of repetition plays a critical role in mastering spontaneity.
A TEDx speaker known for his dynamic presentations spends hours rehearsing his speech aloud, focusing
on the flow and delivery rather than memorizing word for word.
This technique ensures that the speaker is comfortable with the material and can adapt to the moment,
maintaining eye contact and engaging with the audience without being chained to a script.
The use of visual aids and props can also enhance spontaneity.
A motivational speaker uses a simple object as a metaphor for her message, creating a visual anchor
for her and the audience.
This not only aids in recall, but also adds an element of surprise and engagement, making the presentation
memorable and effective.
In conclusion, mastering spontaneity in professional settings is about more than just ditching notes.
It's about internalizing your message, connecting with your audience, and delivering your presentation
with confidence and authenticity.
By employing techniques such as mental mapping, personal storytelling, repetition, and the use of
visual aids.
Speakers can achieve a level of mastery that not only captivates their audience, but also leaves a
lasting impression.
Embrace these strategies and watch as your presentations transform from scripted speeches to impactful
conversations.

--- Engaging Your Virtual Audience without Notes or Prompts ---

In today's fast paced world, the art of public speaking has evolved, especially in the realm of virtual
presentations.
Gone are the days when speakers relied heavily on notes or prompts.
The key to captivating your virtual audience lies in the mastery of delivering your message with confidence
and clarity.
Free from the chains of scripted notes, let's dive into how you can achieve this.
Firstly, understanding your material inside out is crucial.
This doesn't mean memorizing your script word for word, but rather grasping the essence of your message.
It's about knowing the flow of your topics, the key points you want to emphasize, and the transitions
between segments.
This deep familiarity allows you to speak more naturally and adjust your delivery based on the audience's
feedback.
Even in a virtual setting, one effective technique to internalize your content is through mental mapping.
Visualize your presentation as a journey where each point is a destination.
Create mental images or associations for each key idea.
This method not only aids in memorization, but also makes your delivery more dynamic as you guide your
audience through your presentation, connecting each point with a vivid story or example.
Engagement is another critical aspect of note.
Free presentations.
In a virtual environment where physical cues are limited, your ability to interact and connect becomes
your most powerful tool.
Ask questions, encourage participation, and use polls or quizzes to keep your audience involved.
This interaction not only keeps your audience engaged, but also provides you with instant feedback,
allowing you to tailor your message and delivery in real time.
Moreover, practicing your delivery cannot be overstated.
Rehearse your presentation multiple times, ideally in the same setting you'll be delivering it.
This practice helps you refine your pacing, tone, and gestures.
It also builds your confidence, making it easier to present without relying on notes.
Record your practice sessions to identify areas for improvement and to become comfortable with your
virtual presence.
Lastly, remember that perfection is not the goal.
Connection is.
Your audience will forgive minor hiccups if they feel genuinely engaged and valued.
Show your passion for the topic and let your personality shine through.
Authenticity resonates with people and can make your presentation memorable even in a digital format.
In conclusion, delivering a note free virtual presentation is an art that combines deep knowledge of
your material, effective use of mental mapping, interactive engagement techniques, thorough practice
and authenticity.
By mastering these elements, you can captivate your virtual audience, making your message not just
heard, but felt.
Fostering a connection that transcends the digital divide.

--- Leveraging Technology to Enhance Recall ---

In today's fast paced world, the ability to deliver a powerful presentation without relying on notes
or prompts is more crucial than ever.
This skill not only demonstrates your mastery of the subject, but also significantly enhances your
connection with the audience.
Let's dive into how leveraging technology can significantly enhance your recall abilities, enabling
you to deliver presentations with confidence and authority.
Memory enhancing technologies such as mind mapping software and spaced repetition systems are at the
forefront of this transformation.
Mind mapping tools, for instance, allow you to visually organize your presentation content in a way
that mirrors the natural associative pathways of your brain.
By creating a digital mind map of your talk, you can effectively internalize the flow and key points,
making it easier to recall information during your presentation.
Spaced repetition software takes advantage of cognitive psychology principles to improve your memory
retention of the presentation material.
By reviewing the content at strategically timed intervals, you ensure that information is transferred
from short term to long term memory, significantly boosting recall when you're on stage.
Moreover, the use of presentation software with non-linear navigation capabilities, such as Prezi
allows for a more dynamic and engaging delivery.
This type of software enables you to move freely between topics, depending on the audience's response
or interest, without losing your place.
This flexibility can be particularly powerful in keeping your presentation lively and interactive,
all while staying on track without the need for notes.
Incorporating video and audio recordings of your practice sessions can also play a pivotal role in enhancing
your recall.
By reviewing these recordings, you can not only critique and improve your delivery, but also reinforce
your memory of the presentation content.
Listening to or watching yourself deliver the presentation multiple times imprints the material in your
mind, making it more accessible during the actual performance.
To harness these technologies effectively, it's important to integrate them into your preparation process
early on.
Start by creating a digital mind map of your presentation to establish a clear structure.
Then use spaced repetition to memorize the key points and details.
As you become more familiar with the content, practice delivering your presentation using non-linear
presentation software and record these sessions for further review.
In conclusion, by leveraging the right technologies, you can significantly enhance your ability to
recall your presentation material without relying on notes.
This not only boosts your confidence as a speaker, but also allows for a more authentic and engaging
connection with your audience.
Embrace these tools in your preparation process and watch your presentation skills soar to new heights.

--- Virtual Presentation Challenges and How to Overcome Them ---

Virtual presentations have become a staple in today's professional environment, yet they come with
their unique set of challenges.
Overcoming these obstacles is crucial for delivering impactful and engaging presentations.
One of the most significant hurdles is maintaining audience engagement without the physical presence
and direct feedback of an in-person audience.
Presenters often struggle to gauge interest and adjust their delivery accordingly.
To tackle this, it's essential to incorporate interactive elements such as polls, Q&amp;A sessions, and
engaging visuals to encourage participation and keep the audience invested.
Another challenge is managing technical issues, which can disrupt the flow of a presentation and diminish
its professionalism.
Prior preparation is key.
Always test your equipment, internet connection and any software you plan to use well before the presentation
begins.
Having a backup plan, such as pre-recorded segments of your presentation can also mitigate these risks.
Furthermore, the lack of physical presence can make it harder to convey enthusiasm and connect with
the audience on a personal level.
To bridge this gap, presenters should focus on improving their on camera presence.
This includes maintaining eye contact by looking directly at the camera using expressive body language.
Despite the limited frame and modulating vocal tones to add warmth and emphasis to key points.
Adapting content for a virtual format is also crucial in a digital setting.
Attention spans are shorter, so presentations need to be concise and to the point.
Break down complex information into digestible chunks and use clear, simple language to ensure your
message is understood.
Visual aids should be more than just slides filled with bullet points.
They should be dynamic, visually appealing, and designed to complement the spoken word.
Lastly, creating a connection with your audience in a virtual environment requires a different approach.
Share personal stories or experiences that relate to your topic to humanize your presentation.
Encourage interaction through questions or discussions to make your audience feel involved and valued.
In conclusion, mastering virtual presentations demands a blend of technical readiness, content adaptation,
and personal engagement strategies.
By acknowledging and addressing these challenges head on, presenters can deliver compelling, effective,
and memorable virtual presentations that resonate with their audience regardless of the physical distance.

--- Case Studies in Successful Virtual Presentations ---

In today's lesson, we'll dive into the art of captivating virtual presentations, focusing on successful
case studies that have set the bar high in the digital era.
Virtual presentations have become a cornerstone of professional communication, offering unique challenges
and opportunities.
Understanding the strategies behind the most successful ones provides invaluable insights for anyone
looking to enhance their presentation skills.
One standout example comes from a tech company that launched a new product entirely through a virtual
event.
The key to their success was interactivity.
They utilized polls, live Q&amp;A sessions, and even virtual breakout rooms to engage the audience.
This approach transformed a standard presentation into an interactive experience, making the audience
feel involved and invested in the content.
Another success story involves a financial services firm that hosted a series of webinars for clients
during a critical market update period.
They understood the importance of clarity and conciseness, especially when dealing with complex information.
By breaking down the data into digestible pieces and using clear, simple visuals, they were able to
communicate intricate concepts effectively, ensuring their audience not only stayed engaged but also
fully grasped the subject matter.
A nonprofit organization's campaign to raise awareness about a global issue through virtual presentations
serves as another prime example.
They leverage storytelling, bringing real life stories to the forefront.
This approach humanized their data and statistics, making the issue more relatable and the call to
action more compelling.
The emotional connection fostered through these stories was a key factor in their success, proving
that even in a virtual setting, personal touch matters.
In each of these cases, the presenters mastered the use of technology to enhance their message rather
than let it become a barrier.
Whether it was through interactive tools, visual aids, or the strategic use of storytelling, they
tailored their approach to fit the virtual format.
This adaptability is crucial in today's digital age, where the ability to connect with an audience
through a screen is just as important as the message itself.
In conclusion, successful virtual presentations hinge on engagement, clarity, and the effective use
of technology.
By learning from these case studies, we can adopt strategies that not only capture but also maintain
our audience's attention, making our virtual presentations not just seen, but remembered.
Whether it's through interactivity, simplicity, or storytelling, the goal is to create a virtual
experience that resonates with our audience, leaving a lasting impact.

--- Understanding Your Audience on a Deeper Level ---

Understanding your audience on a deeper level is the cornerstone of delivering presentations that resonate
and inspire action.
Every speaker's goal is to connect with their audience, but to do so effectively, one must go beyond
the surface.
It's not just about knowing the demographics of your audience, it's about understanding their needs,
concerns, and motivations.
Imagine stepping into a room, whether virtual or physical, and seeing not just faces, but stories,
questions and expectations waiting to be addressed.
This is the first step towards crafting a message that truly speaks to your listeners.
The key to this deeper understanding lies in empathy and research.
Empathy allows you to put yourself in the shoes of your audience, to feel what they feel and think
what they think.
It's about listening with intent, not just hearing the words they say, but also picking up on the
nonverbal cues that reveal their true sentiments On the other hand, research involves gathering data
and insights about your audience's background, industry trends, and any challenges they might be facing.
This combination of empathy and research equips you with the knowledge to tailor your message in a way
that not only informs, but also engages and inspires your audience.
Let's consider an example.
Suppose you're presenting to a group of young entrepreneurs, knowing that they are likely facing challenges
such as securing funding, understanding market trends, and building a customer base allows you to
craft a presentation that addresses these issues head on.
You can share stories of successful entrepreneurs, offer insights into overcoming common hurdles,
and provide practical advice that your audience can apply in their own ventures.
This approach not only demonstrates your understanding of their situation, but also establishes a connection
built on trust and credibility.
Furthermore, understanding your audience on a deeper level helps in anticipating their questions and
objections.
This foresight enables you to prepare responses that are thoughtful and, more importantly, helpful.
It turns the presentation into a dialogue, a two way exchange where your audience feels seen and heard.
This level of engagement is what transforms a good presentation into an unforgettable one.
In conclusion, the essence of powerful presentations lies in the ability to connect with your audience
on a deeper level.
This connection is not just about sharing knowledge, it's about sharing value, understanding, and
empathy.
By investing the time to understand your audience's needs, concerns, and motivations, you set the
stage for a presentation that not only informs, but also transforms.
Remember, when you speak to the heart of your audience, you speak to the part of them that is ready
to listen, engage and act.

--- Adapting Your Message for Emotional Impact ---

Effective communication is not just about what you say, but how you say it.
Today we dive into the art of adapting your message for emotional impact, a skill that can transform
your presentations and connect deeply with your audience.
The ability to evoke emotions can significantly enhance the persuasiveness of your message, creating
a memorable and impactful experience for your listeners.
To begin, understanding your audience is paramount.
Different groups have unique values, concerns, and expectations.
Tailoring your message to resonate with these aspects can create a powerful emotional connection.
For instance, when speaking to an audience of young entrepreneurs emphasizing the themes of innovation,
resilience, and the journey to success can stir inspiration and motivation.
Storytelling is another critical tool in our arsenal.
Humans are naturally drawn to stories.
They are how we make sense of the world.
A well crafted story can convey your message in a way that facts and figures never could.
It makes your message relatable and memorable.
Imagine sharing a personal story of overcoming a challenge.
It not only humanizes you, but also builds a bridge of empathy with your audience, making your message
more impactful.
The choice of words and language plays a significant role in emotional impact.
Words have power.
They can arouse joy, provoke thought, or inspire action.
Consider the difference in impact between saying this strategy could improve outcomes, versus this
strategy can revolutionize the way we succeed.
The latter exudes confidence and excitement, likely to spur a more enthusiastic response from the audience.
Non-verbal cues are equally important.
Your body language, facial expressions, and tone of voice should align with the emotional tone of
your message.
Passion, sincerity, and enthusiasm are contagious and can significantly enhance the emotional impact
of your presentation.
For example, when discussing a topic you're passionate about, allowing your genuine enthusiasm to
shine through can captivate and energize your audience.
In conclusion, adapting your message for emotional impact is not about manipulation, but about authentic
connection.
It involves understanding your audience, utilizing storytelling, choosing impactful words, and aligning
your nonverbal cues with your message.
By mastering these elements, you can elevate your presentations, making them not only informative,
but truly transformative.
Remember, the goal is to not just reach the minds of your audience, but to touch their hearts as well.

--- Navigating Audience Emotions During Your Presentation ---

Understanding the intricate dance of human emotions is crucial for delivering presentations that resonate
deeply with your audience.
Today, we'll delve into how to navigate audience emotions during your presentation, transforming a
routine speech into a memorable experience.
At the heart of every successful presentation lies a strong connection between the speaker and the audience.
This connection is not just about conveying information, it's about touching hearts and minds.
To achieve this, one must first recognize the diverse emotional landscape of an audience.
People come with their expectations, fears, and hopes.
Your task as a presenter is to guide them through these emotions, leading them to a place of understanding
and inspiration.
Let's start with empathy, the cornerstone of emotional navigation, empathy allows you to put yourself
in your audience's shoes to feel what they feel.
When you approach your presentation with empathy, you're better equipped to tailor your message in
a way that speaks directly to their hearts.
For instance, if you're addressing a group of young entrepreneurs tapping into their fears of failure
and their hopes for success can make your message more impactful.
Another key aspect is anticipation.
By anticipating the emotional responses your presentation might evoke, you can plan and adjust your
delivery accordingly.
This involves choosing your words carefully, using stories or examples that elicit specific emotions,
and adjusting your tone and pace to match the mood you aim to set.
Imagine you're discussing a challenging topic like change management.
Anticipating resistance or anxiety allows you to address these feelings directly, perhaps by sharing
a personal story of overcoming similar challenges.
Feedback loops are your best friend in real time.
Emotional navigation.
Paying close attention to verbal cues, body language, and the overall energy of the room gives you
immediate insights into how your audience is feeling.
This feedback enables you to dynamically adjust your presentation.
For example, if you notice a wave of confusion or skepticism, you might slow down, clarify your points,
or engage the audience with a question.
Humor is a powerful tool for lighting the mood and creating a bond with your audience.
However, it must be used wisely and appropriately.
The right joke at the right time can break down barriers and warm up the audience, but misplaced humor
can alienate or offend.
Understanding your audience's cultural background and sensitivities is key to using humor effectively.
In conclusion, navigating audience emotions is an art that requires empathy, anticipation, responsiveness,
and sometimes a touch of humor.
By mastering these skills, you transform your presentations from mere speeches into powerful emotional
journeys.
Your aim is not just to inform, but to inspire.
Not just to speak, but to connect.
Remember, the most memorable presentations are those that leave the audience feeling understood, inspired,
and moved.

--- Leveraging Emotional Intelligence to Enhance Message Retention ---

Understanding the role of emotional intelligence in public speaking.
Emotional intelligence, often referred to as EQ, plays a pivotal role in enhancing the effectiveness
of your presentations.
At its core, emotional intelligence involves recognizing, understanding, and managing our own emotions
as well as perceiving and influencing the emotions of others.
In the realm of public speaking, leveraging EQ can significantly boost your ability to connect with
your audience, making your message more memorable and impactful.
Firstly, self-awareness, a key component of emotional intelligence, allows speakers to assess their
strengths and weaknesses effectively.
This introspection aids in tailoring presentations to utilize one's natural communicative strengths,
perhaps storytelling or humor, making the delivery more authentic and engaging.
An authentic speaker not only captures but retains the audience's attention, facilitating better understanding
and retention of the presented material.
Furthermore, self-regulation, another facet of EQ, enables speakers to manage stress and anxiety
that often accompany public speaking by mastering techniques to calm nerves and maintain composure.
Speakers can deliver their message more clearly and confidently.
Confidence in delivery ensures that the audience focuses on the message rather than the speaker's nervousness,
enhancing the overall impact of the presentation.
Empathy.
A critical aspect of emotional intelligence empowers speakers to understand and connect with their audience
on a deeper level.
An empathetic speaker can gauge the mood and interest of their audience, adjusting their delivery in
real time to maintain engagement.
This dynamic interaction makes the presentation not just a monologue, but a dialogue with the audience,
fostering a more impactful and memorable learning experience.
Moreover, social skills integral to emotional intelligence.
Equip speakers with the ability to effectively persuade and influence their audience by crafting messages
that resonate on an emotional level.
Speakers can inspire action, change, and deeper understanding of the subject matter.
The ability to evoke emotions such as excitement, curiosity, or empathy can transform a standard presentation
into an unforgettable experience.
In conclusion, emotional intelligence is not just a beneficial skill set for interpersonal relationships,
but a critical tool in the arsenal of effective public speakers.
By developing and utilizing emotional intelligence, speakers can enhance their presentations, making
them more engaging, persuasive, and memorable.
Whether you're addressing a boardroom, a classroom, or a conference hall, integrating emotional intelligence
into your public speaking efforts can lead to more impactful and resonant presentations, leaving a
lasting impression on your audience.

--- Rehearsal Techniques for Note-Free Speaking ---

Effective rehearsal strategies are essential for anyone looking to deliver presentations without relying
on notes.
The goal is to internalize your message so thoroughly that it feels like a part of you, allowing you
to speak with confidence and authenticity.
Today, we'll dive into techniques that can transform your rehearsal process and enhance memory retention.
First, let's focus on the power of visualization.
Visualization isn't just about seeing your success.
It's about mentally walking through your presentation, picturing the room, the audience, and even
your slides.
If you're using them.
By visualizing every aspect of your presentation, you're building a mental map, making it easier to
navigate your content without notes.
Next, consider the method of loci.
An ancient technique still relevant today.
This method involves associating sections of your presentation with specific physical locations, creating
a mental journey that helps you recall information in order.
Practicing your speech while imagining moving through these locations can dramatically improve your
memory of the material.
Chunking is another effective strategy.
This involves breaking down your presentation into smaller, manageable sections or chunks.
By focusing on mastering one chunk at a time, you reduce cognitive overload, making it easier to remember
the overall flow of your presentation.
This technique also allows you to recover more gracefully if you momentarily lose your place, as you
can easily jump to the next chunk.
Repetition, while it may seem obvious, is crucial.
However, it's not just about repeating your presentation verbatim multiple times.
Instead, focus on practicing out loud and in different settings.
This variability helps reinforce your memory and makes you more adaptable to unexpected conditions or
distractions during the actual presentation.
Lastly, teaching your content to someone else is a highly effective rehearsal method.
Explaining your material to another person forces you to clarify your thoughts and identify any areas
that need more refinement.
It also provides valuable feedback on how your content is received, allowing you to make necessary
adjustments before your final presentation.
In conclusion, mastering the art of presenting without notes is not about memorizing every word, but
about deeply understanding your material and being comfortable with the flow of your message.
By incorporating visualization, the method of loci, chunking, varied repetition, and teaching into
your rehearsal process, you can enhance your memory retention and deliver powerful note free presentations.
Embrace these strategies to communicate your ideas more effectively and connect with your audience on
a deeper level.

--- You've Achieved 75% >> Let's Celebrate Your Progress And Keep Going To 100% ---

75% three quarters of the way through.
Well done.
I'm so thrilled with your progress.
You are going to be successful.
You're going to get the skills you're looking for.
You're going to solve the problems and achieve the goals that you are aiming for in this course.
So keep going.
Three quarters of the way there, you've got only a quarter of the way to go.
You're further now than you've ever been, so congratulations and looking forward to celebrating your
certificate of achievement when we get to 100%.

--- Integrating Mental Mapping in Rehearsals ---

Imagine stepping onto a stage, facing a crowd, your heart racing but your mind perfectly clear.
You're about to deliver a presentation without a single glance at your notes.
This isn't just a dream.
It's a skill that can be mastered with the right techniques, specifically through the power of mental
mapping.
Mental mapping, or mind mapping, is a tool that transforms linear notes into a visual format, mirroring
the way our brains naturally operate.
It's about making connections, not just memorizing words.
Let's dive into how mental mapping can revolutionize your rehearsal process.
Picture this instead of scrolling through pages of text, you have a single, vivid image in your mind
that encapsulates your entire presentation.
Each branch of your mental map is a pathway to a new section of your talk, with keywords acting as
signposts.
This method harnesses the brain's innate ability to recall images and connections, making it easier
to retrieve information spontaneously during your presentation.
To begin, choose a central theme for your presentation and place it at the heart of your mental map.
From there, draw branches for each main idea or section of your talk.
These branches then further divide into subtopics, creating a comprehensive visual overview of your
content.
The beauty of a mental map is its flexibility.
It can be as detailed or as simple as you need it to be.
The key is to use vibrant imagery, symbols, and even colors to make the map uniquely memorable to
you.
Incorporating mental mapping into your rehearsals is a game changer.
Start by reviewing your map, then practice speaking through each section without looking at it.
Initially, you may need to glance back occasionally, but with practice you'll find yourself relying
on the map less and less.
This method not only improves your recall, but also makes your delivery more natural and engaging.
You're no longer tied to a script.
You're having a conversation with your audience.
But why stop at individual rehearsals?
Use mental mapping in your everyday life to strengthen your memory muscles.
Whether it's planning your day or organizing a project, the more you use this technique, the more
effective it becomes.
And when presentation day arrives, you'll stand before your audience confident and note free with your
entire speech mapped out in your mind.
In summary, mental mapping is not just a rehearsal tool.
It's a transformative approach to public speaking.
It allows you to internalize your content deeply, freeing you from the constraints of notes and prompting
a more authentic connection with your audience.
By visualizing your presentation as a dynamic, interconnected landscape, you unlock the full potential
of your memory and creativity.
So embrace mental mapping and watch as your presentations come to life.
Note free and full of impact.

--- Feedback Mechanisms to Improve Delivery ---

Effective communication is paramount in our daily interactions.
Yet the fear of public speaking often hampers our ability to convey our ideas confidently.
Today, we delve into the art of speaking without relying on notes, a skill that enhances your presentations
authenticity and engagement.
Imagine delivering your message with such clarity and conviction that your audience hangs on every word.
This is not just a skill, but a transformative practice that elevates your public speaking to new heights.
To begin, let's understand the foundation of note free presentations.
Mental mapping.
Mental mapping involves organizing your content in a logical sequence that's easy to remember.
Think of it as creating a mental picture of your presentation, with each main point serving as a landmark.
This technique taps into our inherent visual memory, making it easier to recall information during
your talk.
Next, we explore the method of storyboarding.
This approach involves crafting your presentation as a narrative with a clear beginning, middle, and
end.
Humans are naturally drawn to stories, and by embedding your key points within a narrative, you make
your content more relatable and memorable.
Storyboarding not only aids in memorization, but also ensures a more natural delivery as you're essentially
sharing a story rather than reciting data.
Practice is undeniably a critical component of mastering note free presentations.
However, the focus should be on practicing the flow of ideas rather than memorizing every word.
Engage in repeated rehearsals to familiarize yourself with the material, allowing for a more spontaneous
and authentic delivery during practice.
Simulate the presentation environment as closely as possible, including standing up and projecting
your voice to build comfort and confidence.
Incorporating memory aids can further enhance your ability to present without notes.
Techniques such as the method of loci, where you associate points of your presentation with physical
locations, or the use of mnemonic devices, can provide cues to trigger your memory during the presentation.
These aids are not meant to be a crutch, but rather a way to smoothly navigate through your material.
Feedback plays a crucial role in refining your note free presentation skills.
Seek out opportunities to present in front of friends, family, or colleagues and ask for honest feedback
on your delivery.
Clarity and engagement.
Use video recordings of your practice sessions to self-evaluate and identify areas for improvement.
Constructive criticism is invaluable in honing your presentation skills and building confidence.
In conclusion, speaking without notes is a powerful technique that brings authenticity and dynamism
to your presentations by utilizing mental mapping, storyboarding, focused practice, memory aids,
and feedback.
You can internalize your content and engage your audience with confidence.
Remember, the goal is not perfection, but connection.
As you embrace these strategies, you'll find yourself not only becoming a more effective communicator,
but also enjoying the process of public speaking.
Let's embark on this journey together, transforming fear into opportunity and presentations into impactful
conversations.

--- Solo vs. Group Rehearsal Sessions: Pros and Cons ---

When we think about rehearsing for a presentation, the image that often comes to mind is standing alone
in a room, talking to the walls and imagining an audience in front of us.
However, there's another side to rehearsal that can be equally beneficial, if not more so in certain
aspects.
Group rehearsal sessions.
Today, we're going to dive into the pros and cons of solo versus group rehearsal sessions to help you
decide the best approach for your next presentation.
Starting with solo rehearsals, the most obvious advantage is the level of personal comfort and flexibility
it offers.
You're in a safe space, free from the immediate judgment of others, which can significantly ease the
initial practice stages.
It allows you to experiment with different styles, tones, and pauses without the pressure of an audience.
Moreover, solo rehearsals give you the freedom to schedule practice sessions whenever it suits you,
making it easier to integrate into a busy lifestyle.
However, solo rehearsals aren't without their drawbacks.
The lack of feedback can be a significant disadvantage.
Without an external observer, it's challenging to gauge the effectiveness of your delivery.
The clarity of your message and the impact of your body language.
There's also the risk of developing and reinforcing bad habits without even realizing it, as there's
no one there to point them out.
On the flip side, group rehearsal sessions offer a dynamic that solo practice simply can't replicate.
The immediate feedback from peers can be incredibly valuable, providing insights into how your message
is received.
Areas of improvement, and even suggestions you might not have considered.
This feedback loop can accelerate your improvement, helping you refine your presentation at a much
faster rate.
Additionally, practicing in front of others can help mitigate the fear of public speaking.
It's a safe environment to get used to the sensation of eyes on you, interpreting audience reactions
and learning to adjust your delivery on the fly.
This experience can be invaluable in building confidence and presence.
However, group rehearsals also come with challenges.
Scheduling can be difficult as you need to coordinate with others, which can limit the frequency and
spontaneity of your practice sessions.
There's also the potential for negative dynamics.
Depending on the group's composition, feedback can sometimes be less about improvement and more about
personal preference, which can be misleading or disheartening.
In conclusion, both solo and group rehearsal sessions have their unique sets of advantages and disadvantages.
The choice between them should be based on your personal comfort level, the specific needs of your
presentation, and the availability of a supportive group.
A balanced approach incorporating both methods might often be the most effective strategy.
By practicing alone, you can hone your message and delivery in privacy.
Then, through group sessions, you can test the waters, gain valuable feedback, and build the confidence
needed to deliver a powerful, note free presentation.
Remember, the goal of rehearsal is not just to practice what you're going to say, but how you're going
to say it.
Making your message resonate with your audience in the most impactful way possible.

--- Recording and Reviewing Your Practice Sessions ---

In today's fast paced world, the ability to communicate effectively is more crucial than ever.
One of the most powerful tools in your arsenal is your voice.
But how do you ensure that your message is not just heard, but also understood and remembered?
The answer lies in mastering the art of speaking without reading notes.
This technique not only enhances your authenticity, but also elevates your authority as a speaker.
Let's dive into the strategies and practices that can help you achieve this.
Firstly, understanding the psychology behind why speaking without notes is so impactful is essential.
When you speak without looking down at a script, your eyes are free to engage with your audience.
This eye contact builds trust and connection, making your listeners more receptive to your message.
Moreover, it allows you to read the room and adjust your delivery as needed, ensuring that your message
resonates.
One effective method to internalize your speech is through the practice of recording and reviewing your
sessions.
This might seem daunting at first, but it's a powerful tool for improvement.
Start by recording a video of yourself delivering your presentation.
Don't worry about perfection.
Focus on getting your message across as authentically as possible.
After recording, take the time to review the footage.
Pay attention to your body language, your tone of voice, and how well you maintain eye contact.
These elements can significantly affect how your message is received.
Notice any moments where you seem to falter or lose engagement with your imagined audience.
These are areas for improvement.
Next, focus on the content of your presentation.
Can you identify the key points you want your audience to remember?
A useful technique here is to structure your presentation around these points, using them as anchors.
This not only helps you to remember the flow of your presentation, but also ensures that your audience
takes away the intended message.
Another critical aspect of speaking without notes is the use of mental mapping.
This technique involves creating a mental image of your presentation structure, where each key point
leads naturally to the next.
Practice visualizing this map and walk yourself through it repeatedly.
Over time, this map will become second nature, allowing you to navigate your presentation effortlessly
without relying on notes.
In addition to mental mapping, incorporating storytelling into your presentations can greatly enhance
your ability to speak without notes.
Stories are not only easier to remember than abstract information, but they also create emotional connections
with your audience by weaving your key points into a narrative.
You make your presentation more engaging and memorable.
Finally, the importance of practice cannot be overstated.
The more you practice your presentation, the more comfortable you will become with the material.
This comfort allows you to focus on delivery rather than trying to remember what comes next.
Each practice session is an opportunity to refine your presentation, making it more concise, impactful,
and tailored to your audience.
In conclusion, speaking without reading notes is a skill that can significantly enhance your effectiveness
as a communicator.
By recording and reviewing your practice sessions, focusing on key points, utilizing mental mapping
and storytelling, and committing to regular practice, you can master this skill.
Remember, the goal is not just to deliver a presentation, but to connect, engage, and leave a lasting
impression on your audience.

--- The Psychology Behind Fear of Public Speaking ---

Public speaking.
Anxiety is a common challenge that many of us face, affecting individuals across various professions
and walks of life.
Today, we delve into the root causes of this fear to better understand and overcome it.
At the heart of public speaking, anxiety lies the fear of judgment or negative evaluation by others.
This fear often stems from a lack of confidence in one's ability to convey messages effectively, or
the worry that one's ideas might not be well received.
Additionally, past experiences can significantly influence one's level of anxiety.
Negative or embarrassing public speaking experiences in the past can leave lasting impressions, making
the prospect of future speaking engagements daunting.
Another critical factor is the fear of the unknown.
This includes worrying about forgetting one's speech, technical difficulties, or being unable to answer
questions from the audience.
Such uncertainties can amplify anxiety, making the speaker feel less in control.
Preparation plays a crucial role in mitigating this fear.
However, overpreparation without the right techniques can sometimes backfire, leading to an increased
focus on memorization rather than understanding and connecting with the material.
Personality traits also contribute to public speaking anxiety.
Introverts, for example, might find the exposure and attention involved in public speaking overwhelming,
unlike their extroverted counterparts who might thrive in such situations.
It's important to note, however, that anyone can improve their public speaking skills with practice
and the right strategies, regardless of their personality type.
The societal pressure to perform flawlessly is another contributing factor.
In today's perfection driven culture, there's often an unrealistic expectation to deliver presentations
without any hitches.
This pressure can exacerbate the fear of making mistakes, making the speaker more anxious.
Understanding these root causes is the first step towards overcoming public speaking anxiety.
Recognizing that these fears are common and that there are strategies to manage them, can empower individuals
to tackle their anxieties head on.
Techniques such as deep breathing, positive visualization and structured practice can help build confidence
and reduce the fear associated with public speaking.
Remember, the goal isn't to eliminate anxiety entirely, but to learn to manage it effectively, turning
it into a driving force rather than a hindrance.
In conclusion, public speaking anxiety is a multifaceted issue, influenced by fear of judgment, past
experiences, fear of the unknown, personality traits, and societal pressures.
By acknowledging these factors and employing targeted strategies to address them, individuals can significantly
improve their comfort and effectiveness as public speakers.
The journey to becoming a confident speaker is a process of continuous learning and practice, but with
the right approach, it's an achievable goal for anyone willing to put in the effort.

--- Reframing Your Perspective on Audience Judgement ---

Facing an audience can be daunting, especially when the fear of judgment looms large.
However, mastering the art of speaking without notes requires us to shift our perspective on how we
view audience judgment.
Let's dive into strategies that help transform this fear into a powerful tool for engaging and impactful
presentations.
Imagine stepping onto the stage, your heart racing, palms sweating and all eyes on you.
The common fear here is of being judged negatively by the audience.
But what if we could reframe this fear into something positive?
Understanding that your audience actually wants you to succeed is the first step.
When you speak, most listeners are rooting for you.
They're there to learn, be inspired, or be entertained.
They're not looking for flaws to critique, but for value to take away.
Acknowledging this can dramatically shift your mindset.
Instead of focusing on the negative what ifs, concentrate on the positive impact you can have.
Remember, communication is a two way street.
Your audience's reactions provide valuable feedback, allowing you to adjust and connect more deeply.
This dynamic interaction is the essence of effective speaking and is greatly enhanced when you're not
tied to notes.
Now let's talk about authenticity.
Speaking without notes doesn't just free your hands, it frees your authenticity.
You become more present, more genuine, and more relatable.
This authenticity is what breaks down the barriers between you and your audience, transforming judgment
into connection.
The key here is preparation.
Knowing your material inside out allows you to speak from the heart, not just the mind.
Techniques like the Memory palace or storyboarding can help you internalize your message, making it
part of you rather than something you're trying to recall.
But what about when things don't go as planned?
Here's where embracing imperfection becomes your strength.
The occasional stumble or forgotten word is human and can actually endear you to your audience.
It's your recovery and your ability to keep moving forward that showcases your confidence and mastery
of the subject.
In conclusion, reframing your perspective on audience judgment is a crucial step in becoming a compelling
speaker who can confidently stand before an audience without notes.
By understanding that your audience is on your side, embracing your authenticity and preparing thoroughly,
you'll not only overcome the fear of judgment, but also engage and inspire those listening.
Remember, the goal is not to deliver a flawless performance, but to connect and communicate effectively,
making your message memorable and impactful for.

--- Strategies for Gradually Overcoming Speaking Fears ---

Overcoming the fear of public speaking is a journey that many of us embark on, but not everyone knows
where to start.
Today, we're diving into strategies that can help you gradually overcome this common fear, enabling
you to speak confidently without relying on notes.
Imagine standing in front of an audience, your mind clear, your heart steady and your words flowing
effortlessly.
This scenario is not as far fetched as it might seem.
The first step in conquering speaking fears is understanding the root of your anxiety.
For many, the fear stems from a lack of confidence or the worry of forgetting what to say.
Recognizing this allows us to tackle the issue head on with targeted strategies.
One effective method is the practice of visualization.
Picture yourself delivering a successful speech.
The audience engaged and responsive.
This mental rehearsal can significantly boost your confidence and reduce anxiety over time.
Another key strategy is to familiarize yourself with your content to the point where notes become unnecessary.
This doesn't mean memorizing your speech word for word, but rather understanding the flow of your ideas.
Creating a mental map of your presentation can help you navigate your content smoothly, even if you
momentarily lose your place.
Engaging in regular practice sessions, particularly in front of a supportive audience, can also make
a world of difference.
Feedback from these sessions can pinpoint areas for improvement and affirm your strengths.
Gradually building your confidence.
Additionally, recording your practice sessions and reviewing them can provide insights into your speaking
style and help you become more comfortable with your public persona.
It's also beneficial to focus on the message you're trying to convey rather than on yourself.
Shifting the focus from how you're perceived to the value you're providing, your audience can alleviate
the pressure and make the speaking experience more fulfilling.
Remember, your audience is there to gain insights from you there.
Rooting for your success, not your downfall.
Lastly, embracing the power of pause can transform your speaking style.
Pauses allow you to collect your thoughts and give your audience time to absorb the information.
This technique not only helps in delivering a more impactful speech, but also provides moments of rest
for you as the speaker.
In conclusion.
Overcoming the fear of public speaking is a gradual process that requires patience, practice, and
persistence.
By understanding the source of your anxiety, visualizing success, mastering your content, seeking
feedback, focusing on your message, and embracing the power of pause, you can develop the confidence
to speak without relying on notes.
The journey may be challenging, but the reward of being able to communicate your ideas effectively
and authentically is immeasurable.
Let's embark on this journey together, step by step towards becoming more confident and compelling
speakers.

--- Celebrating Progress: Tracking Your Speaking Confidence Growth ---

What makes an effective leader in today's rapidly changing business landscape?
Leadership is no longer just about giving orders and expecting compliance.
It's about inspiring, guiding and empowering others to achieve their best.
At the heart of modern leadership lies emotional intelligence, the ability to understand and manage
your own emotions and to recognise and influence the emotions of others.
This skill is crucial for building strong teams, fostering a positive work environment, and driving
successful outcomes.
Emotional intelligence consists of several key components including self-awareness, self-regulation,
motivation, empathy, and social skills.
Self-awareness allows leaders to understand their strengths and weaknesses as well as how their actions
affect others.
This insight is invaluable for personal development and for creating authentic connections with team
members.
Self-regulation involves managing one's emotions, especially in stressful or challenging situations,
ensuring that decisions are made calmly and rationally.
Motivation and leadership goes beyond personal ambition.
It's about inspiring others to strive for shared goals and to find meaning in their work.
A leader with high emotional intelligence can foster a sense of purpose and enthusiasm within their
team.
Driving performance and innovation.
Empathy.
The ability to understand and share the feelings of others is critical for effective communication and
conflict resolution.
It allows leaders to connect with team members on a deeper level, building trust and loyalty.
Finally, social skills are essential for managing relationships and building networks.
Leaders with strong social skills are adept at communication, negotiation, and conflict resolution.
They know how to motivate and influence others, how to give constructive feedback, and how to champion
change.
In today's fast paced and complex business environment.
Emotional intelligence is more than just a desirable trait.
It's a foundational element of effective leadership.
It enables leaders to navigate the challenges of the modern workplace, to foster innovation and resilience,
and to create a culture of inclusivity and collaboration.
By prioritizing emotional intelligence, leaders can drive their organizations toward success while
also contributing to the personal and professional growth of their team members.
In conclusion, the role of emotional intelligence in leadership cannot be overstated.
It's the key to unlocking potential, overcoming challenges, and achieving excellence.
As we look to the future, it's clear that leaders who cultivate these skills will be best positioned
to lead their organizations to new heights.
Embracing emotional intelligence is not just a strategy for success, it's a commitment to a more effective,
empathetic, and human centric approach to leadership.

--- Performance Improvement and Self-Reflection ---

Effective communication is a cornerstone of personal and professional success.
One of the most powerful tools at our disposal is the art of speaking.
Today we dive into the intricacies of speaking without reading notes, a skill that can significantly
enhance your presentation abilities and audience engagement.
Imagine standing in front of an audience, delivering your message with confidence, clarity, and conviction,
all without glancing at a piece of paper or a prompter.
This might seem daunting at first, but with the right techniques and practice, it's entirely achievable.
Let's explore how you can master this skill.
Firstly, understanding your material is crucial.
This doesn't mean memorizing your speech word for word, but rather knowing the subject matter so well
that you can discuss it freely.
This requires deep engagement with your content, identifying key points, and structuring your message
in a way that flows logically.
Visualization is a powerful technique in this learning process.
By creating a mental map of your speech, you can visualize the journey you want to take your audience
on.
This might involve associating parts of your speech with physical movements or locations.
A method known as the Memory palace technique, which can significantly aid in recall.
Another essential aspect is practice.
Practice not just until you get it right, but until you can't get it wrong.
This involves rehearsing out loud in front of a mirror, or even recording yourself to critique your
performance.
Each iteration will improve your fluency and reduce your reliance on notes.
Engaging with your audience is also key to speaking without notes.
Eye contact, for instance, helps in creating a connection with your audience, making your delivery
more personal and impactful.
It also provides you with immediate feedback on how your message is being received, allowing you to
adjust your delivery in real time.
Finally, embracing imperfections plays a significant role in this process.
Understand that every speaker makes mistakes and it's your response to these mistakes that defines your
speaking prowess.
A forgotten line or a misplaced word is not a failure, but an opportunity to showcase your ability
to recover gracefully and keep the audience engaged.
In conclusion, speaking without reading notes is a skill that enhances the effectiveness of your communication,
making your presentations more engaging and memorable.
By understanding your material, utilizing visualization, practicing diligently, engaging with your
audience, and embracing imperfections, you can become a more confident and impactful speaker.
Remember, the goal is not perfection, but connection.
Let your passion for the subject shine through and your message will resonate with your audience.

--- Continuous Improvement in Your Speaking Skills ---

Effective communication is the cornerstone of personal and professional success.
In today's lesson, we delve into the art of persuasive speaking, a skill that, when mastered, can
significantly influence your audience's perceptions, decisions, and actions.
Persuasive speaking goes beyond merely presenting facts.
It's about crafting your message in a way that resonates with your audience, compels them to consider
new perspectives, and motivates them to take action.
At the heart of persuasive speaking lies the understanding of your audience.
Knowing who you are speaking to, what matters to them, and how they perceive the world enables you
to tailor your message in a way that is both relatable and compelling.
This connection is crucial as it builds trust and credibility, making your audience more open to your
message.
The structure of your speech plays a pivotal role in its effectiveness.
A well-organized presentation with a clear introduction, body, and conclusion helps in maintaining
the audience's attention and reinforcing your key points.
Start with a strong opening to grab their interest, followed by the body where you present your arguments
supported by evidence, and conclude with a powerful closing statement that leaves a lasting impression.
Emotional appeal is another essential element of persuasive speaking.
People are driven by emotions as much as by logic.
By tapping into the audience's emotions, you can create a strong connection and make your message more
memorable.
Stories, anecdotes, and vivid examples are effective tools for evoking emotions and illustrating your
points in a way that factual data alone cannot.
The use of rhetorical devices such as repetition, analogies, and rhetorical questions can also enhance
your speech's persuasive power.
These techniques can emphasize your message and make your speech more engaging and memorable.
However, the impact of your speech is not determined by words alone.
Non-verbal cues, including body language, facial expressions, and tone of voice, play a significant
role in conveying your message and influencing your audience.
Being aware of and controlling these cues can enhance your credibility and persuasive appeal of your
speech.
In conclusion, persuasive speaking is an art that involves understanding your audience, structuring
your message effectively, appealing to emotions, employing rhetorical techniques, and mastering nonverbal
communication.
By honing these skills, you can become a more influential speaker capable of inspiring change and motivating
action, whether in a boardroom, at a conference, or during a casual conversation, the ability to
persuade effectively is a powerful tool in achieving your goals and making an impact.

--- Gathering and Integrating Constructive Feedback ---

Effective communication is a cornerstone of professional success, and the ability to give a powerful
presentation without relying on notes is a skill that sets apart competent speakers from truly memorable
ones.
Today, we delve into the art of gathering and integrating constructive feedback to refine our presentation
skills to perfection.
To begin with, understanding the value of feedback is crucial.
Constructive feedback, when received and applied thoughtfully, can transform a good presentation into
an outstanding one.
It offers fresh perspectives, highlights areas for improvement, and provides insights that you might
overlook when preparing solo.
The key, however, lies in not just receiving feedback, but actively seeking it from a diverse range
of sources.
Colleagues, mentors, and even audiences can offer invaluable insights into your performance.
Once feedback is received, the next step is to analyze it objectively.
This involves separating the content of the feedback from the emotions it might evoke.
Remember, the goal of feedback is improvement, not criticism.
Look for patterns in the feedback you receive.
If multiple sources highlight the same issue, it's a clear indicator of where your focus should lie.
Equally important is recognizing positive feedback.
Understanding what works well in your presentations can be just as beneficial as knowing what doesn't.
Integrating feedback into your presentations is where the real work begins.
This is not about making wholesale changes based on every piece of advice received, but rather about
discerning which suggestions align with your objectives and speaking style.
For instance, if you've been advised to make more eye contact but find it challenging to do so while
also managing your content, practice techniques that allow you to glance at notes briefly without losing
connection with your audience.
Practical application of feedback is a skill in itself.
It involves trial and error and the willingness to step out of your comfort zone.
Perhaps you've been told your presentations lack a personal touch.
Integrating a short, personal story relevant to your topic can not only make your presentation more
relatable, but also more memorable.
Similarly, if pacing is an issue, experiment with different ways to structure your presentation to
allow for natural pauses and emphasis.
In conclusion, the journey to becoming a compelling speaker who can captivate an audience without the
crutch of notes is ongoing and iterative.
Gathering and integrating constructive feedback plays a pivotal role in this journey.
It's about continuously honing your skills, refining your delivery, and embracing the vulnerability
that comes with exposing your work to critique.
Remember, every piece of feedback is a stepping stone towards not just becoming a better speaker,
but a more effective communicator.
Embrace it with an open mind and a commitment to growth, and the improvements will be evident in every
presentation you deliver henceforth.

--- The Role of Self-Reflection in Professional Growth ---

Effective communication is a cornerstone of professional success, and nowhere is this more evident
than in the art of delivering presentations.
Today we delve into a critical yet often overlooked aspect of presentation skills the ability to speak
without relying on notes.
This skill not only enhances your credibility as a speaker, but also fosters a deeper connection with
your audience.
Let's unpack the strategies and techniques that can empower you to deliver your next presentation with
confidence and authenticity, free from the shackles of your notes.
At the heart of note free presentations lies the concept of internalization, not memorization.
It's about understanding your material so thoroughly that it becomes a part of you, allowing you to
discuss it naturally and fluidly.
This deep level of familiarity with your content is achieved through a series of strategic steps, starting
with the structuring of your presentation.
Crafting a clear, logical flow of ideas is paramount.
Think of your presentation as a story with a beginning, middle, and end.
This narrative structure not only aids your recall, but also makes your presentation more engaging
for your audience.
Next, we explore the technique of mental mapping.
This involves visualizing your presentation as a journey through a series of interconnected ideas.
Each main point on your map is a stop along the way, with detailed sub points serving as the scenery
you pass.
This method leverages the brain's natural spatial memory, making it easier to navigate through your
presentation without the need for notes.
Practice, of course, plays a crucial role in mastering note free presentations.
However, it's not just about repetition, it's about practicing with purpose.
Focus on the flow of ideas, the transitions between points, and the key messages you want to convey.
As you practice, pay attention to your pacing, tone, and body language as well.
These nonverbal cues are powerful tools that can help reinforce your message and engage your audience.
Another invaluable technique is the use of anecdotes and personal stories.
These elements add a layer of authenticity and relatability to your presentation.
Notation.
They serve as memorable markers that can help you and your audience navigate through your presentation.
Moreover, stories and examples make complex information more accessible and easier to understand.
Finally, embracing the power of pause can significantly enhance your presentation skills.
Pauses allow you to collect your thoughts, give your audience time to absorb information, and add
emphasis to key points.
Mastering the strategic use of pauses can transform your presentation from a monologue into a dynamic,
interactive experience.
In conclusion, speaking without notes is a skill that can dramatically elevate your effectiveness as
a communicator.
It requires a deep understanding of your material, strategic preparation and mindful practice.
By employing techniques such as mental mapping, purposeful practice, and the use of stories, you
can deliver presentations that are not only informative, but also engaging and memorable.
Remember, the goal is not to memorize your presentation, but to internalize it, allowing you to connect
with your audience on a deeper level and leave a lasting impact.

--- Creating a Plan for Ongoing Speaking Excellence ---

What makes an effective leader in today's rapidly changing business environment?
Leadership is no longer just about setting directions or managing tasks.
It's about inspiring others, fostering innovation, and building resilient teams that can navigate
challenges.
At the heart of modern leadership lies emotional intelligence.
This key attribute enables leaders to connect with their team members on a deeper level, understand
their needs, and motivate them towards achieving common goals.
Emotional intelligence comprises self-awareness, self-regulation, motivation, empathy, and social
skills.
Each component plays a critical role in leadership.
Self-awareness allows leaders to understand their emotions, strengths, and weaknesses, which is crucial
for personal development and making informed decisions.
Self-regulation involves managing one's emotions and impulses, which is vital in maintaining a positive
and productive work environment.
Motivation is what drives leaders to pursue goals with energy and persistence, even in the face of
adversity.
Empathy.
The ability to understand and share the feelings of others is essential for building strong, trust
based relationships.
Lastly, social skills enable leaders to manage relationships and networks, effectively, negotiate
conflicts, and work well in a team.
Incorporating emotional intelligence into leadership practices can significantly impact an organization's
success.
Leaders who demonstrate high emotional intelligence can better manage stress, inspire and motivate
their teams, foster a positive work culture, and navigate the complexities of the modern business
landscape.
They are adept at recognizing their team member's emotional states and adjusting their leadership approach
accordingly to meet both individual and organizational needs.
Moreover, emotionally intelligent leaders are more likely to inspire loyalty and engagement among their
team members, leading to increased productivity and reduced turnover rates.
They understand the importance of giving and receiving feedback, encouraging open communication, and
promoting personal and professional growth within their teams.
In conclusion, emotional intelligence is a fundamental component of effective leadership in today's
business world.
By developing and honing these skills, leaders can create more cohesive, motivated, and resilient
teams capable of overcoming challenges and achieving success.
As we navigate the complexities of the 21st century workplace, the role of emotional intelligence in
leadership will only continue to grow in importance, shaping the future of how we work and lead.

--- Leveraging Peer and Mentor Feedback ---

Effective communication is the cornerstone of any successful presentation.
But the true magic happens when you can engage with your audience without the crutch of notes or prompts.
Today, we dive into the art of delivering presentations that resonate, connect, and leave a lasting
impact, all without once glancing down at your notes.
Imagine stepping onto the stage.
Your mind clear, your message internalized, and your audience captivated.
This isn't a skill reserved for the few.
It's an art that can be mastered with the right techniques and practice.
The journey to note free presentations begins with understanding the power of storytelling.
A well-told story can transport your audience, making complex ideas accessible and memorable.
Instead of memorizing data and bullet points, focus on the narrative that ties your message together.
Next, let's explore the method of mental mapping.
This technique involves organizing your content visually in your mind, much like a map that guides
you through your presentation.
Each major point is a landmark with details forming the paths between them.
This method not only aids in memorization, but also makes your delivery more natural and fluid.
Practice is undeniably crucial in this process.
However, it's not just about rehearsing your presentation from start to finish.
Break it down into sections.
Perfect each one, then piece them together.
This segmented approach makes memorization more manageable and reduces the overwhelm of learning an
entire presentation by heart.
But what happens when you lose your place or a distraction throws you off course?
This is where the skill of improvisation becomes invaluable.
Being able to ad lib and return to your mental map without panic is a sign of a seasoned speaker.
It's about embracing the unexpected, not fearing it.
Confidence plays a pivotal role in your ability to deliver a note free presentation.
This confidence doesn't just stem from knowing your material inside and out.
It also comes from a deep belief in your message and its value to your audience.
When you stand behind your words with conviction, your audience will stand with you.
In conclusion, the path to delivering engaging note free presentations is paved with storytelling,
mental mapping, diligent practice, improvisation, and unwavering confidence.
Each element builds upon the other, creating a foundation for a presentation style that is not only
effective, but truly unforgettable.
As you embark on this journey, remember that the goal is not perfection, but connection.
Your audience isn't looking for a flawless performance.
They're looking for authenticity, insight, and a message that resonates.
Embrace these techniques and watch as your presentations transform from scripted speeches to impactful
conversations.

--- Creating a Support System for Feedback ---

Critique is a powerful tool that, when received and utilized effectively, can significantly enhance
your presentation skills.
It's important to approach feedback with an open mind, understanding that constructive criticism is
not a personal attack, but an opportunity for growth.
Let's dive into how to effectively receive and utilize critiques to improve your speaking abilities.
Firstly, actively listen to the feedback without interrupting or defending your work.
It's crucial to understand the perspective of the person providing the critique.
They may have noticed aspects of your presentation that were not apparent to you.
By listening attentively, you can gain valuable insights into how your message is perceived by others.
Secondly, ask for specific examples to clarify the feedback.
General comments like it didn't flow well can be difficult to act on without further detail.
Requesting examples can help you identify specific areas for improvement and understand the critique
more deeply.
Once you've received the feedback, take some time to reflect on it.
Consider how it aligns with your goals for the presentation, and identify actionable steps you can
take to address the concerns raised.
This might involve adjusting your content, changing your delivery style, or practicing certain elements
of your presentation more thoroughly.
Implementing the feedback is where the real growth happens.
Use the critique as a guide for revising your presentation.
This might mean reorganizing your content for better flow.
Working on your vocal delivery or incorporating more engaging visuals.
The key is to apply the feedback in a way that enhances your strengths and addresses your weaknesses.
Finally, seek out opportunities to practice your revised presentation and gather more feedback.
This iterative process of receiving, reflecting on, and implementing critique is crucial for continuous
improvement.
Each round of feedback provides new insights, helping you refine your presentation skills further.
In summary, effectively receiving and utilizing critiques involves listening, actively seeking clarification,
reflecting on the feedback, implementing changes, and continuing to seek out feedback for ongoing
improvement.
By embracing critique as a tool for growth, you can enhance your presentation skills and deliver more
impactful, engaging presentations.

--- Finding a Mentor for Public Speaking Improvement ---

Finding the right mentor can significantly accelerate your journey towards becoming an exceptional public
speaker.
Imagine having a guide who not only shares insights from their experiences, but also provides personalized
feedback that sharpens your skills.
Today, we dive into the process of identifying and engaging with a mentor who can transform your public
speaking abilities.
The journey begins with understanding what you specifically need in a mentor.
Are you looking for someone to refine your storytelling, enhance your stage presence, or maybe help
you master the art of persuasion?
Identifying your needs sets the stage for finding a mentor whose strengths align with your areas for
improvement.
Once you've pinpointed your needs, the next step is to look for potential mentors.
This search can take you to professional networking sites, speaking clubs like Toastmasters, or even
within your own professional network.
Remember, a mentor doesn't always have to be a seasoned professional speaker.
Sometimes a colleague with a knack for captivating presentations can provide invaluable insights.
Approaching a potential mentor requires tact and respect for their time.
A concise, well crafted message that outlines why you admire their skills and how you believe their
mentorship could help.
You can open the door to a fruitful relationship.
Be specific about what you're asking for.
Whether it's a monthly meeting, a review of your speeches, or practice sessions together, building
a relationship with your mentor is a two way street.
It's not just about taking, it's also about giving back.
Show appreciation for their time and insights.
Share your progress and how their advice has helped you improve.
This not only strengthens your relationship, but also makes the mentoring experience rewarding for
both parties.
In conclusion, finding a mentor for public speaking is a strategic step towards unlocking your full
potential as a speaker.
It's about identifying your needs, searching in the right places, approaching with respect, and nurturing
the relationship with the right mentor by your side, you'll find yourself navigating the path to public
speaking excellence with greater confidence and skill.
Let's embrace the journey of mentorship and transform our speaking abilities into unparalleled strengths.

--- The Role of Peer Groups in Skill Enhancement ---

How do peer groups influence the development of presentation skills, and why are they a critical component
in mastering the art of speaking without notes?
Engaging in peer groups offers a unique platform for individuals to practice, receive feedback, and
refine their presentation techniques in a supportive environment.
Let's delve into the mechanisms through which peer groups enhance our ability to deliver compelling,
note free presentations.
Peer groups act as a mirror, reflecting our strengths and areas for improvement in real time.
When we present in front of peers, we're not just speaking to an audience.
We're engaging with a group of individuals who understand our journey and are invested in our growth.
This dynamic fosters an atmosphere of trust and openness, making it easier to accept and act on feedback.
Constructive criticism from peers can pinpoint specific aspects of our presentation style that need
work, whether it's our pacing, clarity, or use of gestures providing a focused direction for improvement.
Moreover, peer groups serve as a laboratory for experimentation.
They offer a safe space to try out new techniques, such as memory aids or storytelling methods, without
the high stakes of a professional setting.
This freedom to experiment is crucial for discovering what works best for us as individual speakers.
It allows us to fine tune our approach to presenting without notes, integrating feedback and personal
insights to develop a style that feels both authentic and effective.
The collaborative nature of peer groups also accelerates learning.
Watching peers present, sharing strategies and discussing what works and what doesn't exposes us to
a wide range of skills and techniques.
This collective wisdom is invaluable.
It can inspire us to adopt new practices and avoid common pitfalls.
The diversity of perspectives within a peer group enriches our understanding and approach to presenting,
pushing us to explore angles and techniques we might not have considered on our own.
Furthermore, peer groups provide a platform for repeated practice, which is essential for internalizing
content and building confidence.
The more we present in front of our peers, the more comfortable we become with our material and our
ability to communicate it without relying on notes.
This repeated practice helps to cement our presentation into our memory, making it easier to recall
and adapt during live presentations.
In conclusion, peer groups play a pivotal role in mastering the art of presenting without notes.
They offer a supportive environment for receiving targeted feedback, encourage experimentation with
new techniques, facilitate collaborative learning, and provide opportunities for repeated practice.
By leveraging the power of peer groups, we can enhance our presentation skills, making our delivery
more confident, engaging, and impactful.
Embracing this collaborative approach to learning not only improves our own abilities, but also contributes
to the collective skill set of the group, creating a cycle of continuous improvement and support.

--- Beyond the Presentation ---

Personal branding through powerful presentations is a transformative skill that sets you apart in the
professional world.
Imagine stepping onto a stage, fully confident, connecting with your audience without once glancing
at your notes.
This is the essence of effective personal branding.
It's not just about what you say, it's how you say it that resonates with people.
Today, we delve into the art of crafting and delivering presentations that not only inform, but inspire.
The cornerstone of a memorable presentation is authenticity.
Authenticity creates a genuine connection with your audience.
It's about being true to yourself and your message.
This doesn't mean you share personal stories at every turn, but it does mean that your passion for
the topic is palpable when you speak from a place of sincerity.
Your audience is more likely to trust and engage with you.
Now let's talk about structure.
A well structured presentation is a roadmap that guides your audience through your message.
Start with a clear introduction that outlines what you'll cover and why it matters.
This sets the expectation and hooks your audience's interest.
Then, as you move through your main points, make sure each one builds upon the last, leading smoothly
to your conclusion.
This logical flow makes it easier for your audience to follow and retain your message.
Visual aids are another powerful tool in your presentation arsenal.
They should enhance your message, not detract from it.
Use visuals sparingly and ensure they're high quality and relevant.
Remember, your slides are there to support your narrative, not replace it.
The focus should always be on you, the speaker.
Engagement is key to a successful presentation.
This doesn't mean you need to pepper your speech with jokes.
Unless humor is a natural part of your style.
Engagement can come from asking rhetorical questions, using pauses effectively, or incorporating Storytelling
stories are particularly powerful, they can illustrate complex points in a relatable way and evoke
emotions, making your message more memorable.
Finally, practice is paramount.
The more familiar you are with your material, the easier it is to present without notes.
This doesn't mean memorizing your speech word for word, which can come across as robotic.
Instead, focus on the main concepts and practice articulating them in various ways.
This flexibility allows you to maintain eye contact with your audience, adapt on the fly, and deliver
a more dynamic presentation.
In conclusion, personal branding through powerful presentations is an art form that combines authenticity,
structure, visual aids, engagement, and practice.
By mastering these elements, you can deliver presentations that not only convey your message, but
also leave a lasting impression on your audience.
Remember, the goal is not just to inform, but to inspire and influence.

--- Personal Branding through Powerful Presentations ---

Effective communication in today's digital age requires a consistent message across various platforms.
Whether you're presenting in a boardroom, speaking at a conference, or engaging with your audience
on social media.
The ability to maintain this consistency is not just about repeating the same words.
It's about ensuring your core message resonates with your audience, regardless of the medium through
which it is delivered.
Let's delve into the strategies that can help you achieve this.
To begin, understanding your audience is paramount.
The same individual might interact with your content in different settings, expecting a coherent message
that aligns with their perception of your brand or persona.
This doesn't mean you can't tailor your message.
It means the essence of your message should remain unchanged.
For example, a professional might watch your presentation in a formal setting and later encounter a
related post on LinkedIn.
The tone might adjust from formal to semi-formal, but the underlying message, the value proposition,
should be unmistakable.
Another crucial aspect is the art of storytelling.
A well crafted story transcends the medium.
Whether you're delivering a keynote or tweeting, the narrative should captivate your audience and drive
home the same core message.
Consider how major brands seamlessly weave their narratives across commercials, social media, and
press releases.
They craft stories that not only engage, but also reinforce their brand's message, values, and goals.
Moreover, feedback loops are essential.
Engage with your audience across platforms to understand how your message is received.
This direct feedback can offer insights into whether your message is consistent and resonating as intended.
It's an opportunity to refine your approach, ensuring that your communication is not only consistent
but also effective.
Visual consistency also plays a significant role.
Visual elements like logos, color schemes, and typography should be uniform across all platforms.
This visual consistency aids in reinforcing your message by making it instantly recognizable, thereby
enhancing brand recall.
Think of how a consistent visual identity aids brands like Apple or Coca-Cola in maintaining a coherent
message across all touchpoints.
In conclusion, messaging consistency across different platforms is not just about repeating the same
speech or post, it's about ensuring that the core message tailored to the medium and audience resonates
through every word, image and interaction.
By understanding your audience, leveraging the power of storytelling, engaging in feedback loops,
and maintaining visual consistency, you can ensure that your message not only reaches, but also impacts
your audience regardless of the platform.
This approach not only strengthens your brand, but also builds trust and credibility with your audience,
paving the way for successful communication in the digital age.

--- Messaging Consistency Across Different Platforms ---

Public speaking has long been recognized as a powerful tool for leaders and influencers across various
sectors.
It's the art of conveying ideas effectively and persuasively, a skill that's indispensable for anyone
aiming to establish themselves as a thought leader.
Today, we delve into how public speaking serves as a cornerstone in the realm of thought leadership.
At its core, thought leadership is about setting trends, inspiring change, and leading discussions
on important issues.
It's not just about having innovative ideas, but also about the ability to share those ideas in a way
that captivates and motivates others.
This is where public speaking comes into play.
A well-delivered speech can transform abstract concepts into tangible visions that people can connect
with, understand, and remember.
One of the key aspects of successful public speaking is authenticity.
In a world saturated with information, authenticity cuts through the noise, allowing speakers to form
genuine connections with their audience.
This connection is crucial for thought leaders as it builds trust and credibility.
When an audience trusts a speaker, they're more likely to be influenced by their ideas and viewpoints.
Another important element is the ability to tell a compelling story.
Stories are the fabric of human communication.
They have the power to engage emotions, illustrate complex ideas, and make messages stick.
Thought leaders use storytelling to breathe life into their speeches, making their ideas more relatable
and memorable.
By weaving facts with personal anecdotes and emotional triggers, they can drive home their message
more effectively.
Public speaking also demands a mastery of delivery techniques.
This includes vocal modulation, pacing, and body language.
These techniques can significantly enhance the impact of a speech, making the message more dynamic
and engaging.
For thought leaders, mastering these skills means they can adapt their delivery to suit different contexts
and audiences, ensuring their ideas resonate widely and deeply.
The role of public speaking in thought leadership extends beyond the individual.
It's about fostering a culture of open dialogue and exchange.
Thought leaders who excel in public speaking can inspire others to share their ideas and perspectives,
enriching the collective knowledge and pushing the boundaries of innovation.
In conclusion, public speaking is not just an ancillary skill for thought leaders.
It's a fundamental aspect of their influence.
Through authentic, compelling and skillful communication, thought leaders can share their vision,
inspire action, and lead the way toward change.
Whether addressing a small team or an international conference, the power of their words can shape
the future of industries, communities, and societies.
Embracing the art of public speaking is therefore essential for anyone looking to leave a mark on the
world as a thought leader.

--- Maintaining Authenticity and Authority in Your Niche ---

What makes a presentation truly stand out.
It's the speaker's ability to connect with their audience on a personal level, conveying their message
with authenticity and authority.
Today, we delve into how professionals can enhance their presentation skills to captivate their audience
without relying on notes.
The cornerstone of an impactful presentation is authenticity.
This means being genuine in your communication, sharing your true thoughts and feelings on the subject.
It's about letting your unique personality shine through, making your message resonate more deeply
with your audience.
Authenticity builds trust and fosters a connection that scripted speeches seldom achieve.
Authority, on the other hand, is established through a deep understanding of your topic and the confidence
with which you present it.
It's about demonstrating your expertise and conveying your message with conviction.
This doesn't mean you need to have all the answers, but being prepared to address questions and engage
in meaningful discussions is key.
One effective strategy for maintaining authenticity and authority is to master the art of storytelling.
Stories not only make your presentations more engaging, but also allow you to convey complex ideas
in a relatable and memorable way.
When you share personal anecdotes or relevant case studies, you provide context that helps your audience
understand and remember your message.
Another technique is to practice active listening during your presentation.
Pay attention to your audience's reactions and adjust your delivery accordingly.
This dynamic interaction shows that you value their input and are not just reciting a pre-prepared speech.
It makes the experience more engaging for everyone involved.
Visualization is also a powerful tool.
Before your presentation, visualize yourself delivering your message confidently and authentically.
This mental rehearsal can help reduce anxiety and improve your performance when it's time to present.
In conclusion, maintaining authenticity and authority in your presentations is crucial for engaging
your audience effectively.
By being genuine.
Demonstrating expertise, mastering storytelling, practicing active listening, and utilizing visualization,
you can deliver powerful presentations that leave a lasting impression.
Remember, the goal is not to deliver a perfect speech, but to connect with your audience in a meaningful
way.
