

=== Introduction to the Essential Skills ===


--- Developing People, Leading Teams & Managing Processes ---

(gentle music)
-: Hi folks, my name is Larry Miller.
Welcome to my course on the New Manager,
the Essentials of Managing People, Teams, and Processes.
Congratulations, if you become a new manager.
Maybe I should say condolences,
because you know in your old world
before you were promoted to a manager,
you had a job and you knew what it was
and you knew how to get it done
and you were in control of it.
It was just about your behavior,
your motivation, your skills.
And now, you're a manager of others.
And now life isn't so simple, is it?
On the one hand, you've entered the world
where there's immense opportunity to move up the ladder
to greater compensation, greater responsibility,
greater success all around.
However, the other side of that,
the condolences side of that,
is that now you are dependent on others.
Your success is only the degree to which you can cause
other people to do their jobs well.
And that's hard.
It's not easy.
I've been managing for about 40 years,
managing a company and managing teams of people,
developing people.
And I know it's hard and you don't always succeed.
Sometimes you can't win,
but you can maximize the probability of your success
with every individual and every team
if you have the fundamental skills,
none of which are rocket science,
none of which are that hard.
But there are frames of mind,
there are ways of thinking about the job.
And there are very specific skills.
And, you know, skills are developed through action.
You know, if you're gonna learn to play the piano,
you can't just read a book and then say,
"Oh, I know how to play the piano."
No, you have to put your hands on the keys,
and you have to practice, practice, practice,
practice, practice, right?
Which is true if you're learning golf
or learning any sport, it's about behavior.
It's about you developing the automatic responses
that make you an effective manager.
So as we go through this course, I hope you have a coach.
Now, that coach may be the immediate manager above you,
or it may be a coach sort of on the side, if you will,
who isn't, you know, isn't the authority above you,
but as a helper, somebody who can give you feedback
and help you develop as a manager.
I believe in having a coach, so I hope you do have a coach.
But you and the coach are going to take action.
As we go through each section of the course,
I'm gonna prescribe, I'm gonna recommend,
I can't make you do it,
but I am gonna recommend some exercises,
some practice that will put the lessons to work.
And only by putting your hands on the actual work,
practicing, will you really become
good and effective as a manager.
And let's be honest, all of us who've been managing
for a long time know we don't have it all down.
I mean, it's a lifelong,
it's like becoming a good parent, right?
Or a good teacher or a good coach.
It's a lifelong experience.
There's always more you can learn.
So in this course, I'm trying to provide
the essentials of effective management,
but I expect that it's the beginning of a lifelong journey.
I hope it's the beginning of a lifelong journey for you.
Now, let me talk about the three major sections
of this course.
One is a focus on people and the skills of people,
motivating people, your communication skills.
There's a whole section we're gonna go through
on communication skills, listening skills,
giving and receiving feedback.
Very essential skills for a manager.
Learning to do that well.
And even the discipline issue, right?
The issue that none of us really wanna deal with.
But there are times that people don't perform,
even though we've given them feedback,
even though we've done a good job
of doing the things we should do to motivate them
and listen to them, communicate with them, et cetera.
Sometimes you have to engage in a process of discipline.
So, we'll go through all those things.
Each one of those is a subsection of the course.
Now, in the world that we live in today,
rarely do you just manage people one-on-one, individually.
And in fact, that's the hardest way to manage people.
Because if people are working together as a team,
they motivate each other and they teach each other,
they learn from each other,
they solve problems together as a team.
So I won't say it's just the easiest way to manage people,
but it is definitely the most effective way to
manage people in most organizations today
is to become an effective team leader.
So there's individual skill
that you're gonna help your individual employees develop,
individual motivation,
but now you're also gonna work
with a group of individuals as a team, I hope.
So we're gonna talk about team leadership.
There's a whole section on team leadership,
the stages of team development,
how to develop a team scorecard,
and, you know, if you look at any sport and you say,
"Well, what makes a team perform?"
They have a scorecard.
They know the score
and they're working towards the score, right?
And towards the championship,
towards some challenge, towards some goal.
Well, the same things are true
with working with a team at work.
You want them to have the challenge,
you want them to have the score,
you want them to have targets and objectives.
And we wanna talk about how you make decisions,
because there's individual decision making
and then there's team or group decision making.
And I want to help you to be effective in both.
And I want to help you figure out
when a decision should be an individual decision
and when should it be a team decision.
And then there is problem solving
and continuous improvement.
Every team, well, every individual really,
should be involved in lifelong learning for the individual
and continuous improvement,
continuously getting better as a team.
So I'm gonna give you a process of working with your team
to engage in continuous improvement
where they're always moving up a staircase,
improving data and improving their behavior,
improving their skills to achieve a challenge.
So we're gonna go through that whole process.
And I want you to think about process.
Because what do teams own?
What are they responsible for?
And what are you responsible for?
You're not just responsible for people,
you're responsible for a group of people getting work done.
And they get work done through a process.
In every process there's input and there's output.
You measure the effectiveness of the process
by the output of the process, right?
I mean, if you're a restaurant, for example,
there's input, incoming food stuff,
and incoming people who are gonna serve the food
and make the food and so forth.
Those are inputs into the process.
And then there's a process of cooking, right,
preparing the meal and serving the meal.
And the output is a customer who enjoys the meal
a good steak, (laughs)
a good, whatever the the dinner is right?
And a customer that's satisfied with that,
those are the outputs of that process.
So you as a manager are gonna be responsible
for managing a process.
And I'd like you just to think about something
Dr. Deming, the great guru of quality management,
said some years ago.
He said, "95% of the time
quality problems are in the process, not the person.
But 95% of the time we blame the person
and don't fix the process.
And then we can't figure out why the next person
isn't any good either," right?
Because they're working in a lousy process.
Well, you will succeed largely to the degree
that you are able to lead your team
in the improvement of processes.
So, you need to know what your processes,
you need to know who your team is, who's on your team,
what your team is responsible for,
and obviously you need to know who the people are, right?
So we're gonna go through all three of those things.
And there is leadership,
there's the development of people,
you lead teams, you develop people,
and you manage processes.
And we're gonna go through all three of those.
That's the challenge.
That's what the course is about.
Come on and join me, I think you'll enjoy it.
And I am quite confident you'll benefit from it
in improving your own performance as a manager.
(bright music)

--- What is Management, Leadership and Process? ---

(calm music)
-: Hi again, friends.
I'd like to define terms,
and particularly if you're a member of my circle
of influence here that a manager has, there are three ways
or three words that describe what a manager does
to influence people, process, and teams.
And those three words are leadership, management
and develop.
And I'd like to just explain them a little bit more
and talk about their relationship.
And if you look at my circles here, it's significant
and intentional that the circles overlap somewhat.
Because when you manage, develop, or lead a person,
you are also impacting the performance of the team.
When you develop a team and when you coach a team
and you motivate a team, that has influence,
of course, on the individual,
and both of those are what affect the process.
So there are, they are overlapping,
although we'll talk about them as we go through the course
somewhat separately, but there's always this overlap.
Lead, manage, and develop,
let's talk about those three terms.
Now, if you google the term management online
you'll find hundreds of definitions
if you keep looking, if you bother with that.
But let's just talk about the big picture
in terms of what that word connotes.
What do you hear when you hear the word manage?
And many people will hear the idea of controlling,
the idea of you deciding what other people should do
and making sure they do it, making sure they do it right.
Holding people accountable, you know,
that sort of idea of being in control.
That's not a great way to think about your job as a manager
because if you think about your job as manager
as simply telling and controlling
and deciding, you're gonna turn people off, frankly.
You're gonna demotivate people.
You're not gonna be effective as a team leader.
So you've got to do more than that.
And when we think about management,
let's just go down a list
of things that management does here,
and then let's talk about leadership
and developing people and teams.
One of your jobs is to utilize resources.
Now, those resources may be money, you may have a budget.
There's space in an office or a manufacturing plant
and they're people, they're the time of people.
Those are the critical resources that you have.
And your job is to use them
in the most productive possible way.
There's always this idea, which we'll talk about more later
of input and output, right?
Input of money, input of people, input of space,
and then you do something with it,
which is a process, right?
You utilize it and then there's an output.
The more output you can get for the less input
that's called efficiency or productivity, right?
So your job is to maximize the productivity
of your resources, of the time of your people,
the utilization of your space,
the utilization of your money, et cetera.
So that's one job of the manager.
People have energy.
Leadership creates human energy by inspiring people
and motivating and giving purpose.
The manager gives it direction
and says, "In order to achieve the purpose,
here's what we need to do.
We need to move in this direction."
Or by listening to people and engaging people,
involving people, defining processes well
and defining what we need to do well.
So you do assign tasks to people and you motivate people.
You do manage a process.
You know, you, I hope as a manager,
know what your process is, what's the input
the output points, and what that process is
that you're going to employ your team
to improve and to manage.
You engage people in continuous improvement.
We don't live in a static world.
Whatever we think the best way to do something is today,
and we may be right today, it'll be wrong tomorrow.
Why?
Because of new skills, new technology, new customer demands,
new changes in the external environment.
We'll talk more about that later.
But, the world's dynamic
and there's no business that escapes this.
I don't care whether you're, you know, a sales person
or whether you're in information technology,
developing software or you're in healthcare,
it doesn't matter.
We live in a very dynamic environment
and your job is to sense what's going on in the environment
and help people respond to that.
So there's a constant dynamic motion going on in the group
of people who you manage.
And your job is to sense that
and give it guidance and work with your team
and figuring out what the best way to adapt is.
And yes, there is an idea of control.
Processes can be in control or out of control.
But it's better to think about the process being in control
than the people being in control, right?
The people are the dynamic energy that you have to utilize.
If the more you try to control 'em or give a sense
of sort of authoritarian control, you drive out the energy.
So you don't want to do that.
What's the difference between management and leadership?
What does a leader do that a manager doesn't?
A manager is more tactical.
A manager is more into the detail
of specific tasks of schedules
and budgets and resources and you know, that sort of thing.
The leader says, "Why are we going where we're going?
Where are we going?
And why are we going there?
Why is it worthwhile to go there?"
A leader has a sense of purpose
and a sense of purpose that ennobles others.
Create a sense of purpose.
You do have a job, even though you're a manager,
you have a job of leadership too.
And that's it to inspire people with a worthwhile purpose
ask yourself the question, what do we as a company
what do we do as a unit?
Whatever our unit is, whatever we do,
what do we do that's value adding?
Why is it important? Who cares about it?
What's the real purpose of it?
You should think about that because you need
to communicate that to your team members, right?
And that way you create energy.
And if you're not able to talk about that,
if you're not aware of what our purpose is,
and why it's worthwhile, think about worthiness.
Why is what we do worthy?
What is the worthiness in what we do?
Because if you can't communicate that,
your people will lose energy.
The degree to which you can communicate that,
you create energy.
I hope that makes sense
and you can just sort of look at this list.
But this is, that's the very basic idea of what leaders do.
And I hope you will see your job as a leader.
You also have a development job
and that job is to develop the competencies of people.
I know you're not the training department, but you are too.
You know, yes, our parents, you know.
send their kids off to school.
But you know who really teaches them
more than the teachers in school?
It's mom and dad, right?
You know, the greatest influence in our life,
even though we may be very mature, is still our parents.
What we learn from mom and dad, that model.
And one of the jobs of leaders, by the way, versus managers
is to model the behavior that reflect our values.
So I hope you'll think about what are our values
and how do I model the behavior that reflect those values
that exhibit those values?
But development means training, it means coaching,
it means building skills.
We all need to, the reason you're taking this course
is to build your skills right?
Well, every employee
and every company needs to every day build their skills.
And your job as a manager is to help your subordinates,
to help your team members build skills
by giving them feedback, by helping them with training.
Maybe they're going through an online course,
and you can coach them in that online course.
You can go through it with them.
You can go, they can take this course
or they can take my team leadership course
or problem solving course.
And you can be their coach as they develop skills.
But they also develop skills as you engage them.
For example, we're gonna talk about problem solving.
As you engage them in problem solving,
they're gonna be learning to problem solve.
You know, if you brainstorm with them,
they're gonna learn how to brainstorm.
If you teach 'em about a Pareto diagram
and you do a Pareto analysis, they're gonna learn
about the 80/20 Rule, the Pareto analysis.
So we're constantly influencing our subordinates
by developing their competence.
And that's one of our central tasks.
What is a process?
We're gonna use that word a lot.
A process is a set of activities
that lead to a result, right?
And we're gonna map processes.
This is just a very sort of simple map,
but it says, you know, to make something, right?
Or to provide a service, to cook a meal.
You know, my restaurant example,
which is a nice simple one,
we can all think about, right?
There is input, there's output
and there's the process of how do you make stuff?
How do you cook a meal?
How do you, you know, how do you, what does a great chef do?
Well, there's steps in the process,
there's an order of things,
but they're individual tasks, right?
And the sum of those tasks is the process.
And there's a flow through that process.
And we are going to become experts in studying
and improving our process as we go through this course.
It's very central to being an effective manager today
no matter what field we're managing in
or what kind of an organization.
So I hope those four definitions are somewhat helpful
to you.
Let's come back and I wanna say a word
about culture and values.
Thanks.
(upbeat music)


=== The Changing World of Work 2024 ===


--- Course PPTs and Graphics for Download ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Responsibilities: Communication, Boundaries and Delegation ===


--- Two Self-Assessments ---

(upbeat music plays)
-: Hi folks.
A good way to begin a journey is to know where you are.
Where you're beginning from.
If you have a map, it's nice to know you're starting here
and you're going there.
Well, one way to do that is to do a self-assessment
and I'm including, attached to this lecture,
two self-assessments.
They're both based
on lean management principles and practices.
And the first one is an Excel spreadsheet.
The other one's a Word document.
Open it up, take a look at it.
And I, this is something you can do with your coach,
with your team, or just by yourself, or all three.
And in fact, if you open it up
you'll see down on the bottom there are tabs
for your own the leader, the team leader's assessment.
Then you can do a consensus process
with your team where you can go
through it and ask the team what they think and score it.
And you can have your coach observe your team
and he or she can score it.
So it's a nifty way.
And by the way, it's very automated.
So try it out.
If you take a look, the first category is team meeting
team purpose and charter, right?
And if you look at the, take any one of the boxes
on the upper sort of, if you look at each row,
the box on the left is like the least developed.
The most beginning.
The box all the way to the right,
is sort of the ideal state or an ideal state.
So you only, you only are in one of those boxes.
Don't try to click all five of them.
'Cause that's not possible.
Go to that little yellow box up in the upper left
if that's the box that describes where your team is.
And if you're doing it by yourself, just put a one.
If you have 10 members of your team
and they all agree that you're, let's say in the third stage
or the second stage, you know, put 10 there.
Or if it's five and five, you know, five, say you're
in the second box and five, say you're in the third box
then put five and five
and you'll see the scores accumulate down on the bottom.
Hope that makes sense.
And then if you go,
let me just go through the categories first.
The categories are team purpose,
team meeting management.
How will you, your team is, well
how well you manage meetings in your team.
Process management, process improvement,
that may be the most important.
Customer focus.
You know, are you really focused on your customer?
Problem solving and decision making.
Those are the, those are the categories.
And you know, it doesn't cover everything in the course.
I mean, it doesn't cover interpersonal communication skills
or motivation skills or a lot of those things
but it does cover how well you're leading your team.
And that's a very, very important aspect
of this whole course.
So try using it.
And if you, if you go to the the back page
you'll see that it automatically sums up the scores
and gives you a little graphic of where your team is.
And if you do it, you know, both for the team,
for the individual leader, and for a coach,
it'll give you the comparison of those scores.
So it's a pretty nifty Excel spreadsheet.
Use it if it works for you.
Open the Word document.
It looks like this.
And this is how far along the lean journey are we?
And there are characteristics or lean practices
if you will, down the left hand column.
And you just sort of indicate where you think your team is
on those practices.
And this is a, these are both pre-assessments.
So do them and just have in your own mind an idea.
So where you are and where you're not.
Where you are and where you're going.
And when we get to the end of the course,
it might be a cool idea to come back
and go through them again and say, hey, how have I changed?
How has my team changed?
I offer it to you.
It's a suggestion.
Thanks.
(upbeat music plays)


=== Developing Employee Skills ===


--- The Heart of the Matter: Values and Culture ---

(light-hearted music)
-: Hi again, friends.
I wanna talk about values and vision,
and I know those are real soft sort of fuzzy words.
And I don't wanna sound like I'm preaching to you,
but I kind of wanna preach to you. (laughs)
I wanna try to convince you
to think about your values in particular.
Why? Because they affect everything.
They affect how people behave.
They affect people's motivation.
They affect whether people stay within boundaries
of acceptable behavior or go outside those boundaries.
It's all based on values.
It's all based on a sense of what's important.
And from the time we're children, you know,
we learn our values from our parents
but then from the school we go to and our friends.
And then when we go to work, you know,
the first job we have we have a sort of a sixth sense,
sort of radar, and we pick up what the values are
that are important.
What do people get rewarded for?
What pays off in this organization?
What's get punished in this organization?
And we're picking up values.
So it's important for you as a manager
to know what your values are as a manager,
and they should be aligned with the values of the company.
So you should know what your company's values are,
and if you don't, ask.
You know, ask your subordinate,
"What are the values that are important for me as a manager
to communicate to my team?"
'Cause you're gonna communicate values
to your team whether you intend to or not.
So, you know, back to my diagram here
which you'll be sick of.
At the heart of the matter, you know,
what really holds those three circles of people,
team, and process together is, what do we believe in?
You know, what are our values and where are we going?
Vision, where are we going?
Value is what's important, right?
So I'd like to talk about that just a little bit now.
Those things, you know, our vision, values,
and then the skills, competencies, motivation of people,
the effectiveness of teams,
and the effectiveness of our processes,
those sort of make up the organization culture.
And the organization culture is also affected
by the system structure, symbols in the organization.
In other words, system, who gets what information.
You know, that's a value statement, right?
Do we trust people with information?
Do we think they can make decisions based on information?
Do we give them the score?
Are we transparent in sharing what's really going on
with the company?
You know, those are systemic things,
the structure of the organization.
How many layers are there?
Are there 15 layers or three layers?
Boy, that really affects how people behave.
The more layers they are, decisions tend to get sucked up,
tends to disempower, you know, people at a lower level.
So generally, the fewer levels the better,
if people are trained to take responsibility at a low level,
which is one of the things this course is about.
And symbols, you know, why do we wear ties?
Who parks where, you know, who has offices
or doesn't have offices?
You know, those things,
all of which you may think are silly.
They're really not.
Because every culture,
if you just think about other cultures,
you know, native Americans or you know, Chinese culture
or Japanese culture, any other culture,
there are symbols, right?
Religious symbols, think about them.
Why do we have them?
Why do we care about them?
Why do we care about flags?
What's the flag about?
You know what the flag is about?
No matter what country you're from,
the flag is about the values of your country, right?
It's symbolic.
They're symbols.
They're not, you know, the cloth of a flag isn't a value
in and unto itself.
The real value comes from the symbolic nature of it, right?
And teams have symbols, right?
Well, why does every baseball team, you know,
if you're a fan of a baseball team, you have the cap
with the team's name or symbol, you know, on it.
And we like that. You know why?
'Cause it bonds people together.
Teams get bonded together if they have a common symbol.
So those things all affect the organization culture.
And there is a larger environment, right?
There's sort of concentric circles here.
There's you and your team there in the center,
and then there's the organization and it's culture.
But there's a larger environment.
There's a national culture, there are industry cultures.
I can tell you that as a consultant who's bounced around
from textile mills to steel mills to American Express
to other New York banks or big banks
to healthcare organizations, auto companies.
They all have different cultures based on the nature
of the business, based on the competitiveness
of the business.
So there is a larger culture of your industry
and of the country, the larger outer environment.
And those things are changing.
You know, those things are in motion.
And because those things are in motion,
they affect what goes on inside.
So if we go through an economic depression
or recession, you know, that affects us.
That affects our culture, that affects how we do things,
technological changes.
You know, I can tell you for sure,
one thing that you need to think about,
is every young person coming to work tomorrow
is internet savvy, has devices, right? (laughs)
You know, they have super iPhones.
They Google everything.
They have an expanded intelligence.
They have an expanded knowledge base.
Because it's not just what's in their head
it's what they can access and how fast they can access it.
And young people are very into that, right?
If you've taught in a classroom,
I've taught in college classrooms,
and it's sort of disturbing because, you know,
you're supposed to be the expert
and you're telling them what's what.
And they're sitting there with their laptop or their iPhone,
and they're Googling something
that you've just talked about.
And then they raise their hand and say, "Excuse me,
but you know, it's not exactly the date. It was this."
And you go, "Oh, great." (laughs)
You know, so everybody's connected to everybody else.
Everybody's connected to knowledge.
That's a technological reality that impacts us.
There are government changes, regulations,
particularly in healthcare and environmental things,
that impact our company.
So we as a manager need to be attuned to those things.
We need to recognize them
and be able to integrate them into our work,
understand how they're impacting them,
translate them for our team
so they know what to do about them.
Does that make sense?
I hope that makes sense just in thinking about,
you know, values.
And in the next lecture, let me come back
and very quickly talk about some values
that I think are really important
for almost any organization today.
Thanks.
(light-hearted music)
(light-hearted music continues)


=== Motivating Your Team Members ===


--- Values Worth Considering ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi again, friends.
Let me just share with you a few values
that I think are important.
Now, you know, some values just should be obvious to you.
Absolute honesty and integrity.
Don't ever lie to your people.
Don't ever lie to your superior or parallel associates,
but you know that, don't you?
I don't need to tell you that, that's obvious.
But let me expand on a few values
that are maybe not so obvious.
You know,
there are two pillars of Toyota production system
or what we call "lean management".
One is respect for people.
The other is continuous improvement.
And they're values.
What does respect for people mean?
What does it really mean?
Let me give you an example.
I was involved at Honda America Manufacturing
in the early days when they came to the United States
and set up their plant in Marysville, Ohio
and Irimajiri was the President
of Honda America Manufacturing
and I'd go up there.
Mr. Irimajiri, or "Mr. Iri," as he was known,
was out on the shop floor every day.
He was President of Honda American Manufacturing,
a large organization,
but every day, he was out on the shop floor.
Now, what was he doing
as he went to the gemba,
where the work gets done, as they say,
or at Honda, they say, "on the spot".
They say,
"The world's greatest experts
are those who are on the spot and have their hands on."
I sat in decision-making meetings at Honda
where a Vice President would offer a suggestion
or a solution to a problem
and another Vice President would say,
"That's interesting, but have you been on the spot?"
and they all, that was code language,
they all knew what that meant.
What it meant is literally, "Had you been out there
on the floor, talking to the people who do the work,"
because they know,
the world's greatest experts are "on the spot".
Now, that's respect for people.
You may know that at Toyota, it's very famous for this,
there's an "Andon Cord" it's called now.
They already changed that
to a more technologically advanced thing.
But every employee can stop the line.
Now, this is a big deal.
Like 5,000 people work in an auto assembly plant
and any one of them can stop the line.
That implies a very high degree of trust in your people,
respect for your people,
and when you trust and respect somebody else,
do you know what comes back to you?
Trust and respect.
That's right.
You earn trust and respect
by trusting and respecting your team members.
They will then trust and respect you as a leader.
So, listening to your people,
engaging them in problem solving and making decisions,
demonstrates respect for people.
It's very critical.
Continuous improvement.
I think I've already mentioned this,
but it's just, it'll be at the heart
of everything we're gonna do going forward.
Think of a mountain climber climbing up the mountain,
but that mountain is endless. (laughs)
You never get to the top of it, right?
The top of it being ideal performance.
You never get there,
'cause you're gonna be learning for the rest of your life.
Don't think for a second
that once you've been through this course, you got it.
No, you don't have it.
You have some basics and you're on a journey,
but that journey is lifelong.
I'm learning it,
and I've been managing people for 40 years,
but I'm still learning it,
I'm still reading books,
I'm still online, learning stuff.
So, we're all engaged in continuous improvement
and every company and every team in every company
should be engaged in continuous improvement
of the processes that they own.
I hope that makes sense.
The Scientific Method.
Be fact-based.
Learn to look at the data,
learn to understand the facts.
Performance and improvement is not just about how you feel,
it's not just about what you think,
it's not an ideology,
it's not a theory,
it's not a political thing.
Facts.
Remember, sorry, you know, you may not remember
'cause you're probably too young,
but way back, (laughs) when I was a child,
there was a TV show previously,
a radio show called "Dragnet"
and Sergeant Friday was the lead character
and so-
You can look him up on the internet, it's cute.
Anyway, (laughs)
Sergeant Friday, out on a case,
investigating a robbery or murder or something,
he would always interview people who saw it,
or maybe the victim,
and he'd always say, "Ma'am, I want the facts,
nothing but the facts."
And they'd drift off into some, you know,
theory that they might have
and he'd say, "Ma'am, I just want the facts,
(chuckles)
nothing but the facts."
Well, as a manager, you want the facts,
nothing but the facts.
Plot the data on a graph
so you can see the trend.
You can see, is the variability like this
or is it like this?
It matters.
When does it vary?
How does it vary?
What causes it?
When you make a change, how does it affect the data?
That's the Scientific Method.
Become a scientist.
The degree to which you become a scientist,
a fact-based manager,
you'll become a successful manager.
I can virtually guarantee it.
Unity of people and purpose.
We, in the United States today,
I'm recording this in 2016, towards the end of 2016.
There's an election going on.
We become increasingly divided.
Division is weakness, unity is strength.
Every general understands this
and every leader of every company should understand this.
The degree to which people are united.
Energy is focused.
Energy moves in the same direction.
You have a common purpose.
Unite energy and effort.
Unity is a critical value in any organization.
Challenge.
What is the challenge we have?
Now, you may think, "I don't, I don't know,
I don't want a challenge.
I don't think this'll be easy, man, you know?"
But you know what?
When you don't have a challenge, you rot.
You don't grow.
You just, you're satisfied.
I don't want you to be satisfied, ever.
I always want you to have
what I call "creative dissatisfaction".
Think about where,
there's always a "where we are and where we could be".
For me personally, there's a where I am
and where I could be
and the same is true for you, right?
And we should always be thinking not about, you know,
"Aren't I wonderful where I am?"
No, you're rotting if you're wonderful where you are.
You want to be thinking about where you could be,
where your team could be,
where your company could be.
Visualize that
and that's the challenge that you should be working towards.
We should all have a challenge.
And it's a value.
It is a value to constantly be improving,
constantly be challenged, unify people, respect people.
Those are all critical values for the success of any leader,
manager, team, in any company today.
You can think of other values,
but those ones are pretty good ones.
Thanks a lot.
(upbeat music)


=== Coaching and Communication Skills ===


--- Management Essentials - Exercise 1 ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Difficult Conversations - Giving and Receiving Feedback ===


--- Managing in the New Hybrid World of Work ---

(calming guitar music)
-: I first recorded this course about four years ago.
I'm speaking now from February of 2022.
And when I recorded the course,
I considered that almost all the things
I was teaching in this course were general
in the sense they were not specific
to a certain kind of company.
And they were sort of eternal
or skills that will last for a very long time.
Like giving people feedback does not change every year
or the skills of facilitating a team.
You know, they may change over a period
of 10 or 20 or 30 years, something new may develop.
But unlike say, a software package with a 2.013, you know,
coming out this year where the instructor
has to change the instruction.
I thought my stuff was pretty lasting,
but wouldn't you know, something happened.
And what happened,
I think you all know what happened.
What happened was the pandemic, and suddenly,
instead of everybody having to show up for work, you know,
remember that was a great phrase.
You got to show up,
and you wanna get paid, show up. (laughs)
That's the main thing you have to do is show up.
Suddenly, instead of everybody having to show up,
unless, by the way,
you were in manufacturing where you still
had to show up or if you worked
in a hospital or transportation or, you know,
some things like that.
But if you were a knowledge worker in an office
developing software, doing engineering, et cetera,
we went from having to show up to having to not show up,
having to stay home.
And this was radical.
I mean, this was just a radical change.
Many people didn't think you could do your work at home.
And suddenly, a lot of people learned that, son of a gun,
I not only can get it done at home
without all the hassle of driving into work,
I feel more productive.
I am more productive.
I enjoy my work more.
I get to spend time with my kids.
I get to walk my dog.
I get to do all kinds of things I wasn't able to do before.
Now I can do all those things
working from home, and I like it.
And what happened suddenly when the pandemic
began to slow down, a lot of companies said,
you know, okay, everybody back in the office.
And a lot of employees said, no.
No, that's stupid.
I've been doing my work at home successfully, and I like it.
And there's no reason
for me to sit in a cubicle like Dilbert
in an office setting where I'm actually less productive,
I'm distracted and I waste
all that time getting to work and et cetera, et cetera.
So then we had, you know,
what people began to call the great resignation.
And the great resignation is that
a lot of people have decided
that they're gonna change jobs
rather than be forced to sit in a cubicle
in an office or sit in an office in an office.
They want the opportunity to spend more time at home.
That doesn't mean all the time at home.
I don't think we're going from everybody
in the office to everybody at home
to everybody back to the office, or everybody stay home.
I think we're going to a hybrid model.
And a lot of companies are doing this,
and a lot of companies now say that they are, you know,
80% of people in a recent survey said their employers
had adopted a hybrid working model.
Even the US government, believe it or not,
has adopted or enabled, certified, if you will,
a hybrid model in the government workplace.
So this is becoming quite normal now.
And you as a new manager, you know,
all the skills that we're teaching in this course,
you need to think about how to apply them
when half your people may be on a Zoom call
and half in the office,
or maybe everybody will be on a Zoom call or, you know,
Microsoft Teams or whatever software package,
you know what I'm talking about?
It may be that, but that, you know,
three days a week everybody's home
and two days a week everybody's in the office
or some people are working remotely all the time.
I mean, there's all kinds of mixes that can go on.
And what I'm gonna suggest
to you is you have to design that intelligently.
We have to think intelligently about it
rather than think about in terms of absolutes,
everybody in the pool, everybody out of the pool.
No, we're gonna design the hybrid work system
that will work for your team
which will be different than somebody else's team, right?
So I want you to be able to think about that well,
and that's really the purpose of this section of the course.
You know, just some interesting statistics.
I think 74% of knowledge workers say they'll quit their job,
this is the great resignation,
for an opportunity to work from home.
And they're not necessarily saying
five days a week from home.
We're gonna talk about that later
because I'm not gonna try to sell you
on everybody working from home.
I think that's a bad idea, in fact.
But there's a point of moderation.
Moderation in all things is a nice saying
that I think rings true with me.
Absolutes, everybody one way or everybody another way,
usually is wrong for some number of people.
So we're gonna think intelligently about it.
A lot of people will quit if they can't spend
at least a good bit of time working from home.
Some will quit, you know, increasingly,
this is sort of a recent study,
to save money because it costs money, the transportation,
or maybe they can live in a place, you know,
if you can live in West Virginia versus Washington DC
just as a example I'm using,
it's a hell of a lot less expensive
than living in Washington DC which is very expensive.
And there you can think of lots of examples like that.
People will quit to spend more time
with their family, to be able to work from anywhere,
work on vacation, work from, you know,
rent a cabin in the Appalachian mountains
and spend a month up there and you can do your work
like nobody ever noticed you weren't
at home or even in the office.
People felt more productive.
35% of people said they felt more productive.
And a lot of people said, you know,
just my mental health is better.
I'm more relaxed, I'm less stressed working from home.
And that's a pretty good reason
to wanna work from home.
A lot of people say they were more productive.
This is a study from New South Wales, Australia.
It was a good study.
I'll attach it as a resource to this lecture.
And you can look at the data yourself.
But a lot of people
who have worked in a hybrid environment,
work from home, felt more productive.
I did a survey of people
on my mail list who are mostly knowledge workers,
and it was a general consensus
that you weren't less productive,
you were more productive,
they felt more productive working from home.
And in the future, you know,
when you ask people what do they want in the future?
You know, what do they see for themself in the future?
They don't say, I want to spend all the time at home.
Most people don't say that.
Only 10% said that.
55% said they want a blend.
You know, some people,
35% said they want to go back to the office full time.
Fine.
They can, as far as I'm concerned.
They can go back to the office full time.
But everybody doesn't have to go back
to the office full time.
Okay, let me stop right here
'cause I think those are sort of realities
that I think you know about.
I wanna come back and I want to talk
about a very recent study that Microsoft did
over 61,000 of their employees
who are knowledge workers.
(calming guitar music)
And they discovered some pretty important things
about remote work that we should take into account
as we think about the future of our hybrid work system.


=== Discipline - Justice, Discipline and Self-Control ===


--- Research Results from Microsoft - Effects on Collaboration ---

(bright music)
-: In the previous lecture,
we talked about the reality of what happened
during the COVID pandemic
and how people like spending time at home,
and they like the whole idea of a hybrid or remote work.
But anytime there's a major change in a system,
and that was a major change in a system, for sure,
while there may be benefits,
there may also be some downsides.
And I want to talk a little bit
about what may be some of those downsides
and what we as managers need to do about it
'cause this is gonna be part of your job as a manager.
Now Microsoft, Microsoft studied during the pandemic,
and they have very good researchers there.
They're very good with statistics.
They studied 61,000 workers working suddenly remotely
rather than in the office,
and they studied what happened
with their communication patterns
and their relationships and so forth.
And I'll attach the results of that research
to this lecture, and you can study it all you want.
But let me just summarize it for you.
First of all, you know, what they found was
that the relationships of those workers became more siloed.
What do I mean by siloed?
Within your team, within your family,
within your formal organizational structure
rather than relationships that are broader,
maybe more serendipitous, outside the formal organization
or that cut across the formal organization.
And that's sort of understandable
'cause you weren't, like,
walking around the office meeting people
or serendipitously, you know, meeting people
in the cafeteria or things like that.
And you may say, "Well, you know, so what?
what does that matter?"
Well, it does matter
because the nature of those relationships
were more asynchronous rather than synchronous.
Synchronous is something that happens at the same time.
My relationship with you is asynchronous.
You may watch this video, you know,
a year from now or anytime you want,
not at the same time.
Synchronous means we're talking together
at the same time, right?
Well, there was less of that
and more email communications, right?
And what Microsoft found was
that reduced the ability of creative communication,
spontaneous communication, across groups.
Research has shown that the strength of relationships
within an organization
and both within the formal organizational structure
of your team
but also relationships that cut across,
which are often spontaneous, serendipitous, right?
Those are an asset to the corporation.
Those relationships result in problem solving.
They result in creativity.
And those were diminished,
therefore diminishing an important asset
of the organization.
This quote sort of sums it up.
"Our results suggest that shifting
to firm-wide remote work caused the collaboration network
to become more heavily siloed with fewer ties
that cut across formal business units
or bridge social structures."
And that results in a lack of
or a decrease in creative activity.
Now, just the idea of social capital,
let me just, you know, introduce that term,
and it's associated with economic activity.
It really is a form of wealth, a form of capital.
And there is social capital within a family, let's just say,
or within a community.
And then there's bridging social capital.
You know, for example, you may have high trust,
which is social capital,
within the manufacturing department,
but then there's the engineering,
and then there's the sales marketing.
And while you may have high trust
within your manufacturing division, if you will,
there may be poor bridging social capital
between marketing and between engineering.
And that reduces collaboration,
and that reduces the ability to solve problems.
So there needs to be bridging social capital
as well as social capital within the unit.
And those were reduced
during the period of everybody staying at home.
We need to think about how to solve that problem
because that is a real problem.


=== Team Formation and Organization ===


--- The Competitive Advantage of Community ---

(light music)
-: I came across another piece of research
that you may think it's irrelevant to your task,
but I don't think it is.
Having to do with COVID-19, the pandemic,
and who did well and who did poorly in that pandemic.
And there's a study and it's published in "The Lancet"
and I'm attaching that study
so you can read it if you want.
That was done across 177 countries.
And they asked the question, which countries did better
and which countries did worse in handling the pandemic?
And not knowing anything about it,
I would've thought, well,
countries that have better healthcare systems
that are wealthier would've done better
than those that were poorer countries
with worse healthcare systems.
Well, it turns out that was not the critical factor
in who handled the pandemic better.
And it is just a little bit of a surprise.
Just read this quote from the study.
Measures of trust, one of my favorite words, right,
trust, in the government and interpersonal trust,
as well as less government corruption,
which you can imagine that would be associated
with trust, wouldn't you?
Had larger statistically significant associations
with lower standardized infection rates.
Isn't that interesting?
Trust in the society, trust in the government,
and trust among people reduced the rate
of infection and the rate of mortality.
I find that very interesting
and it's another example of social capital.
High trust equals high social capital.
I wanna refer you to another one
of my favorite books on social capital.
It's a book by Francis Fukuyama on trust.
And what Francis Fukuyama did,
he studied economic activity across nations
and he categorized countries
in terms of high trust and low trust.
And there are a lot of indicators.
There are ways of judging that.
You have to read the book to find all that.
But what he found was high trust countries
are economically more successful, are more creative,
have greater rates of growth,
greater economic activity.
Low trust, and you can just think
of different countries that you may think about.
Low trust, more authoritarian.
Authoritarianism is associated
with low trust, right?
Do it or I'll kill you, that's authoritarianism.
No, we don't wanna discuss it, debate it, and elect.
Well, that's democracy, right?
Well, we need high trust in democracy.
We don't need high trust in authoritarian societies.
Authoritarian societies do poorly in terms
of economic activity because they're also low trust.
And Francis Fukuyama found that,
this is one of my favorite quotes,
"One of the most important lessons we can learn
"from an examination of economic life
"is that a nation's well-being,
"as well as its ability to compete,
"is conditioned by a single,
"pervasive cultural characteristic:
"the level of trust inherent in the society."
He also referred to this as spontaneous sociability.
Let me just give you real quick and simple
personal example of spontaneous sociability
and how it may result in economic activity.
Where you live matters a lot.
The nature of your community
and your company is a community.
It is a social system.
Where I live in Maryland,
I have neighbors on either side of me,
and they're both wonderful families, wonderful people.
On one side, the couple are both university professors
at the University of Maryland.
And on the other side,
he is a scientist at the Carnegie Institute.
He studies inner earth matter,
not just on this planet,
but on other planets as well.
Don't ask me how he does that.
I have no idea.
Way over my pay grade.
We had them over for dinner a few weeks ago
and we also had my daughter and her family,
her three children and husband, over the same night.
And my middle granddaughter, Amira,
she is thinking about two career paths.
She's only 15, all right.
She's thinking about two career paths, one in acting.
She's more serious about that than you might think.
She actually has an agent, or geophysics.
Those have nothing to do with each other.
And how the 15-year-old mind considers
those two things as career options.
I have no idea.
But they're over at our house
and Amira is talking to our neighbor,
who is a scientist at the Carnegie Institute,
who is a geophysicist.
And he says to Amira, my 15-year-old granddaughter,
"Why don't you come visit?
"I'll set it up for you and a few of your friends
"to come over and I'll give you a tour
"and show you what we're all doing."
Just shut that story down for a second.
Now, nothing at all may come of that,
but you know how careers are developed?
How are young people inspired?
They meet people, they're exposed to things,
and they decide to study things and read about things,
and they go down a career path,
and it's often not well-planned.
It's often serendipitous,
spontaneous sociability, Francis Fukuyama said,
results in economic activity and privilege.
I know that I live in a privileged community
and my children and my grandchildren are privileged,
not because of money per se,
but because of social relationships
and how creativity is sparked by those relationships.
A community, your company is a community.
Those social relationships in your company are wealth.
They lead to economic activity.
Think about social capital and trust
and how you need to foster that.
Whether people are working remotely
or whether they're all working in the office
or in the manufacturing plant or whatever.
We're gonna come back and talk about
some specifics about things you can do
to increase that level of trust.


=== Team Facilitation & Decision Making ===


--- The Hybrid Responsibility Matrix ---

(bright music)
-: Let's talk about your job as a manager,
new or old manager,
operating in this new hybrid environment
where some people are home
and some people are in the office.
And I just want you to know
that everything else covered in this course,
the skills of facilitating team meetings, motivating people,
giving feedback, all of those things still apply.
The fact that some people
may be people you don't see every day
that they may be remote, you do have to shift some things.
You do have to adjust to that.
But don't think that everything is suddenly
new and different in a hybrid environment.
It's not.
But there are some things that I want to talk about
that you should take into account
if you are working in this hybrid environment.
And I'm using this matrix to sort of organize my thinking
and hopefully your thinking about the task.
And something that I'm doing differently in this.
And by the way,
I have a whole course on designing a hybrid organization.
So this is sort of a summary of that,
not every detail of it.
But I've sort of organized things in terms
of management responsibility and employee responsibility.
And here's the theory.
First of all, over the last century, literally,
we've moved from a high control parent to child relationship
between management and employee
to an increasingly adult to adult,
increasingly a self-managing environment
where the individual employee
and teams of employees must take responsibility
for managing their own behavior.
And part of your job now in this new environment
is to help your people manage themselves.
And I know if you're a new manager,
you may be saying to yourself, well, wait a minute, Larry,
I'm just starting to be a manager and I wanna be in control.
I wanna manage my people.
I don't want to turn management over to them.
No, you're not gonna turn management over to them.
You're gonna be responsible.
But think about it this way.
If you're a parent, what's your job?
What's your ultimate job?
You know what your ultimate job is?
Your ultimate job is to cause your children
to be so well-trained, so responsible,
so good at making their own decisions,
having such good values that you can trust them
to go off into the world
and be self-managing and make their own decisions.
If you don't do that as a parent, your life is hell.
Okay?
You want your children to become increasingly self-managed
and you can sort of view the whole from infancy
to late adolescence as increasing levels of self-management.
Well, in the organization as a team leader,
the more your team members are self-managing,
the easier your job is.
The more they rely on you to make decisions
and to control everything, your life is hell.
So the skill of the manager in a team environment
or in a hybrid environment is to help
your team members become increasingly self-managing.
So that's how I'm sort of organizing thinking here.
There's management responsibility
and then there's employee responsibility.
And I want to sort of talk about
the employee responsibility
'cause they need to own, if they're gonna be self-managing,
if they're gonna stay at home,
they've gotta manage themself to a high degree.
So we want to talk about that.
But within each of these,
within both the management roles and the employee roles,
there are both sort of technical things and social things.
By technical things, what do I mean by technical things?
I mean literally the organization of the workflow.
Who does what work, in what order, how much in what order?
When are things handed off?
That's all the, and the use of technology by the way,
the use of computers and conferencing technology, et cetera.
Those are all technical, what I will call technical things
that you as a manager have responsibility for designing
and setting up and making sure they're working well.
There are also social behavioral issues.
You need to think about your behavior and how,
and most of this course, really is about your behavior.
How you motivate, how you facilitate, et cetera.
But we have to talk about your behavior
in the hybrid environment and what may change
or what may be new and different about that.
Then the same is true on the employee level.
They have to design their own work space,
their own desk, their own office,
their own time utilization.
They have a responsibility
for designing their technical system.
And you can facilitate that, you can help them with that,
and they have a responsibility to behave.
And we'll talk about, particularly not just behavior
in terms of their own behavior of getting work done at home,
but their behavior as team members.
And I just can't emphasize this enough,
almost everybody does work in teams today.
I know you do work on your own,
particularly if you're working at home,
but it's very important that you have connections.
It's important to your psychological wellbeing
and it's important to creativity.
It's important to problem solving.
So if you're a team member,
you're not just somebody who stays home
and gets their work done at home.
You're somebody who has to contribute.
And it's very important
that they understand this responsibility.
You as the manager have to communicate to them
and help them understand their responsibility
as effective team members.
We'll come back.
I know you can't read all the things.
We're gonna go back
and talk about each of these boxes in a second.
Let's come back and talk about management responsibilities.


=== Conflict Resolution ===


--- Management Responsibilities in the Hybrid Organization ---

(bright music)
-: So let's talk about the technical side
of management responsibilities for a minute.
Let's talk about workflow,
work process.
You know, almost all work is designed
in terms of a flow of input to output.
Stuff comes in,
it may be materials, maybe information,
maybe knowledge, maybe money.
But stuff comes into your system.
There's a process with steps in that process
that transform input to output.
And the output is what customers pay for.
They don't really care about the other stuff.
That's your problem.
They care about the output, right?
But you get good output by having a good process.
Now, when half the people are in the office
and half the people are working at home
or whatever arrangement,
what is that process?
Do people understand the process?
And I wanna strongly encourage you to visualize.
We understand things in pictures.
We're always kind of translating words into pictures.
What is the picture of that workflow?
Give them a picture so they understand where they fit.
What is my contribution to the larger thing?
The larger thing is that transformation of input to output
and serving a customer.
But do I understand?
You know, it's a major factor in motivation.
I want my work to be meaningful.
I want...
Why does anybody care?
Well, people care
because it results in customer satisfaction.
Yes, it also results in money coming in,
people buying stuff, right?
But be sure they know what that flow of work is.
Visualize it, make sure they understand.
And if they understand the flow,
then that enables them to problem solve.
It enables them
to think about how things can be done better.
And that's an asset.
Everybody on your team thinking
about how to do things better is a definite asset
to you and to your team.
Make sure they have the technology.
It's your job.
I know they may be working at home
and maybe a company laptop or a company computer
or their own personal computer,
but it's your job to make sure,
and you need to talk to them and check this out with them.
You know, a lot of your job as a manager is
to ask questions.
So ask each team member, and you need to schedule,
this is part of the technical system,
you need to schedule personal time
with each member of your team.
And your team should be like, you know,
five to 15 in that range.
Not more.
But you ought to schedule like once a week.
You know, have a check-in time
where they call you, you call them.
You get on Zoom with them or however you wanna do it,
but you just check out how things going?
Do they...
How's their week going?
Are they having any problems that you can help?
But you schedule that, okay?
Don't...
Now, they should schedule that too
and I would say that to them,
but you're the manager.
So you make sure that you make that happen.
Office time.
I want your people to get together.
Now, I know if they're working in India and Malaysia
and the UK and San Francisco,
you can't get them together either ever or often.
But if they're working in the area around you,
while they may not come into the office every day,
maybe it's once a week,
maybe it's one day every other week,
maybe it's, you know, Monday and Friday
or Tuesday and Wednesday or something.
You know, this is,
you have to decide this,
and decide this as a team, right?
I mean, talk to them about it.
But there are some things
that it's really good to do co-located, you know.
It's good to have conversation,
to look at each other, to see people smile.
Hopefully they'll have the masks off, right?
To talk to each other face to face,
get a feel, you know.
Culture matters, relationships matter.
We've talked about that.
So you need to schedule time where people get together
to have those relationships
and have those serendipitous, right?
Spontaneous sociability.
Part of your system should be to visualize team performance.
What does team performance look like?
Where's our scoreboard?
We're gonna talk about creating a team scoreboard
in a later lectures.
But make sure the team can see,
because, you know, work is a game.
It's like a sport, right?
And sports don't work,
they're no fun at all if there's no score.
There's always gotta be a score.
And everybody's gotta be able to see the score
and celebrate victories together.
How does your team celebrate victories?
How do they know the score?
That's part of your job.
So those are some of the technical things.
Let's talk about some of the social behavioral things.
And we're gonna go through a whole section
on facilitating teams.
And you're gonna have to really think about how
to facilitate a virtual remote team.
And how do you engage people?
And if you are all around the table, you know, it's...
I'll say it's relatively easy.
It doesn't mean it's really easy, but it's relatively easy.
And that you can see people
and you can see that somebody's, you know,
sitting like this.
And you can say, "Larry, how do you feel about this,
whatever we're discussing?"
He'll say, "Well, I don't like it."
"Okay, tell us why.
Tell us why you don't like it," right?
When they're remote,
you may not see that, right?
You can't see their body language the way you can.
So you need to call people out.
And by call people out,
I mean invite them to speak,
invite them to contribute very purposefully.
You need to think.
It's part of your job.
You need to have a mental checklist.
Has everybody contributed?
Has everybody had an opportunity?
Have I done my job of giving everybody the opportunity
to contribute?
Or are we just signing in and signing off
without people having anything to say?
You need to build your virtual team
where people know their roles,
and I want you to encourage them to help facilitate.
You know, I know you think,
"Well, I'm the manager,
I'm the facilitator of the team."
Yeah, but the fact is everybody can help facilitate.
And I would encourage you to encourage them
to ask each other questions.
And maybe as you go through your agenda
of a team meeting on Zoom or on some virtual platform
that you ask,
"John, why don't you facilitate this discussion
on this topic?"
Oh, okay.
And now, you might let them know in advance
that you're gonna do that, by the way.
But that shares responsibility
and it creates more of an adult-to-adult relationship.
So feel free to both practice facilitation yourself
but also to share that responsibility with them.
You need to remember
that in this virtual hybrid environment,
you are still the coach.
And just think about what a coach does.
A coach observes the behavior of the team members, right?
And because the coach is skilled him or herself,
they can see that maybe there are room for improvement.
Well, can you see your team members
and what room for improvement there is?
That's your job.
Your job is to help each member
of your team be the best they can be.
So are you observing their performance?
And are you thinking,
I mean, you gotta think first, right?
Are you thinking about how each member
of the team can improve their performance?
And this should be a conversation
that you have with them on a regular basis.
Coaching is not something you do
at an annual performance review.
Coaching is something you do every day, right?
That's your job.
Every day you're gonna help each
of your team members improve.
And that's by asking them how well they're doing,
making suggestions,
helping them to problem solve,
solving problems for them when they cannot.
That's your job.
So you, whether they're in the office, you know,
if you're used to being in the office,
you know, you see people.
You walk around,
you see somebody who looks distraught
or looks unhappy
or doesn't seem to be getting any work done,
and you talk to them.
You coach them.
You need to work,
be more deliberate about that
when people are working remotely.
Okay so there's just some,
and again, everything we discuss
in the course later will apply
but just you have to think about it
in terms of people being in remote, okay?
Let's come back
and let's talk about the employee responsibility
and it's significance.
Thanks.


=== Keeping Score and Goal Setting ===


--- Team Member's Responsibilities in the Hybrid Organization ---

(gentle music)
-: So let's talk about the team member's responsibility
in the hybrid environment.
And let me talk to you, new manager that you may be,
let me talk to you as if you are one of those team members,
all right, just so it'll make my language
easier to understand.
First of all, you have to take responsibility
for your own performance.
There's a privilege.
And whenever there's a privilege, there's responsibility.
There's a privilege in being able to stay home,
whether it's, you know, three days a week
or five days a week.
And in order to have that privilege, you have to earn it.
And you have to earn it
by taking responsibility for your own performance.
You gotta get stuff done, right?
And you gotta get stuff done in a quality way.
You not only have to get stuff done
in terms of the specifics of your own work,
you have to get stuff done as a team member.
Your job is to help your team perform,
not just help yourself perform.
Yes, it's nice to stay home
and be responsible for your own little world
and live in your own little world there.
I know that's great,
but the reality is you're getting a paycheck.
And the paycheck is not only for doing your little world
and your little work, it's to help the organization succeed,
and you will not help the organization succeed
unless you help your team succeed.
So that is your responsibility.
Now, let's just looks sort of
at the technical side of that for a second.
People who work well are well organized.
I mean, it's a really simple thing.
And, you know, in lean manufacturing, lean management,
there's something called 5S,
which is about orderliness,
sorting, shining, standardization, set.
And what it's about is, when you come to work,
like in a factory, you know where the broom is.
I know, it's a simple thing.
I was actually working in a factory,
and there's big fights about where was the broom
and who left it where.
Well, you know, everybody ought to know where the broom is.
Everybody ought to know where all the tools are,
that should be standardized, right?
Similarly, in your own office where you work at home,
you should standardize things.
How is your computer set up?
How is it organized?
How is your desk arranged?
Is it orderly?
I know it may seem like a --,
but really order facilitates you getting your work done.
When you, you know,
I have an order of things in my own life.
You know, I get up at a certain time in the morning.
It doesn't matter what time.
I let the dog out, let the dog in.
I make coffee.
Very, very, very important.
I let my dog out in the front yard to run
and get the newspaper, which she does
and runs back with the newspaper.
I feed her, got my cup of coffee,
I go upstairs to my office,
and then I have an order of things that I do every morning.
You know, I check my email every morning
and respond to anything.
First, I delete all the garbage,
and there always is a bunch of that.
And then I respond to things I need to respond to.
And then I go on other sites that I need to go on
and answer things that need to be answered, et cetera.
And then I get to work
on my real value adding work for the day,
which may be something like this, you know,
producing a new course or a new section or whatever.
But when I go to bed at night, the night before,
I know that, I know what I'm gonna do the next day.
I've planned my day for the next day.
So when I get up in the morning,
I'm sort of excited about getting my work done.
I mean, it's a challenge, it's always a challenge,
but I'm looking forward to that challenge.
And when I get to my desk, my desk is not crazy.
I mean, it's not the neatest desk in the world,
but it's not a mess, right?
And I know how to...
And at my desk, by the way, is also what I see on my screen.
Actually, I have two screens.
But what I see on there is my desk, right,
my virtual desk or my electronic desk.
And that's all pretty well organized,
I won't say totally, but pretty well organized.
And it allows me to quickly, within probably 45 minutes,
I set of 45 minutes of, you know, email and stuff like that.
And then I can attack my challenge for the day,
getting a new section of a course done, for example.
And I go to work.
And I know, you know, the way my day is organized,
I know, this probably revealing too much,
I know that about 10:30 in the morning
Bella comes up to my office.
It's my dog, right?
And my Bella sits in front of me, wags her tail,
and she's saying to me, "Hey, isn't it time for our walk?"
And it is, she's right.
So I stop, we take 15, 20 minutes for a walk,
come back, I get back to work, and it's lunchtime.
Anyway, I know what that all looks like.
You need to know what your schedule is,
just as if you were in an office
or in a manufacturing plant.
What is your schedule?
Is your workplace well organized?
Is it standardized, sorted, clean, et cetera, et cetera?
You are responsible for self-scheduling,
but I recommend that you consult with your manager.
Now, you know, I would give your manager guidance
as to coaching you, that's their job,
but I wanna give you guidance to be coachable, right?
To ask for help, to ask for suggestions,
to share problems that you're having,
and get the advice of your manager.
And maybe you even have advice for your manager
of some things that the whole team could do better.
But take responsibility for that conversation.
Don't assume it's just the manager's responsibility
and I'm just gonna sit here
and do my own work and I don't really care.
You know, the manager can do his work
and team can do their work, and I just do my own work.
No, there's no such thing
as just doing your own work anymore.
That's dead. That died a long time ago.
So take responsibility for helping your manager
do his or her job of coaching you and leading the team,
help lead the team.
Now, just on the, you know, the social system side,
you need to think about your own behavior,
the social side of your job,
and think about how you can contribute
to your own motivation.
And, you know, I've always worked,
and, you know, I've often been self-managing, right?
Most of my life I've spent either owning my own company
or being an author or doing things
that are very self-management oriented.
And I set goals.
You know, goal setting is part of self-motivation.
So you should set your own goals.
But I also have like sort of big goals, you know,
in terms of what I will do before taking a vacation,
what I wanna get done this year.
I mean, I have goals for the year,
and I have goals for the month that I wanna get done.
What are your goals?
And when you achieve goals, how do you celebrate?
And if you're married, have your spouse help you with this.
Have your spouse help you celebrate success.
That can be part of your motivation.
Agree that you'll, you know, take a weekend trip somewhere
if you accomplish some important goal,
or whatever, you think about it.
But get your environment, get your family involved
in your motivational system, because one way or another,
they are involved in your motivational system,
so you may as well get them involved in a productive way.
I wanna emphasize that your job is to help your team.
And I'm recommending to your manager
that you have, you know, a once a week team meeting,
maybe every other week, but some period where the 10 of you,
whatever the number is on your team,
you get together on Zoom or whatever and you solve problems.
You review your scorecard, you review performance.
How are we doing? Why are we doing better?
Why are we doing worse?
What are the challenges?
There are always challenges.
What are the challenges that we have?
How are we gonna overcome those? Solve problems.
Be a great team member.
And being a great team member
is comprised basically of two things.
One, being sure that you are helping contribute
to the performance of your team.
You need to be thinking about the performance.
You need to be making suggestions
about how to improve performance.
That's part of your job.
The other part of your job as a great team member
is to help your other team members.
Facilitate them.
And sometimes, you know, that's within the team meeting
and you can say, "Hey, John,
don't you have something to say about that?
I think you do."
Or "Mary, how are you feeling about that?" Right?
I know you think, "Well, that's the manager's job."
No, it's everybody's job.
Everybody contributes to facilitating the team,
which makes the team successful.
So that's all part of your job.
And part of helping your team be successful
may be a one-on-one conversation.
You know, just like, you know, when you're in the office,
you're walking around the office
and you have casual conversations with people,
and you don't think about it
as some big formal problem solving thing,
but you very often are solving problems.
You're helping them to think
about how to do their work better
or overcome some problem they're having.
If you sense that any of your team members
are having a problem, help them.
You know, pick up the phone, schedule a one-on-one,
you know, Skype or Zoom or whatever meeting,
so you are helping your team members be a great team member.
That's part of your job.
Thanks.


=== Problem Solving Process Improvement ===


--- Transitions ---

(gentle music)
-: As you think about changing your work system, going
from a, let's say, traditional to a hybrid work system,
I think it's good to have perspective
and we tend as just a natural human foible
that we tend to think about the immediate, you know,
we watch TV and we see what looks like a war
and we think, boy, the world is really going to hell.
All these wars, people are dying.
But the reality is, if you look
at the flow of human history, and Steven Pinker's books
and other books kind of give you data on this,
but we're actually living in probably the most peaceful time
human beings have ever lived in on the whole.
But obviously, there are still problems.
So while there are blips on the graph,
there are transitions that are long-term trends
and I think it's worth-looking at them
in terms of the nature of our work management, if you will.
And I'll just give you two, you know, I love my graphics.
I'll give you just two quick graphics
and hopefully, perspectives.
If you back to the 1900
and you look at the majority of work, the majority
of work was either agriculture work or factory work.
And Henry Ford's factories just sort of epitomizes.
Yeah.
And the job of the manager was to control.
And the assumption was workers didn't know.
Managers did know, managers
and engineers knew they made the decisions.
Workers were hired hands, you know, they were labor.
But what happened, well, a lot of things happened first
with the union movement in the '30s and '40s.
And with the development of psychology
and understanding of human nature more,
and then quality management, you know,
and lean Toyota production system,
we changed our thinking about the nature of the workplace.
We increasingly relied on people working in teams,
increasingly people at the first level making decisions,
solving problems, being more autonomous,
not completely autonomous, but more self-directed,
if you will.
Then controlled by man.
And that trend has been going on.
Now, technical and social things often move together,
you know, I mean, the development of the telephone
even the landline telephone changed, social relationships,
the development of the cell phone, obviously the development
of the camera on the cell phone changed a lot of things.
And the internet, obviously, the internet
and high-speed internet broadband and the development
of remote work tools like Zoom, Microsoft Teams, et cetera,
all enabled different human relationships,
different social dynamics.
So that all was leading up
to the COVID-19 that sort of prepared the way, if you will
for what we were able to do in 2020.
Those things are definitely not going away.
You know, Zoom's not going away.
High-speed internet is not going away.
So we have to appreciate that and understand
how to incorporate those things and those trends.
And they're the trends towards increasing self-control,
increasing self-management rather than control.
And I consider that maturity, if you will.
Now, another, just one of my favorite graphics here.
I've, for many, many years I've had
and I've changed it from time to time,
but I've had sort of an old way and a new way.
I, traditional leader, 21st century leader,
I've called it different things, but again,
they reflect the transitions,
the big transitions that we're going through.
And from control to gaining commitment,
you want the best employees, the best workers.
It's not controlling them,
they don't wanna be controlled, they wanna be committed.
Major, important thing, and something that's not
on here is the transition from a scarcity of jobs
to a scarcity of competent labor, workers,
knowledge workers.
And we've been moving
from making stuff as you can, you know, see on here
to making knowledge to processing information.
That's the big change.
The majority of people
in the developed industrial companies,
the United States, Europe, Japan, now increasingly China,
people don't make stuff.
They don't work, they don't make objects,
they don't work in factories.
They process information, they process knowledge.
So that's a big, big transition that's going on
and that implies changes in how managers work,
instead of telling, asking, bringing out
of the people who work on the team that the manager leads,
bringing out from them their competence, their knowledge,
and creating collective wisdom on the team.
The more you create collective wisdom,
the easier the job of the manager is.
And we're recognizing
that all those things should be taken into account.
And you can just look at the list and go down 'em.
I won't go down every one, but I think you get the idea
of the transition that's going on.
And as you design your future work
and your future management process,
your future team process
take all those transitions into account.
Take into account that people are maturing,
people are more capable of self-managing.
Thanks.
(gentle music)


=== Improving Your Work Process ===


--- Summary of Key Learnings ---

(calm upbeat music)
-: Hi, folks.
Let me just summarize what we've covered
regarding successfully leading
and managing in the hybrid organization,
remote workers, remote hybrid teams.
There are a few key lessons,
and this is both from my own research
and from other people's research.
And I hope you've found this section helpful to you.
I hope it will be helpful to you as you go forward.
Advice summary number one, be a team,
be a great team, and be a great team leader.
Facilitate trust.
That's part of being a great team leader.
Whether it's remote or everybody co-located,
the key to your success is teams working well together,
solving problems together, taking responsibility
for performance, and to the degree possible, self-managing.
You're still responsible for them,
but help them be a high performing team that self-manages.
Creating trust.
How do you create trust?
Share, share your own feelings.
Share your own information.
Share information on how the team is doing
and how it's perceived.
Share the data.
The scorecard creates trust because it's transparent,
it's objective reality.
That's what a scorecard should be.
The degree to which you listen well
to your team members creates trust.
Respect, respect for people.
One of the key principles of lean management.
Continuous improvement and respect for people.
Show respect for your team members.
That will create trust.
Establish clear routines in how you lead your team.
When do you meet, when do you meet with them,
or talk to them individually as well as a group?
When do you share performance?
When do you solve problems?
And be willing to set up sub-teams,
or you can call 'em team rooms, if you will,
where people are interested in a certain topic.
You know, maybe of the 10 team members you have,
there's some particular problem, or interest,
or concern that maybe three folks wanna work on.
And that's great.
You know, rather than taking everybody's time,
let three people work on that.
So that's another way to make your team high performing
so everybody's time isn't spent on the same thing.
Let people work in subgroups when that's appropriate.
Encourage open dialogue.
The degree to which team members
are communicating with each other, even offline,
doesn't have to be in the formal team meeting,
but the degree to which people have good relationships.
I've talked a lot about that.
Relationships are trust.
Relationships are social capital, right?
Foster that, both within the team as a whole,
between you and team members, and team members across
each other, with each other.
That all leads to high performance, creativity,
and it leads to problem-solving.
Make sure your team is a problem-solving team.
Lead them in building problem-solving activities.
Lead them in self-management.
Encourage self-management.
Talk about self-management.
Talk about the whole section I did,
address two team members.
Discuss that with your team members.
Discuss each of the points,
and ask them what they think about that.
Ask them what is working for them
and what is not working for them.
That shows respect to them, and it creates
a learning environment across team members
where they're learning from each other.
And that means they're helping each other, doesn't it?
Use positive reinforcement.
People need praise, people need approval,
people need to celebrate, people need wins, right?
I mean, we need uppers.
We have enough downers in our life.
Give us uppers, give us...
And an upper is a celebration of success.
Celebrate the success of the team as a whole,
and celebrate the success of individual team members.
Your job, I mean, well,
coaches of athletic teams too, right?
I mean, they jump up and down, and they clap, and they yell,
and they pat each other on the back, they hug each other.
They do things, and it sounds silly, but it's not silly.
It's like being a real human being, right?
Celebrate the success of your team members joyously,
and that brings joy to all of your team members.
It makes it a happy team.
Your team should be a happy team.
And you're a happy team when you're winning,
you're engaging continuous improvement,
you're making progress.
Have common purpose.
Make sure that the bigger purpose, why are we here anyway?
What is our purpose as a team?
As well as what is our purpose this year?
Which gets down more to objectives.
But make sure your team is centered on its purpose.
That leads to high performance,
leads to trust, leads to problem-solving,
and sharing experiences among the team.
Those are some of the keys to success
which we've discussed previously.
I hope that's all helpful to you.
Let's get on with the rest of the course
and learn the details of facilitating,
and motivating, and solving problems as a team.
Thanks.

--- Essential Horizontal Communication ---

(light music)
-: Hi again, friends.
Let's talk about communication.
And there is nothing more important to your success
as a manager as how you communicate.
And communication is always two ways, right?
Remember, we have two ears and one mouth. (laughing)
That's a pretty good indication of the ratio
of how much we should be listening
to how much we should be talking.
But I want you to develop a communication plan.
I want you to think about all the different stakeholders,
if you will, all the different people above you,
below you, to your left, to your right,
with whom you need to communicate
and what you should be communicating to them, when,
and how and who should communicate.
So at the end of this section,
I'm giving you an exercise,
as I did in the last section of the course.
I'm sure you did that exercise, right,
in the last exercise of the course?
You met with your coach and you went over that with them.
Well, I'm sure you're gonna do that at the end
of this section too, meet with your coach.
And I'm gonna just call your manager above you,
if he or she is the one coaching you,
I'm gonna just call them your coach.
But you may have a coach, you know, sideways,
a peer coach or some other coach as well.
But let's just talk about some keys
to successful communication.
You know, communication equals trust.
The degree to which you communicate well and clearly
will cause people to trust you or not to trust you.
When you just think of any situation
where you don't trust somebody,
it probably has something to do with communication.
It may have to do, not just with wrong communication,
as in being communicated misinformation,
but it may simply have to do with the lack of information,
the lack of communication may cause people
not to trust you.
So we wanna make sure we're trusted.
It's very essential to doing our job well.
And communication equals trust.
Remember that communication is always two ways.
Every time you communicate,
let's say to your manager, you should be listening.
You should be asking your manager
to give you feedback on what you just told him or her
and process that.
You know, make sure that you have a clear understanding
of what she thinks about what you just communicated to her.
So let's make sure we're doing a good job
of two-way communication.
By the way, in a later section of the course,
we're going to talk about interpersonal communication,
listening skills, and so forth.
We're not getting into that right now.
I'm just sorta talking about the essential elements
of communication as a manager.
We'll get into those skills later in the course.
Successful communication is related to expectations.
And how we perceive communication
is relative to what we want or what we expect.
In other words, if I'm your manager
and I expect that you will communicate with me
at the end of every day
about how things went that day,
but you don't communicate with me 'til the end of the week,
I'm nervous, okay?
You're not meeting my expectation.
You may say my expectation's unreasonable.
That may be right, but it doesn't matter.
It's my expectation, and if you're not conforming
or matching my expectation, I'm uncomfortable, right?
And we don't wanna make our boss anxious or uncomfortable
(laughing) as rule number one, right?
Make your boss comfortable.
So matching expectations.
So be sure that you clarify with your manager
and with your team, the people who report to you,
what their expectations are or set those expectations
in the case of your team.
And then people will be satisfied
if you're conforming to those expectations.
Now, before we get into the specifics here,
I want you to think about a model of what you do
and who you do it with.
You have a team, right?
And a team has a process.
And there's stuff that comes in to the work of your team
that enables the work of your team.
It's easiest to think about in a manufacturing setting,
where chemicals, wire, metals, plastics,
you know, stuff, right,
comes into the plant at one loading dock.
And then you bend it, you melt it, you shape it,
you attach it, you do (laughing) stuff to it, right?
There's a process that adds value.
And then there's output, right, the product goes out
the other loading dock or the other door, if you will.
Maybe you're working on a maternity ward in a hospital.
And even in a health care case like that,
you have a team on the maternity ward,
a team of nurses and doctors.
And there's stuff that comes in.
There is medicine and bandages and people,
you know, patients.
And then you do stuff with them.
You have a process.
And there is output from that process.
So this model, when we can call it a SIPOC,
supply, supplier, input from the supplier,
a process that adds value to the input,
output, and then it goes to a customer, right?
There's an inputting system.
This is basic systems model.
Every system has these properties.
There's input and there's output
and then there's a process in between that does something
to add value to the input that results in the output.
The performance of almost every system is related
to the nature of the feedback from one system to another.
In order words, from your customers, your receiving unit,
to you drives your behavior.
It affects your behavior.
It should affect your behavior, right?
You know, if you're my restaurant,
and you're getting feedback that people don't like
the spaghetti sauce, just a wild example,
that should affect your behavior.
Now, not, you know, one customer not liking it,
but repeated customers not liking it,
you oughta say, "Hey, maybe, you know,
there's something wrong with the spaghetti sauce."
So feedback from the receiving unit, your customer,
it drives your behavior.
And your suppliers, who drives their behavior?
Who gives them feedback,
and who impacts their behavior?
Well, you do.
You know, if you're the customer of some unit,
and maybe it's an internal unit that supplies your team,
you need to give them feedback on how well they're doing
so they can be motivated,
so they can correct their performance,
guide their performance, et cetera.
The law of feedback is very simple.
It's like if you're driving a car
and your eyes are closed for two seconds,
you may hit something, right?
You may go off course, right?
That's why, you know, drunk driving is a problem
because it slows down your response to feedback.
The feedback's there,
but you're responding to it very slowly,
and you hit something.
That's why you don't drive drunk.
But it's true for every team and every unit
in an organization.
The same thing applies.
So when you think about your process and your team,
you want to give feedback and information to your customers,
tell them what to expect,
tell them any problems you're having, you know,
give them information.
And then there's feedback to your suppliers, right?
You can, easy way to think about that.
And if you just think about, well,
like what, when, who, okay?
Quality of the product coming in.
Any problems you're having with the quality in your process
that's resulting in bad quality going out,
you know, it's why we get recall notices
from our auto company.
Because they've discovered a problem in their process
that's affected some element of the car,
and you're the customer and you get a recall notice.
Well, that's information to you.
That information is really important.
So information can be to customers or to suppliers.
And it can be related to a quality issue.
It can be related to the rate or frequency of output
of your team, right?
Maybe you're getting too much supply
and you can't process it all.
Well, you need to give feedback to your supplier.
Or you may say to your customer, the receiving unit,
"Hey, we can produce more faster."
We need to give them that information or the reverse, right?
We need to slow down.
Timeliness of delivery, critical element
of both input and output.
That may be something that you wanna give feedback
to your supplier or to your customer on.
And anything regarding specifications.
Every product has specifications.
Every service has specifications.
And any time, you know, the customer should have
the same expectations regarding the specifications
of the work you do.
And if you're gonna deviate from those specifications
in any way, you wanna make sure your customer knows that.
Or if the input coming from your suppliers deviates
from the specifications that you need
for the incoming stuff, whatever that stuff is,
you need to be giving that information to your supplier.
So this is really important part of your,
and we normally think, you know,
your first thought about communication as a manager,
I'm sure, is to your team and to your manager,
you know, vertical communication.
But this horizontal communication is just as important,
maybe even more important, in doing a good job as a manager.
Now, let's talk about communicating upward
with your manager.
(light music)

--- Essential Vertical Communication ---

(light music)
-: Everything we've talked about should be a subject
of communication to your manager.
In other words, what are your key performance measures?
Every team, and you should know the team
that you're managing.
You know, there should be three, four, five,
six, seven, key performance measures, not 30.
'Cause if you have 30, nobody's paying attention to them.
Trust me.
We can only pay attention to four.
You know, just four or five, somewhere around that number.
That's the number of data sets
any team can really be responding to.
Now you may have like a, you know,
a data set on productivity or costs,
and then you can drill down on that,
and there are additional data sets under that.
But initially there's some key performance measures
that are the big measures for your team.
You need to know what they are,
and you need to talk to your manager
to clarify what are those key performance measures
that I am responsible for with my team.
And then you need to have that same contract,
if you will, with your team that they know these
are the key performance measures for our team.
Any changes in process,
your team should know about changes in process,
but you need to communicate to your manager any changes
in process that may affect the output of your team.
Problems.
You know, we all hate to be surprised
with problems from subordinates, right?
First, whenever you present a problem to your manager,
present it also with a solution, okay?
Because if you work for me, there's nothing I like less
than to hear about problems you're having with your team.
But you have no solutions.
Think of solutions, right?
And now when you present the problem to me,
be humble about it.
You know, say, look, here's the problem
and here's some solutions I'm thinking about.
Does that make sense to you?
You know, get my input or my feedback?
When we communicate with our manager,
we're gaining a partner, okay?
And you want your manager to be a partner in your work
in your problem solving.
So present a problem, present a solution along with it.
Any improvements we make in the process.
Hey, be willing to brag.
If you're working with your team
and you come up with a way to improve your process,
share that with your manager.
Hey, they wanna know that,
they want to know that you're doing a good job.
So share that with them.
Now to your team, think about this set of data.
And many of these are the same sets of data.
Your team needs to know
what the key performance measures are,
and what is the frequency
with which you communicate those.
The greater the frequency,
the more often that communication occurs,
the better impact it has on performance.
When we watch a basketball game, shoots the ball,
ball goes through the hoop,
and we look up at the scoreboard,
and we wanna see a change right then.
We don't wanna see a change at the end of the game.
We want to see a change within one or two seconds
from the time it goes through the hoop.
And if that doesn't happen, the fans get very upset.
In fact, they'll lose interest.
Think about that in terms of your own team.
What is the frequency of feedback that they receive?
We need a high rate of feedback,
a high rate of frequency to your team.
To your team, communicate any problems.
You know, that you see that they're having,
company events, right?
Changes in the process
that you think need to be made
or that you see that have been made.
Maybe there's a parallel team that's found a better way
to do something and you wanna share that.
So just think about process improvement changes
that you should be sharing
with your team, company events, changes in policies,
changes in insurance, picnics, I don't know, whatever.
Whatever company events are going on.
The strategy.
Are we, what is the strategy?
What's the big challenge that we're all working towards?
That's the strategic goal for our team.
Is there any change in that?
Maybe there's a change that you know
from a customer that has required us to change our strategy
in some way.
Be sure to keep your team informed of that.
They'll be your partners.
They will cause you to be successful
if they feel like you're open, transparent,
sharing with them and showing respect for people, right,
by sharing information with them.
Clarify those elements of communication.
I'm gonna give you a worksheet to do with that,
to work through that with your coach
or your manager and with your team.
Okay?
I hope that makes sense.
I know that was a lot of stuff in a short time,
but spend some time working on that,
because it's critical to your success.
Thanks a lot.
(light pleasant music)

--- Delegation and Assigning Tasks ---

(soothing music)
-: Hi again, folks.
One of the things that will be a major factor
in your success is your ability to delegate to others,
to assign tasks both to individuals and teams,
and do it in a way where they take ownership,
do it in a way where they feel it's something
they're excited about and they want to do,
and they feel comfortable that they can do it.
So I want to go over a basic checklist, if you will,
in terms of delegating and assigning tasks.
And one thing you might do is you might sort of think
back to your own experience and think about when somebody
delegated a task or a project to you and it didn't go well,
and another case where it did go well,
and what was the difference, what was it about how
you received the project, task, delegation
that enabled you to be successful as a subordinate.
And then if you kind of make your own checklist
on that of what worked and what didn't work,
that'll probably be a pretty good guide for yourself
in terms of how you choose to delegate or not delegate.
So let's go through a checklist of what makes
delegation easy or successful,
and what makes it difficult or unsuccessful.
And you may have experienced some of these same things.
First of all, if your team, team members are motivated,
if they are dedicated to achieving goals,
the goals of your organization or your team,
they're gonna welcome delegation,
and they're gonna feel responsible for it.
They're gonna want to achieve it.
If they're not motivated, they're gonna,
they're not gonna want it.
They're not going to accept the delegation easily.
They'll see it as, no, another thing I have to do,
rather than as part of the challenge of achieving
the purpose and the goals of the organization or the team.
So everything is linked to everything else, right.
I mean, as you look at the different sections
of this course, a lot of them are inseparable,
or they're intertwined or interlinked.
And we're gonna do a whole section
on motivation and team leadership.
And those are inextricably linked
to this issue of delegation.
'Cause the higher functioning your team,
the easier delegation is.
Delegation is more successful
when employees know they are expert.
When they are knowledgeable, they feel competent.
You know, somebody asks you to do something,
and you don't really feel skilled,
you don't feel like you have
the knowledge or the skill to do it,
that's a little frightening.
Or you're much more hesitant
about taking on that assignment.
But it's always helpful to have a team
of really competent people.
Life is much easier.
They accept tasks and delegation
and responsibility much more easily.
If your employees, your team members
see problems as your problem, you're in trouble.
But if the team accepts problems as the team's problem,
they're going to accept responsibility
for completing tasks related to achieving high performance.
And that's what you want.
Score keeping, when the team knows the score,
they know where they are, they know where they're going.
They have all that sense of it's their game.
They're playing the game.
You know, if you have a team playing in the World Series
or the playoffs towards the Super Bowl,
or whatever the sport is,
and they're into the goal and they know the score,
when the coach asks a player to run out on the field
and do something, boy, the they're into it.
They'll run out and do it with great enthusiasm.
Not so much if they don't feel like they're winning,
if they don't know what the score is,
they don't know where they're going.
So again, all these things are linked together.
Do they know the priorities?
When you assign a task, does it have priority?
What is the priority of this task?
So you should be giving them,
telling them what the priority is.
People accept responsibility when a task
or a project is well-defined.
So it's your job as the manager to define tasks
and define responsibilities well,
that then enable an employee or a team member
to take on that task and feel good about it.
When they're highly skilled, you're assignment
of responsibility is gonna be much more successful.
When you provide immediate feedback.
Now, when you assign a project, and you know
there are things that are due at this hour
and it'll be done kinds of things.
And then there are things that may
be a six month project or responsibility.
And of obviously how you assign those and how you give
people feedback on them will differ
depending upon the nature of the task
and the length or size of the task.
But it's very important, when you assign a project
to somebody, or a job to somebody,
that you give them short term, tomorrow,
so to speak, relatively quick feedback
that they're going in the right direction.
Not that it's completed, not that they've done it perfectly,
but at least they're on the track.
So think about that when you assign a task to somebody,
when do they need feedback,
and when should you ask how it's going
so you can give them feedback
and they know they're on the right track?
So if you look at the list of when delegation is easy
and when delegation is difficult,
they're basically the opposite of those.
Now here's a checklist for delegation.
And you know, you might, the next time
you're delegating a task, you might print
this out and have it in front of you,
or on your computer and just think whether you're doing
each of these things, or how you're doing them,
and it may help you delegate well.
First, define the objectives or the outcome
related to that task or assignment.
You know, we all like to know we're doing
something worthwhile, and we don't like
to waste our time doing something worthless.
So let 'em know, let 'em know why
what you're giving them to do is important.
Why the outcome is important, who it will affect.
Define the tasks of a project,
or define exactly what you want them to do if you know.
Now sometimes you say I'd like you to go
get all the information you can on this subject.
Go study this subject,
and let me know what you think we should do.
Now, when you give an assignment like that,
you don't really know what all, where to look necessarily.
So you're trusting that person to define the tasks themself.
Where do they go look to acquire
the knowledge you're asking 'em to acquire.
But when you do know exactly
what you want them to do, then tell them.
Think about what resources are required.
Is a budget required?
Or are other people required?
Do they need to employ other people in achieving that task?
Think about the resources.
Tell them what the resources are.
They may ask you questions about the resources,
and that's fine, but be sure to define what resources.
what are the boundaries of this task?
For many assignments,
there are areas you don't want them to go.
You have to use the equipment we have to get this done.
You can't buy new equipment.
That's a boundary.
We can change some elements of the software
to get this task done, but we can't
go out and buy new software to get this done.
Well, those are boundary statements, right?
So if you're assigning a task to me,
I'd like to know where the boundaries are.
And I may come ask you, right.
And you may tell them, you know,
if you're not sure where the boundaries are,
what you can and can't do, please come
and let me know and let's ask.
But boundary definition is important.
State the desired result,
particularly if it's a result that can be measured.
You know, if it's improvement in output by X amount
or improvement in quality by X amount,
be very clear about that.
When is the project or the task to be completed?
On almost every assignment, there's a timeframe,
unless it's just an ongoing job.
But for most, when you're delegating
tasks or projects, what is the timeline.
Be very clear about that.
And think about when you're gonna get feedback from them.
Don't wait until the day something is due.
If it's something that should require a month of work,
don't wait until the last day to ask how it's going.
Ask how it's going 10 and 20 days in,
and ask them if it's gonna
be ready by the end of that month,
if that's the timeline, right.
So make sure they're on the timeline
and they're working towards that timeline.
But have a timeline.
To whom are they reporting?
Are they just reporting to you
or are they reporting to a team?
Or are they reporting to somebody above you perhaps?
That could even be.
But to whom are they reporting?
And when do you expect that report?
You know, in all good communication,
you check out with the other person whether they understand.
So when you go through the previous eight items
on this list with your subordinate or with your team,
ask them if they have the same understanding.
Ask them if it's clear to them.
And if it's not, then of course you clarify.
So those are just some guidelines for assigning tasks
and projects to others, delegating.
I hope that that's helpful.
Thanks a lot.
(inspiring music)

--- Stay Safe! Stay in Bounds! ---

(lighthearted guitar music)
-: Hi again, friends.
I want to talk about a touchy subject,
and the subject is what's okay and what's not okay.
You know, what are the boundaries on our conduct,
on your conduct, my conduct and ethics, values?
What is responsible conduct?
And not knowing the answer
to that can get you in a lot of trouble,
and I don't want you to get in trouble. (chuckles)
All new employee training
and all new management training
should include the subject of ethical behavior.
Now, I don't know your company.
I don't know what you do,
and I don't know what you have been provided in terms
of statements of a code of conduct or ethical behavior,
but you should have a code of conduct, an ethical behavior.
If you haven't been given that,
and you haven't had an opportunity
to discuss it with your manager or whoever's training you
inside the company, ask for it.
Please get that.
It's just really, really important.
It's like, you know, knowing traffic laws,
if you will, when you're driving.
You know, you have to pass a test that says, yes,
I do know that the red light means stop. (chuckles)
Well, similarly, you need to know in your company, you know,
what are the rules of conduct.
So let me just discuss some common code of conduct issues
that I'd like you to think about,
and please don't be insulted by any of this.
I assume you're an ethical and a good person,
but sometimes we trip, you know,
sometimes we have accidents and make mistakes.
So remember my principle of respect for people,
or respect for the individual, right?
If you genuinely have respect for each of your employees
as an individual, and as a diverse individual, right?
Maybe from different ethnic or cultural backgrounds,
but you should respect whatever their cultural,
ethnic, religious background is
and demonstrate that respect to them, value them.
That will help you go a long way.
Respect your customer.
Remember that your job is to serve your customers always,
and if you keep your focus on your customer
and always asking yourself, are we doing the right thing?
What is in the best interest, not of me,
but in the best interest of my customer?
That's a pretty good guideline.
That's a pretty good way of staying within bounds
and engaging in ethical rather than unethical behavior.
If you have an attitude of striving for excellence,
of creative dissatisfaction, you don't become lackadaisical.
You know, you're constantly striving to move up,
not necessarily up the ladder, although that may be true,
but up in terms of being better educated,
being a better human being,
being better physically fit, serving your employees better
and serving your customers better.
If you're always trying to get better,
that will also help you stay within boundaries.
Here, let me go through a list of what may appear
on your company code of conduct statement, might,
and if not, nevertheless, these are things
that you might give consideration to.
You know what's always a good guideline?
I remember (chuckles) one of the things my mother told me.
Believe it or not, I still remember things
my mother told me.
Bless her heart.
You know, she always told me,
"You're gonna do the right thing if you just imagine.
If you have a question about whether you should
or shouldn't do something,
ask yourself if your mother or father,
or your parent was there watching you or listening to you,
would they be okay with it?
And if they would, it's probably okay." (chuckles)
"If they wouldn't,
you might wanna ask yourself some questions
about whether that's the right thing to do."
Another way of thinking about it is think, you know,
if every one of your employees, every one
of your team members was your son or your daughter,
are you treating them the way you would want your son
or your daughter to be treated?
And if you can answer that honestly,
you're probably on the right track, (chuckles)
and you're probably within boundaries.
Treat everyone as you would.
You know, this is the golden rule, right?
Do unto others as you would have them do unto you.
Treat everyone as you wanna be treated,
and we all have experience in organizations,
and we probably, at some time, been treated
in a way we didn't like,
and we've been treated in ways that were respectful,
that we did like.
It's always useful to ask yourself,
am I treating them the way I would like to be treated?
Always follow the law.
Now, you need to know the pertinent laws
in your country, your state, relevant to your work.
There are safety regulations, safety laws.
There are discrimination,
anti-discrimination laws and regulations.
You need to know what they are,
and you need to make sure that you are following the law.
Following the law is sort of a minimum critical requirement.
It's not enough, right?
You should treat people better than just following the law,
but that's kind of, you know, a minimum statement.
Always be honest and fair.
It just never pays off to be dishonest.
So when you think about how you communicate
with your employees, you know, always be honest
to them and always treat them fairly.
If there is a situation, and you are unsure
about the appropriateness of a situation,
maybe between two employees,
maybe some issue of discrimination or conduct
between one employee, between a man and a woman,
for example, between two employees.
Check it out. Get a partner.
Don't assume you alone know the right answer.
Go to your manager, go to the human resource professional,
get a partner in figuring out what to do about it.
Share the information
about whatever the event is, or the conduct,
in an absolutely honest, fair, non-judgmental, if you will.
You know, just the facts,
nothing but the facts and get advice.
It's never wrong to get advice from others,
and it's almost always right.
I don't know where you live, but where I live,
in the United States, we have a very diverse culture.
We pride ourself in the diversity of our culture,
and that's a good thing and as a manager,
you have a responsibility to value the diversity
among your team or your associates in the organization.
So if you harbor any resentment (chuckles)
against any group, get rid of it, okay?
You know, you can harbor resentment
outside the work if you want.
That's not our business, but not inside the workplace.
You can't.
Any violation of ethics you have a responsibility to report.
Cooperate and maintain the private nature
of any investigation into a possible ethics violation.
Okay, those are just some general ethical guidelines.
The one I like the best really
is just think about all those employees
as your son or daughter, (chuckles)
and if you treat them the way they'd want to be treated,
you know, you're probably doing a good job.
I hope that's helpful,
and check it out with your manager
or your human resource professional.
Thanks a lot.
(lighthearted guitar music)
(lighthearted guitar music continues)

--- Exercise 2: Build a Communication Matrix ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Improving Human Performance ---

(gentle music)
-: Hi again, friends.
During this section of the course,
we're going to get into the whole issue of managing
and improving the performance of people.
And you'll remember my three circles,
which you'll see too often, I'm sure.
We start with the people area and talk about managing,
developing, and leading people,
and then we'll talk about teams,
and then we'll talk about process.
But there are several, there's a big section on people,
but it's broken down into several sections.
The first section here, I want to talk
about developing skills, developing competence.
Now, if you back up and you think about human performance,
what is it that makes up human performance?
And that's a complex subject,
but the basics of it are really pretty simple.
And think about it this way.
On the one hand, there's the ability to do something,
the skill, the competence,
and then there's the motivation to do something.
In other words, if I have never learned how to touch type
and you put pages in front of me and a keyboard
and you say, "Larry, I'll give you a million dollars
"if you can type those words at 70 words a minute."
Now, not that I'm a money grubbing capitalist,
but I'll take the million dollars.
I'd like to be able to do it.
Now, if I've never learned to touch type, can I do it?
I'm certainly motivated, right?
But I don't have the skill. I can't do it.
If you say,
"Larry, I'll give you a million dollars to sing an opera,"
it ain't gonna happen
'cause Larry Miller cannot sing an opera,
and there are many, many other things that I cannot do.
And it's not wanting to. It's not motivation.
It's simply lacking the skill.
So we have to have the skill to perform,
the competency to perform.
Plus, we have to have the motivation.
We have to have both of those things.
So in this section of the course,
I want to talk about developing competency,
the can do versus the will or won't do motivation part.
So, let's start breaking that down,
and here's, I'm gonna get out of the way
so you can see this diagram.
A long time ago, probably 30 years ago, I don't know,
I read a book by Robert Mager and Peter Pipe
called "Managing Human Performance."
I think that was the title of it.
And this is that I've used this for years
and I've stolen it from Robert Mager.
I simply call it the Mager Model.
And the Mager Model very simply
says you define what the behavior is,
what the performance you want,
and then there is the can do versus the won't do.
There's the ability to do it versus the won't do.
And then there are on each side,
and we'll talk about the motivation in another section
after this one of the course,
but I want to talk about the can'ts or can do
in this section.
And when you look at, when somebody can't do something,
they're not able to do it,
whether it's playing a musical instrument or a sport
or touch typing or operating a piece of equipment
in your organization or writing a certain kind of code,
if they can't do it, what do you do?
And to break that down, think about it this way.
There's behavioral skills.
Like, I play the guitar, and if you play the guitar,
there are patterns that become habitual,
become very automatic.
I do finger style, blues kind of guitar,
and the thumb, you know, bum-bum, bum-bum, bum-bum,
it's the rhythm section of the guitar, right?
And you learn to do that.
You don't think, you know,
it just bum-bum, bum-bum, does that automatically
and that's your rhythm,
and then you add the melody with the fingers.
And there are patterns on the left hand
and patterns on the right hand,
and as you learn to play the guitar,
initially you struggle with those patterns.
Initially have to go remember, "Oh yeah, it goes here,
"then it goes there, then this goes there.
"There's a C chord and a G, and where's that?"
And your fingers don't really work well, you know?
But once you have developed some mastery of the skill,
it becomes very automatic.
You just change chords really almost without thinking,
and the particularly the right hand patterns
are very, very automatic for you
and that's a sign that you've developed the skill.
You know, when we drive a car, for example,
we don't really think about what we're doing, do we?
I mean, we don't think, "Okay, now I'm gonna go right,
"so let's see, I turn the wheel which way?
"Oh yeah, I turn the wheel this way."
No, you don't think that. You just do it, right?
It's very automatic
because you've developed the habit patterns,
you've developed the skill.
All skills are things that become habitual for you, right?
If they're not habitual,
you really haven't developed the skill.
Now, if you're gonna develop a skill,
and skills are different than knowledge, right?
You know, you can read a book and develop knowledge,
but you can't read a book and develop the skill.
There's education and there's training.
This course is both education and training.
I think the training is very important,
and that means you have to practice things.
That's why I give you assignments
and ask you to work with a coach,
because that's how you're going to develop skills.
You're gonna develop the habits.
So if we wanna develop a skill, we have to provide training.
And I'm gonna give you a model in the next lecture
for providing very basic training.
You as a manager, and there's just no way to escape this,
if you think about the coach of a baseball team
or any athletic team, you know, yeah, they give direction
and they say who goes into play now
and who comes out now, and what plays are we gonna run.
But really the most important thing they do
is help their players develop competence,
help them develop skill.
Coaching a team of unskilled players is hell.
Coaching a team of highly skilled players is a pleasure.
Well, you want a team of highly skilled players,
and you cannot simply rely on the training department.
You know, it's not okay to say, "Well, that's not my job.
"That's the training department's job."
No, the training department may provide certain skills,
but you as the manager who is on the spot,
observing what people are doing,
you are in the best position to help people develop skills.
So in the next lecture,
let me give you a model for doing that.
Thanks.
(uplifting music)

--- A Model for Basic Skills Training ---

(gentle music)
-: Hey again, friends.
I want to give you a basic, simple,
but well proven model for developing employees' skills.
And I know you may think
it's the training department's problem, but no, it's not.
It's your team, your employees. It's your problem.
And being on the spot, being able to observe them,
you really are in the best position
to do the most fundamental training
in basic skills on the job.
Now, here's a six-step model,
and it in part comes from something
called Training Within the Industry, TWI,
which was developed during World War II
to train new employees in airplane factories
and so forth very quickly 'cause there wasn't a lot of time
and they had to hire a lot of people
who'd never been to work,
a lot of women, for example,
who had never been in the workplace
and they had to develop their skills very quickly.
This model worked, and after the war was over,
when American troops and development people went to Japan,
they trained Japanese industry
in the Training Within Industry model,
and to this day, it is still used in Toyota
and in other companies.
So, it's proven to work very well.
Now, I've modified it a little bit
based on my own experience, but that's unimportant.
Here's a six-step model,
and let's go through each of the steps.
Now, a skill is a set of behaviors, right?
You know, if you watch somebody play the guitar
and it looks like one thing.
(Larry hums)
And it sounds good, but it's not one thing.
It's 10 different things going on, right?
There's the position of the hand.
There's the finger. Where do the fingers go?
There's the motion in the right hand,
assuming they're right-handed.
And each of those specific behaviors
is I'll call a pinpointed behavior.
A pinpointed behavior is a behavior
that two people can observe independently
and see the same thing, right?
And that's what we wanna do.
We wanna pinpoint the behaviors
because they're easy to describe to somebody, right?
When you describe a whole skill,
it's like too much, it's too complex,
but if you break it down,
and I'm gonna ask you to do this in an assignment.
I'm ask you to take a skill
that's important in your work area
and I want you to break it down into its component parts,
its component pinpointed behaviors,
and then I want you to train somebody in that skill
or those pinpointed behaviors.
Now, the first thing you do is you define the skill
and you break it down into the pinpointed behaviors.
And in any skill, whether it's a sport,
shooting the ball through the hoop in basketball
or almost any other skill, dancing, you know, perhaps,
are all skills that are comprised
of a specific pinpointed behavior.
So, identify your skill,
and then I want you to break it down
into the three, five, 10 specific pinpointed behaviors
that will make it digestible.
You know, one of the principles here
is the principle of shaping behavior.
Shaping behavior says, you don't say, "Learn French.
"Come tell me when you've finished doing that."
No, no, no.
You say, "Here are three verbs and here are three nouns.
"Learn those," right?
And then you go on to the next three and then the next 10.
And so you build on the first pinpointed behaviors.
You build the next pinpointed behaviors,
until the whole skill gets developed.
But first, break it down.
Prepare the student. What does prepare the student mean?
Make sure they're in the right place.
Sometimes there's equipment required,
a sitting position required, the tools required.
And tell them why it's important.
You know, they need motivation to learn a skill.
So why do you care? Why should they care?
What does it matter to the team?
What does it matter to the company?
You know, give them the answers to those things
so they have some motivation to do it.
Then present the skill.
And by presenting the skill, I mean modeling it, right?
Now, if you wanna learn to play the guitar,
go on YouTube and find,
there's lots of instructional videos on YouTube.
Find a tune that you like
and watch somebody who plays it really well.
And watch how they have their hands, watch how they go.
You know, listen to it. Get it in your mind.
And then begin to break down just one section,
one small section, into the pinpointed behaviors.
So similarly, whatever the skill is at work,
give your student, your employee, the opportunity
to observe somebody who's good at,
and it may not even be you.
It may be some other employee, right? And that's fine.
Have them observe the skill.
Point out to them what the behaviors are.
What is the person doing that makes them competent,
that makes them good.
So, we learn a lot by observation,
by seeing somebody else do it,
so give them that opportunity.
Then practice the pinpointed behaviors.
Not the whole chain of behaviors.
Not 10 different behaviors or the whole skill,
but baby steps, right?
I mean, practice just a few of the behaviors
repeatedly, right?
Watch them, observe them, give them feedback.
Tell them, "That's great,"
or tell them, "Well, if you moved your hand a little here,
"a little there," or whatever the difference is
between competently performing that behavior
and the way they're doing it,
you know, give them feedback on that.
Then watch them practice again.
Watch them practice repeatedly.
Once that becomes fluid, once that becomes easy for them,
they've got the habit down, then you go on to some more
pinpointed behaviors in the sequence,
and you repeat that over and over again
until they've got the whole chain of behaviors.
In behavioral psychology,
the idea of pinpointing is one concept
and the idea of chaining is another concept,
where you take those behaviors
and now you start practicing them together in sequence
'til you've got the whole chain of behaviors,
if that makes sense?
Observe them now practicing the entire chain,
the entire skill.
Praise them, assuming they're doing it well now.
Give them positive feedback or give them some coaching,
some advice as to how they might do it better and improve.
And then they will become comfortable
and they will become confident as they have your praise.
Let them then do their job.
Let them then practice that skill, and follow up.
You know, come back in a day or in a week and observe again.
See that they're doing it well
'cause they might've forgotten some component of it.
But follow up in time, and again, give them feedback,
and then they will have the skill.
Does that make sense?
You know, the way we develop,
this is how human beings develop, right?
This is how children develop
from crawling to walking to running.
They go through that chaining behavior,
learning pinpointed behaviors.
And in an organization,
we improve the organization this way.
There's a big goal, a big challenge, right?
You know, how I want to be able
to play the musical instrument, you know?
I want to be able to play like Chet Atkins or something.
Good luck.
But then we practice the pinpointed behaviors
as we go up the mountain, right?
As we get better and better.
And in an organization,
that improves the measurable performance
as we improve skills, right?
So we don't just go after measurable performance.
We have to build the skills of our employees.
Then we'll get the measurable performance.
I hope that makes sense.
I want to come back and I want to give you an example
from my early career in prison.
Thanks.
(uplifting music)

--- An Example of Skill Training ---

(calm upbeat music)
-: Hi again.
After college, my very first job was in a prison in Raleigh,
North Carolina, working as a counselor.
And I set up a whole systemic change in the organization,
in the prison, where it was a behavior modification effort,
where the idea was inmates would learn to earn.
And they worked in a license tag plant in a printing shop
and they lived in four dormitories,
and we made one dormitory a luxury dorm,
one a standard dorm, one a luxury,
quality, standard, and efficiency dorm.
And we charged rent.
We paid them in points for the work they did
and then they paid rent on the dormitories,
obviously the luxury dorm charged the highest rent
and so forth.
Now, as part of that effort, I observed my inmates
and I learned something about them.
And one thing I learned about them was
there were just some fundamental, I mean,
very fundamental skills they did not have.
You know, the families they came from,
if they were families at all,
they didn't provide the skills.
The skills that you and I might take for granted,
you cannot take for granted in these young inmates I had.
And one of the skills that they lacked
was how to interview for a job.
And I set up a role playing thing
where I was in an office, I had a desk,
and I had a video camera, one of the early video cameras.
And I would bring John, let's call him, into the office
and I say, "John, you know, when you get out,
do you wanna get a job?"
They'd think, "Yeah."
They knew that was the right answer, okay?
They'd say yes.
And I say, "Well, you're probably gonna have to
go interview for a job then, aren't you?"
And they go, "I guess so."
"Have you ever done that?"
"No," and I say, "You know, if you can do it well,
you're more likely to get the job
than if you can't do it well or you do it poorly.
Does that make sense?"
They'd say, "Yeah, that makes sense."
And I'd say, "Well, why don't we practice?
You can't get in trouble here,
you can't lose a job here, you know?
But we can really practice without any fear
of anything going wrong."
And he said, "Okay."
And I said, "Well, you go out the door of the office,
and I want you to knock on the door
and I want you to come in.
And I'm the personnel manager in a mobile home factory,
and we have jobs for guys to hammer nails
and help with the construction of a mobile home.
Does that make sense?"
He'd say, "Yeah."
"So I'm gonna turn the video camera,
and let's watch what happens, okay?
I'll show it back to you, and you can see what happens."
So they go outside the office and I'd say,
"Okay, knock on the door."
And I'd hear, boom.
Just one boom.
Could hardly hear it.
I'd say, "John, come on in."
And they'd open the door.
These guys didn't trust anybody.
They'd open the door and they'd kinda look around.
And I'd say, "Come on in."
They open the door.
And I don't know what it was.
The guys, they walk like this.
And they bopped.
They usually had their shirt hanging out.
And they didn't walk in a straight line.
They sort of snaked, you know?
And they'd kind of go...
Walking towards me.
And then he'd come in front of me
and I'd stick my hand out, and he'd look at my hand
like he'd never seen it before, right?
I'd say, "Hi, John."
And they'd go like this, you know?
You know the phrase close to your vest?
They'd keep their hand close to their vest, close like this.
And I'd say, "Sit down, have a seat."
And they'd sit down, and he put his elbows on my desk,
and he was looking around, and they were still bopping.
They had rhythm, they had music in their brain,
and they were bopping.
And I'd ask him a question or two, and...
Then he'd look.
Stop, stop.
"Let's watch that."
And I'd show them the video back and they'd watch it.
And I'd say, "John, if you were hiring somebody,
would you hire this guy?"
And you know what he said?
He said, "I don't think so."
And I said, "Why?"
He said, "He doesn't look like he wants the job."
I said, "Good observation.
Why do you think he doesn't want the job?"
And he'd say, "I don't know,
he just doesn't look like he wants the job."
And I'd say, "Well, let's..."
What I'm thinking is pinpoint behavior.
"Let's break down what he's doing,
and let's see if we can figure out
how to look like you want the job.
Right, does that make sense?"
And I said, "You know, when you shake hands,
let's just take that, you kinda look like this, right?
Look at my arm.
You see this?
Grab my hand."
And he'd...
"No, no, no, I said.
Stick your hand out like this.
Look at my arm, look.
So you stick it out.
There you go, good.
Give me a good shake, you're a strong guy."
These guys were athletes, you know?
They didn't lack any physical ability.
Shake my hand, good, nice and firm.
Would shake it for a minute, that's good,
good, good, good, good.
Okay, that's one thing.
"You know, just one other thing you might try.
When you knock on the door, instead of just one little...
Why don't you go bump, bump, or bump, bump, bump, you know?
I think people who are more confident go bump, bump, bump.
So why don't we try it again?"
Okay, go out.
They can knock on the door, right?
Funny thing happens.
He knocks on the door, you know what he does now?
He opens the door more confidently.
Maybe, or maybe not, now he walks in a straight line.
He sticks out his hand, right?
And we maybe go through this three,
four, or five times, right?
Each time, he's learning a pinpointed behavior,
practicing that behavior, watching himself,
which is the best feedback of, all right?
I would point something out, or model,
I'm modeling for him. how to shake hands, right?
I'm telling you, guaranteed, within one hour,
I can have that inmate who has never interviewed for a job,
never been taught how to shake hands,
I can have him knocking on the door,
walking in a straight line, looking me in the eye,
which they didn't do.
Looking me in the eye, shaking my hand,
sitting down at the desk and sitting upright.
Not with his elbows on the table,
not wandering around the room bopping, right?
But looking at me.
Now, after an hour, when I play it back for him, I say,
"Would you hire this guy now?"
He says, "Yeah, maybe I would hire him."
Good.
Now, you know, I never talked psychology to him.
I never talked about his ego, and his ID,
and his self-esteem, and his confidence.
But is he more confident now?
Of course he's more confident now.
You know why?
Because he's right.
Because in fact, now he knows what he's doing.
Now he has a clue what to do, and he can do it.
He can see that he can do it.
And now he's developing the chain of behaviors.
He's putting this together and it's both changing, in fact,
his probability of getting the job when he interviews,
but it's even changing the probability
that he will show up to the interview.
'Cause inmates often don't show up for interviews
because they're scared.
They're scared, they have no confidence.
And you know why they're scared?
'Cause they're right.
Because they know they don't know what they're doing.
But once you teach them and they know what to do,
they'll do it and they'll show up for the job, right?
Does that make sense?
So their internal things are changing,
at the same time, you're changing external behavior.
Those things are very, very related.
And this is not nothing rocket science here is it?
But you know what, for an inmate,
getting out of prison, it's a big, big deal.
It's an absolutely core skill.
And unfortunately in the United States, we don't do it.
You know, we're terrible at this.
Then we wonder why they come back.
Well, they come back because they don't have the skills,
that's why they come back.
Well, anyway, I use that just as an example,
and if you think about those six steps
of developing a skill of training, they're all there.
They're all there in that example.
You think about the total skill of interviewing.
You break it down into pinpoint the behaviors.
You observe them do it, right?
You model for them.
"Look at my arm."
You know, you model the behavior.
You have them practice, "Come on, shake.
Come on shake my hand."
They practice the behavior, they watch themselves back,
they get feedback.
Then they put the whole chain together
once they've learned the 10 skills or the 10 behaviors,
whatever the number is.
And then they gain confidence,
and then in the employee team setting,
in your work setting, they are better employees,
and your job as a manager becomes a lot easier.
Hope all that makes sense.
Thanks a lot folks.
(calm upbeat music)

--- Exercise 3: Create a Skill Development Plan ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- The Hierarchy of Motivation ---

(gentle music)
-: Hi again, friends.
Let's switch now from
the competency side of the equation,
to the motivation side of the equation.
You'll remember my little formula here,
of competency times motivation equals performance.
Which is pretty right,
I mean, there are other factors,
but this is a nice simple way of thinking
about what results in human performance on your team,
or in your organization.
And you know, the subject of motivation,
and I'm sure you've thought about this,
I'm sure you've thought about it
in terms of your own motivation from time to time.
And you've probably thought about it in terms
of the motivation of others around you,
or your team members.
There have been hundreds of books
written on the subject of motivation.
I've written a few of them.
And there are numerous theories of motivation,
some named after the name of some professor
who came up with an interesting construct.
I'm gonna give you a simple model.
It's not a, it's not a dumb model,
it's a smart model, but it's simple.
And what I've attempted to do in this model,
is integrate, or unify different theories of motivation,
with a particular eye towards thinking about
what you can actually do as a manager.
You know, there's some theories of motivation
that go into psychological states,
and you know, even genetics,
which you can't do anything about.
So it's kind of none of your business.
You don't have to worry about it.
Just put that outta your mind.
You, as a manager have to think about,
how do I affect the motivation of those around me,
and those under me, my employees?
So, this model addresses things
that you can do something about, which is your job.
And your job, you know,
there are theories of motivation that say,
"Well, money doesn't matter.
People don't care about money.
They just care about self-esteem or something else."
Look, don't worry about that.
For you, it's not important.
What your job is, is to maximize all the potential sources
of motivation that can impact your people.
So, you know, human beings are different.
You know, we're diverse, and we're unique,
and depending upon how we were raised,
and what our interests are, you know,
some people are very interested in money,
and moving up the ladder.
Others are more interested in family time.
There are lots of different interests that people have.
So you can't, you know, you're not smart enough,
and neither am I, to say,
"Well, I'm gonna do this for this person,
and I'm gonna do that for that person,
I'm gonna do this for this person."
Because you have to deal with them differently.
No, you don't.
What you have to do,
is you have to optimize
all the potential sources of motivation
for your team members.
And if you're doing that,
some people will respond to some things,
and others will respond to other things,
and you'll be doing your job.
Now, here's my little model.
I'll call it a hierarchy of motivation.
And I think you can, if you think about your own life,
I think you can see this, and understand it.
And in the following lectures,
I'll go into more depth into each of these areas.
But one way of thinking about motivation,
is to think about this pyramid,
where at the top of the pyramid,
there, we have a spiritual nature.
We have a search for meaning in our life,
a search for purpose in our life.
And that's the big deal for human beings,
for the human condition.
It's why we seek out religions,
and why all religions all over the world,
give purpose and meaning to their followers.
And people follow them precisely for that reason,
because they need meaning,
and purpose in their life.
And we don't have to say,
"Well, one religion is better than another,"
or right or wrong, or any of that.
None of that matters.
I'm just sort of stating a sociological fact,
that religion and purpose,
and that purpose may be country,
it may be family, it may be community,
in addition to religion,
but we seek that meaning.
Now, is there meaning at work?
Is there purposefulness at work?
And I would say, "Of course there is."
Which doesn't mean it's quote, "religious,"
but we find ways of finding meaning in our work.
I find meaning in my work.
I hope you find meaning in your work.
So I'll call this sort of the spiritual realm,
or the realm of purpose.
You can think of that as the higher level of motivation.
Then there's how we interact with other people.
There's community, there's teams,
there's families, there's social bonding.
And it is our nature,
it is in the human genetic code, if you will,
in the human nature to be motivated
by being part of a group.
You know, when I, when I worked in prisons,
people would say there's a gang problem.
And I tell 'em, "No, there's not a gang problem.
Gangs are the solution to the problem."
You know what the real problem is?
You show me a community where
the family unit is healthy and strong,
I'll show you a community
that does not have a gang problem.
Show me a community where family units
are in disintegration,
where there is no safety
for the young person in the family.
And what do they seek?
They seek a group, right?
And that group is in the inner city, and other places.
And it happens all around the world, by the way.
That's the gang.
That's the group that's meeting
the psychological need of bonding.
Well, in the workplace.
And I'm gonna talk a lot about teams
as we go through the course.
But we like to work in groups,
we like to work in teams.
And I'll come back and talk about that.
But that's the social dimension of motivation.
And it's a major driver in our workplace.
Then there's what I'll call situational motivation.
And that's, that's our immediate environment.
That's the consequences to our behavior.
That's the prompts, the stoplight,
the sign that says, "Safety."
"Wear a safety hat," you know,
"Wear a hard hat," or "Wear safety gloves,"
or "Wear safety glasses,"
or, you know, we see these things
in our work environment,
that like, the red light, the traffic light,
the stop sign, they're meant to be cues, prompts,
to stimulate a certain behavior, right?
And then there are consequences to behavior.
And we'll talk more about that in some depth.
But those are things that we do manage.
You know. We manage the social more
than we manage the spiritual,
although we do have an effect on that.
And even more so,
we manage the situational impact on motivation.
So, we're gonna talk about how to do that.
And you can think of that
as sort of going from the material to the spiritual,
and by, you know, saying that's material.
I don't mean that in a negative way,
it's just more immediate.
It's more the, you know, the more,
the immediate consequences to our behavior.
So, we're gonna go through that model
in the following lectures,
and I hope you can see things,
and I'm sure you can see things
that you will be able to do,
to maximize the motivation of your people.
Thanks.
(gentle music)
(upbeat music)

--- The Power of Purpose ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi again, folks.
Let us talk a little bit more about the top of that pyramid,
the power of purpose in our lives and at work.
How does this translate to the workplace?
What is it about our work that is meaningful
on a higher level than just getting a paycheck
or the social bonds with our team?
Does our company do something worthwhile?
Now, you know, I have a, sort of a theory of capitalism,
if you will, that says that, you know,
the purpose of business is to create wealth.
And I don't mean just, you know,
in a Trumpian way to make me rich.
I mean to increase the wealth of our society.
You know, and this is the good part of capitalism.
You may argue that there are bad parts of capitalism,
and I don't want to get into that now,
but the good part of capitalism,
and if you look at China,
when China really became capitalists,
although they still wanna say they're communists,
and they freed up free enterprise
and the motivation for people to go out
and start companies and make money,
the entire wealth of society went up.
And if you look at North Korea and South Korea,
you see the difference between what free enterprise,
the motivation to make money can do
to increase the whole wealth of society.
'Cause South Korea is a very wealthy society,
obviously relative to North Korea.
So I think,
and I think this is a good thing, you know, you know,
when you look at the internet, when you look at,
you know, Microsoft and Facebook and Google
and, you know, all the great companies
that have just started by young people mostly
in the last 20 years, immense wealth has been created.
And that wealth, and then just take Facebook as an example.
It's not just that, you know,
Mark Zuckerberg became a billionaire.
It's not just that.
There is wealth in our ability to know each other,
our ability to stay in touch with each other.
You know, we, on Facebook, create communities, right?
I mean, it's sort of been amazing to me
that on Facebook a large percent of my high school,
and it's been a long time, okay, since high school.
But a large percent
of my high school friends were all connected on Facebook.
My college friends were connected on Facebook.
So my army friends, you know,
when I was in the army, are connected on Facebook.
Well, you know, that's a form of wealth.
That ability to be in touch,
stay connected, to care about each other.
Well, that was created by business.
You know, business created something of value.
I've done a lot of work with healthcare companies
and pharmaceutical companies, and the people
at those companies really do believe they're saving lives.
They believe they're reducing human suffering.
I had a bout of cancer.
I had colorectal cancer.
We won't go into it, sort of a bloody subject, but I'm fine.
I'm fine thanks to the amazing treatment I received.
Yes, the chemotherapy and so forth.
My life is saved and I'm a well-functioning,
more or less, healthy human being with family
and connected lives and so forth because
of what businesses created and did.
So, you know, think about what value,
what is the purposefulness in the work that you do,
in the business that you do.
And you need, you know, this is the value of meditation.
I mean, I think you need to meditate on that.
I think you really need to think deeply.
If you can't find anything worthwhile
in the work of your company, I strongly recommend you leave
and find another company, find a different place to work
that gives you meaning in your life.
'Cause we only go around this life once
unless you believe in reincarnation.
But we only go around once,
and you ought to get all the gusto you can,
all the value out of life you can.
And it comes from meaningfulness.
Some years ago,
I read a novel by the American author, Jack London.
The name of the book is "Martin Eden."
I recommend it highly to you.
And there's a line in the book, the line is,
"God's own mad lover should die for the kiss,
but not for $30,000 a year."
And the book is very much about motivation,
the motivation of a writer,
and writers struggle with motivation, by the way.
That's another long story, but think about that line.
It's a wonderful line in literature.
God's own mad lover should die for the kiss
or will die for the kiss nearness
to that which we hold to be most noble.
Why will we die for the kiss?
And people will, they'll die for God,
religion, country, family.
They'll die for things that are ennobling.
You know why?
It's the mystery of sacrifice.
When we sacrifice ourself, our life, our money,
our time to something we believe is noble,
there's no sacrifice at all.
There's an investment.
It comes back with a guaranteed return.
And the return is in our own self-esteem.
The return is in how we feel about ourself.
Because when we sacrifice for that which we believe
to be noble and worthy,
we become like that unto which we sacrifice ourself.
We become more noble and worthy,
and we all want to be noble and worthy.
And if we can honestly say, and just ask yourself,
when was the last time you know
you were sacrificing your time, your energy,
your money for that what you believed
to be noble and worthy?
How did you feel about yourself?
I know the answer.
The answer is you felt more noble and worthy.
You felt you were becoming like that
unto which you were sacrificing yourself.
And that is a very good thing.
Well, at work, what are we sacrificing our time,
our energy, our money?
What are we sacrificing for?
And is it ennobling to us?
Are we becoming more noble through that which we do at work?
Part of your job as a manager is
to help people connect their work to their higher self,
to their more worthy, spiritual, noble self.
I know you didn't think that was your job
when you signed up for this, but it really is.
Let's come back in the next lecture
and talk about social motivation.
Thanks.
(upbeat music)

--- Social Motivation and Creating The Bonds of Trust ---

(bright music)
-: Hi, friends.
Let's talk about social motivation,
the motivation that comes from our bonds with family,
with friends, with community, with country,
with our team at work.
Now, I want to just share a sort of a long history thought
about work systems and the role of social motivation.
Now, there's a field of psychology
called evolutionary psychology,
and a field of sociology called sociobiology.
And the idea is that,
just like Darwin's theory of evolution,
that we evolve physically,
that maybe there's some survival of the fittest factor
that has affected how we think, feel, and act,
how we behave,
that's in our genetic code.
Now, if you have a dog, like I do,
if you have a Labrador retriever or a golden retriever,
and when they were a little puppy and you tossed the ball,
did they have trouble figuring out what to do?
No, they didn't.
They knew exactly what to do.
Happy as a lark, they ran after the ball
and brought it back to you, and they thought this was great.
They'll do this all day.
I mean, they think this is
just the greatest thing in the world.
I had a Cairn terrier.
You don't need to know what a Cairn terrier,
but you can look it up if you want, but it's a terrier.
Terriers are dirt dogs, you know, they hunt for rodents.
You throw a ball in front of my Cairn terrier,
the terrier looks at you like, "Huh?
Go chase it yourself if you want the ball."
You know, they don't get it.
They have no interest at all, from a puppy.
And it's not a matter of training.
It's a matter of instinct or their genetic code.
Now, in birds and in all other kinds of animals,
you can see behavior that is natural, instinctive for them,
meaning in their genetic code.
Is it possible that there is some behavior, some emotion,
some tendencies in the human species
that are genetically endowed,
that have come from what led to our survival?
Let me suggest that the answer is yes.
Now, we could have long theoretical discussion about that,
but just take that thought for a moment,
and now look at the history of humankind on this planet.
Some say we've been on this planet around 150,000 years.
We don't need to debate that, but a long time.
Now, you go back more than 200 years ago,
and you say, how did we work?
What was the work system?
If you were hunting antelope on the Serengeti plains,
where supposedly all of our genes evolved from,
did you go out as a solo hunter,
all by yourself, doing your own thing?
I'm doing my own thing.
I'm going hunting by myself.
Is that how you hunt an antelope?
No.
You know why?
You can't catch an antelope.
I don't care how fast you think you are,
you are not as fast as an antelope, okay?
Cheetahs have trouble catching an antelope.
You will not catch an antelope, okay?
If you were a Native American
on the North American plains hunting buffalo,
did you go out as a lone brave hunting buffalo by yourself?
You better not.
You know why?
Because buffalo are actually quite aggressive animals,
and they will turn on you
and they are a lot bigger than you.
They will turn on you and they will charge you,
and they will hunt you, right?
So you didn't go hunting buffalo by yourself.
You went with who?
You went with your tribe,
which was an extended family, right?
Every hunting party, whether on the plains of Africa
or the North American plains,
was a family unit.
They knew each other well.
They grew up together.
They lived together.
They were related to each other,
and that's how you survived.
That's how you did the work.
If you couldn't do that,
if you couldn't work well with others,
your genes, thank you, Darwin,
were removed from our genetic code, right?
It was a requirement to survive.
And then we worked,
we began to domesticate animals, right?
And we developed family farming, right?
We had family farms.
The farming unit,
whether in Europe or in the United States or in China
was a family unit.
We lived and died together.
If the corn didn't grow,
we were all gonna go hungry together,
and therefore, we didn't blame each other.
We had to figure it out, right?
We were a pretty good tightly bonded team.
And then the craft shops of the printing press
and the blacksmith's shop,
and the furniture, you know, the cabinet maker, craftsmen.
If you went into those, quote, factories,
there were small units of people who were,
if they weren't in fact a family,
and there's a good chance they were a family,
they were very family-like.
You went to work as a junior apprentice
for a master craftsman, and you were like his son, right?
I mean, there was that very bonded relationship.
If you look at the whole flow of human history
for up until the 1800s,
which is just a blink of an eye
relative to 150,000 years, right?
200 years.
Take that as a generous amount of time.
We worked in these small units, these small family units.
Maybe there is something in our genetic code
that requires us
or needs us to work with a small group of people.
It's possible.
Just consider it for a moment.
What happened in the late 1800s?
And I'll just use US examples 'cause it's what I know best,
but it happened in Europe and it happened in Japan,
it happened in other places in the world.
Industry started to develop, the Industrial Revolution,
and suddenly because of the tractor and the combine
and all those devices,
we didn't need so many people on the farm.
So they had to go someplace,
and we needed them in Detroit and Chicago and Cleveland.
We needed them in the steel mills of Pittsburgh.
We needed them in the factory, so we migrated.
You know, there was a huge transition,
literally a human migration
from farming, agricultural areas of the country
to the cities where the factories were.
And now,
when we worked in the craft shop or the family farm,
we had no traffic problems, did we?
No, 'cause we didn't work in big buildings.
We worked in little buildings.
Suddenly we're working in these huge,
the River Rouge plant in Dearborn, Michigan,
of Ford Motor Company, and we're on an assembly line.
And the supervisor, now we divided hierarchically
who decides, who makes decisions.
On the family farm, we all kind of made decisions.
We all sort of owned it.
Now, in Henry Ford's factory,
the supervisor said, "Do your own work.
Don't talk to the person next to you.
I'm your super.
If you have a problem with your work, you come see me.
I make the decisions, okay?
Don't talk to the guy next to you.
Keep your eyes on your own work.
Do your own work, Johnny."
I remember that in school.
"Do your own work!"
Whew, scary.
I'm looking at my desk and my paper,
and I didn't know what to put there.
Honestly, I had nothing in here that,
I had a lot of stuff in here,
but none of it belonged on that paper, trust me.
And there was always some girl writing away,
and I'm sure some of that probably belonged here, too.
I look and see what...
No, no, keep your eyes on your own paper, you know?
Oh, we divided people, we separated people,
we isolated people, we isolated,
And in Henry Ford's factory, you know, Harry Bennett,
the head of manufacturing at Ford Motor Company
during the 1930s,
you know who he hired to be supervisors
to walk around the plant?
Right out of prison, he hired ex-cons, tough guys
to walk around the plant with clubs.
You may think this is just crazy talk,
but this is in fact true,
to walk around the plant with clubs
to beat people who got out of line.
This violated the entire natural psychology of human beings.
When we isolate people, whether it's in the inner city,
where young folks formed gangs,
or whether it's in prisoner of war camps
where they isolated people
and people died if they weren't bonded to their buddies,
their comrades, right?
That's what kept them alive.
And now we created
this entirely impossible psychological situation
in the workplace where people could not survive,
and they went out and they formed what?
Unions.
People say there was a union problem.
No, there was no union problem.
There was a work system problem.
Unions were the solution to the problem,
like gangs were the solution
to the problem in the inner city.
And they went down the union hall,
they sang songs together, they drank beer together.
You know what they called each other?
Brothers, sister.
Why did they do that?
Why did they call each other brothers?
We're brothers in the same union.
Why did they?
'Cause that's where they were.
They needed psychological safety
because of the nature of that work system.
And now we had great union management conflict,
bloody conflict, in some cases,
but it was over the nature of the work system.
Yes, it was also over compensation and safety
and a lot of other things,
but at the heart of it was the nature of the work system
that violated what we had gotten into our genetic code
over 150,000 years.
Now, what's happened?
We've learned something about psychology and motivation,
and what we have learned is people need that bond.
They need the team.
They need their brothers and sisters.
They need to work in work groups
where they don't feel isolated,
where they feel like the people around them
care about each other,
where they're able to solve problems together,
they're able to talk to each other,
and you as the manager
have respect for people and their needs,
their needs to be a bonded group.
I hope all that makes sense,
because we're gonna talk a lot about teams
as we go through this,
and we're gonna talk about social capital,
creating the the value, and it is,
the social capital, which is the bond of people at work.
People innovate because of the bond,
because of the effective relationships and communication
among a trusting group of people in the workplace,
and that's the basis of the team system,
and you are going to become a great team leader
as we go through this course,
because you want to capitalize
on that natural instinct of human beings
to be bonded together.
Thank you.
(bright music)

--- Motivation and Organization Life Cycles ---

(bright music)
(music continues)
-: Hi, again friends.
I want to tell you a story.
And this may seem a little bit of a diversion
from our pyramid on motivation,
but if you think about it for a little bit,
I think you'll find it's not.
It's about the organization's culture.
You know, we have sort of concentric circles
where there's you and individuals in the middle
and the teams, sort of the family unit, if you will,
and then the organization and then the larger society,
however, you choose to define that,
the national culture, or the industry culture,
or the global culture all of which are changing, right?
And that's why we have to change,
we have to adapt to changes in the larger cultures
of organization, and society.
And if you study the culture of societies
there's a clue about leadership
and how we impact the motivation
of other people.
And you as a manager,
and this is certainly as you move up in management,
it will be more true.
If you're starting out in management,
it's less true.
But we as managers, leaders, affect the larger culture.
So, I want you to think about the nature of that culture
for just a few minutes.
Some years ago,
I wrote a book called "Barbarians to Bureaucrats,"
and it honestly was based on courses I took in college.
Sometimes you do remember stuff from college
that are useful.
I had a wonderful professor named Dr. Richard Barton,
and he taught Western Civ 101 and 102,
you know, those freshman courses you had to take,
and he taught them according to the theory and the study
of Arnold Toynbee, a great British historian,
who studied the rise and fall of 23 civilizations
and asked the question, were they all sort of random,
unique events, or was there a pattern to them?
Was there something we can learn from the emergence
of a civilization and then the decline of a civilization?
And while he found they're all unique to some degree,
like human beings, you know, we're all unique,
but there are life cycle patterns to human beings.
Two-year-olds tend to behave in certain ways.
It's a necessary part of growing up and maturing.
They have to explore, they have to learn to say no
and exert control on their environment,
and teenagers behave differently, etcetera.
So, there are some sort of normative patterns,
even though we're also unique.
Those are not contradictory things.
And in the life cycle of civilizations,
as they emerge and as they decline,
there are some predictable patterns of culture
and of leadership.
I took that pattern of history
and overlaid it over corporations
in my "Barbarians to Bureaucrats" book.
And I have an online course on this whole thing
on life cycles
and leadership that goes into some depth in this,
and I just want to give you an overview of it.
You can study it more if you like.
But here's very briefly the pattern.
In the early start of a civilization, it's integrating.
It integrates other people, Jews, and Gentiles, for example,
or Mohammed, integrating different tribes into one, right,
or the British Empire, integrating Canada,
and other parts of the world into the British Empire.
So, there's sort of this integration process as a culture,
whether civilization or a company,
think about it for a little bit,
as a company grows and becomes more complex,
there's this integrating thing going on,
and then as civilizations are declining,
it also happens to companies,
they begin a disintegrating process.
They begin to fall apart, literally.
When somebody says, I'm falling apart,
or she's falling apart,
or he's falling apart, what does it mean?
It means literally, you know, they're going to their core
and things they were able to do in the past
they're not able to do.
Well, companies go through a very similar thing.
And here, you know, this just illustrates some
of the common characteristics
on each side of the integrating
and disintegrating curve.
In the early days,
and just think about early Apple computer,
or early Google, or early Facebook,
the motivation of people and the motivation of leaders
is long-term.
In civilizations, people will die for the cause,
the religion, or their people,
or whatever the core of the civilization is.
People will sacrifice.
They're not that smart, you know,
they don't have a lot of knowledge.
You know, the founders of Facebook, for example,
are much smarter today than they were when they sat around,
you know, tables at Harvard and started
to construct this thing called Facebook.
They didn't know very much, really.
They know a lot more now, right?
But in the beginning, they have a lot of faith.
They have faith in the future.
They have faith in an idea, right?
And they will sacrifice for that idea.
And that brings in other people.
In the later days of a civilization, they lose faith.
They don't have so much faith in the future.
They don't have so much faith in the idea.
And you can see this in countries,
and you can see it in civilizations.
They begin to lose long-term motivation,
this is where the connection to motivation comes,
and it becomes more of what's in it for me now, right?
People are sort of looking out for themselves rather
than looking out for their tribe,
their family, their country,
their religion, whatever the motive force is, right.
Well, in companies too, people are less willing to sacrifice
for the vision, for the idea of the company,
and they're more asking, you know,
well is there a path for me?
How much am I going to make?
What is my motivation?
In the early days of a civilization,
there isn't a lot of complexity.
People live in tents and huts
and it's because they're moving across the plain,
or they're moving horizontally, not vertically.
They don't have tall buildings.
In the declining days of a civilization,
they build tall buildings, but they're not moving outward.
They stop moving outward and they build walls.
Hadrian's Wall, the outer reach of the Roman Empire,
was built about 300 years before the actual decline
of the Roman Empire,
but it signaled the beginning of the decline
because it signaled the end of outward expansion.
When you're not integrating, bringing people in,
and when you become fearful of the barbarians outside,
you build walls to keep them out.
Well, that is a certain sign of the decline
of the civilization.
And you can see some parallels in,
I won't go into the details,
but some parallels in modern political culture.
We become fearful of that integrating process
and we begin that disintegrating process.
So, these are just a few of the emerging periods.
We have heroes of the present, you know.
We have an Alexander the Great.
You know, we have a Henry Ford.
We have a Steve Jobs.
We have heroes who are alive in the culture,
who are models for us.
But in the declining days, they worship heroes of the past.
And they say, well, we want to make America great again.
Like, it's there's something in the past
that we've longed for.
We're not even sure what it is,
but it's definitely something in the past
and that's because we don't see heroes
of the present, right?
That's common.
I was consulting with Ford motor companies
some years ago really before re-emergence,
which they have re-emerged,
but this 20 years ago, or so.
And I was in the engine division
of Ford Motor Company,
and I was interviewing managers,
and I an interesting question to ask a manager is
who are your heroes?
Who do you look up to?
Who are your models?
And as I asked that question,
they were all people who were dead.
They were all people who were in the past, and I said,
isn't there anybody now,
is there anybody alive in the company now
who you look up to as a hero?
And they said, yeah, couldn't think of anybody.
Well, that's a certain sign of decay.
But you can sort of identify stages of development
of a culture by leadership styles and characters.
And in the beginning of a civilization, in the beginning
of the emergence, there's what I'll call a prophet.
But that's prophet with a P-H-E-T,
not an F-I-T.
F-I-T comes later.
First, there's a P-H-E-T.
And that is the person who has the vision,
who has the values,
who has the inspiration that causes people
to want to follow them.
The Steve Jobs, if you will,
or the you know at General Electric
and the Westinghouse companies, Edison, you know,
Thomas Edison was a prophet-like character.
And prophets are almost
never good administrators, you know.
They don't keep track of things very well.
But people will sacrifice for their ideas.
That's the nature of the prophet.
The prophet is quickly,
if there is to be progress in the company,
or the civilization,
there is another character that I call the barbarian.
And this is the more commanding, quick-acting,
decisive leader who leads people on the march of conquering,
if you will.
And that character, you know,
this is the Genghis Khan, right?
This is the Patton, kind of, you know, general, if you will.
And they lead the expansion.
But they're not the nicest people.
They're not great consensus, you know, decision makers.
They're not people who can lead a complex organization
and as organizations grow, they become increasingly complex.
Necessarily, you know,
I've started my own company three times, and,
in the beginning, you know, I had a partner,
and we had an accounting department.
You know what the accounting department was?
It was the drawer in my desk
where the checkbook was,
Literally, that was the accounting department.
We wrote checks.
We got money in we deposited,
and we wrote it in the checkbook just like you do
for your family, right?
I mean that was the accounting department.
It was that simple at the end of the year.
We you know, we hired a CPA to do our taxes.
For us, but it was extremely simple.
Now that works when they're like two, three, four,
five of you, you can do that.
But once there are 100 of you, you can't do that.
It becomes a full-time job, right?
And eventually, it's a department in the organization.
And as we go up the life cycle curve,
we must develop complexity necessarily.
You know, initially, there's like making it and selling it.
It might be the initial split in the organization
where you have manufacturing,
and you have sales marketing, right.
Some people go out, that's what I call the builder
and the explorer.
Some people stay home,
and they keep making things and other people,
Magellan goes out exploring around the world, you know,
but we're building factories and cities, you know.
In the earliest days of a civilization, we have one room,
you know, we live in huts and tents.
But in later days in the civilization, we have a den,
a living room, a dining room, a recreation room,
bedrooms for each child, and, you know,
our homes become more complex.
Well, that's just like the organization of a corporation.
They increasingly become more complex
and now the focus of the mind shifts.
It shifts increasingly away from the long-term vision
for which we will sacrifice and increasingly towards
the mechanics of making the factory work,
or making marketing plans or sales plans,
and make making those work right,
and this shift in motivation is
absolutely necessary, you know,
you have to go into this builder,
and explorer age where you need great engineers, you know,
or in the earlier days,
you don't necessarily need great engineers
you may have a great engineer.
but you don't need a great engineering department.
But later you do.
And then you need a great sales marketing department.
And you even need a great accounting department,
and human resource department and so forth.
All these divisions of the organization.
Now a point comes in the history of civilizations,
and it comes in the history of companies too,
where we have administrators.
And administrators are necessary.
Human resource people,
accounting people, IT, information technology people,
those are all enabling processes that serve making it
and selling it, right, the basics of the business.
But they are administrative processes.
In fact, your business is information technology,
then that's the manufacturing,
that's the core of the business, right?
But increasingly we have the support, you know,
we have we have people doing strategy, right,
dedicated to strategy.
We have people, you know, developing teams, you know,
a training department, and so forth.
But those are not the core of the business.
The core of the business is creating it,
making it, selling it, servicing it.
You know, that's the core process in the organization.
But increasingly administrative processes
become dominant with complexity, right.
And a point comes in the life of the company where the CEOs
of the company are finance people.
They're having at Ford Motor Company.
You know, Henry Ford was an engineer.
He made stuff.
He literally made stuff.
Thomas Edison lived in the lab.
He said, my business is thinking.
He chewed tobacco.
He spat on the floor.
His wife bought him a spittoon to spit in.
He never used it.
When asked why, he said,
because the spittoon is hard to hit,
but the floor, you never miss.
Well, you know, this is a prophet barbarian kind of guy.
Would he survive today's General Electric?
Probably not.
Why?
Because order becomes more important in the second,
you know, on the downside of the curve.
More important than the creative,
you know creative people in the creative process.
But complexity increasingly requires order,
and you can see this particularly in the life cycle
of Ford Motor Company,
which is as it's not like it just went up and down.
They're often waves right in the in the reality
of how these things work, and Ford Motor Company
has had numerous waves that it's gone through.
But, you know, after World War II,
Ford Motor Company was a mess.
General Motors with Alfred Sloan had developed integrating,
but complex organization.
Ford Motor Company had not,
and Ford Motor Company was losing.
And they hired what were called the whiz kids,
who were Robert McNamara and R.J. Miller,
and a whole group who had worked
at the Defense Department creating the supply chain.
And they did a great job.
It's one reason we won World War II.
It was not just because of our troops fighting,
but how we managed the supply chain.
Robert McNamara was a PhD in administration.
Think about it.
He became the CEO of Ford Motor Company.
Ford Motor Company, during the early part of the 50s,
had a bit of a re-emergence
because of the creation of order.
But Robert McNamara valued administrative processes.
He didn't care about engineers.
And you know what happened at Ford Motor Company?
We got increasing levels of accounting,
increasing levels of strategic planning,
and engineers were denigrated.
The value of engineering was lost
because they were cutting costs.
They were more concerned with costs than creating,
and we ended up with completely rotten cars.
Robert McNamara, Left Ford Motor Company,
where'd he go, the US Defense Department,
as we were about to do what, go to Vietnam.
You know what Ho Chi Minh said?
I was in Vietnam, so I have some feelings about this.
Ho Chi Minh said, "You will kill 10 of my men for every one
of yours I kill, but it is you who will tire of it."
And we tired of it.
The barbarian is willing to die for their cause.
Administrators are counting and recording.
You know, we could have killed the Viet Cong
with filing cabinets, we would have won that war
because we had more filing cabinets than anybody
on the planet.
I worked in filing cabinets when I was in Vietnam.
I know about that, but you don't win a war
in filing cabinets.
You win a war by killing the other guy.
I'm sorry to say that, but that's the way it works.
But administrative processes had taken over
and we lost as a result.
As Ford Motor Company was losing
because of administrative processes,
accountants becoming more dominant,
and cost-cutting becoming more dominant
than the creative process.
And when the administrators are in control,
they create bureaucracy.
And what is bureaucracy?
It's the tight grip of control.
And what do bureaucrats do to prophets and barbarians?
They crucify them.
Why?
Because they're disorderly.
The nature of a prophet is to create disorder,
is to throw up the current order and create something new.
Well bureaucrats value the existing order.
They don't want prophets and barbarians messing things up.
So they exile, or exiling is more popular today
because their problems with crucifying people.
But they get rid of them and it is prophets and barbarians
that are the renewal mechanism.
And if your company is crucifying and exiling prophets,
and barbarians you are going to die.
Your company has lost its soul.
It has lost its creativity.
And eventually, what do you end up with?
You end up with aristocrats.
You know what an aristocrat is?
They look marvelous riding around on horses,
going on fox hunts.
They're not actually hunting foxes.
Some poor servant has carried a dead fox across the field
and they're chasing dogs that are chasing the scent
of a dead fox.
That's what's really going on.
It's all a charade, but they look marvelous.
But it's all a game.
And at the top of many of our corporations,
we have people who look marvelous,
fly around in wonderful airplanes, modern-day horses,
but they don't know how to do anything.
They don't know how to design an engine.
They don't know how to write code.
They don't know how to do the real stuff
of the organization.
They're merely lording over it like feudal lords of old.
And that is a sure sign that the culture will decay.
Now if you think about motivation through the life cycle,
very different in the beginning,
in the end, and in the middle.
In the beginning there's a great fear of failure,
because legitimate fear of failure.
If you're in an entrepreneurial company,
the majority of them do not succeed.
And that's okay, that's the nature of the beast, right?
But some of them do and they're great rewards.
So, there's a huge risk-reward ratio
and everybody doesn't belong there.
Okay, as we grow into the builder and explorer stage,
We must have creative dissatisfaction.
We cannot become complacent, if we become complacent,
we have entered the administrative period,
But we must have the creative dissatisfaction
of thinking there's always a better way to do it.
We must engage in continuous improvement, right,
both in product and process.
There's always a better way to make it,
and there's always a better way to design it,
and there's always a better way to sell it, right?
So, we're constantly dissatisfied,
we're constantly looking at our competition,
we have energy around that creative dissatisfaction.
Once we get to the top, we begin to enter this period
of a condition of ease.
Arnold Toynbee said this is a sure sign of the decline
of a civilization.
It's challenge, challenge,
and response to challenge that produces growth
and development.
Never a condition of ease.
That condition of ease results in decay,
and that's what you get in the administrative age,
and increasingly as you go into bureaucracy more,
and more fear becomes a factor, control becomes a factor,
making sure you stay within boundaries,
making sure you do exactly what you're told to do.
That's all a sign of bureaucracy and it leads in the end
to actual loss of business
because you're not being creative,
and people begin to then have increasing levels of fear,
and panic and then you should run run for the hills get out.
Anyway, I hope that makes sense you can think
about where your company is.
It's not, you know, the immediate situational motivation
that you can do a lot about,
but I do think it's a worthwhile insight into motivation
in your organization.
I hope that helps, thanks.
(bright music)
(music continues)

--- Situational Motivation ---

(gentle music)
-: Hi again, friends.
Let's go to the bottom of that pyramid
and let's talk about situational motivation.
And these are the influences on human behavior or motivation
that you are most likely to be able to affect or manipulate
or change because they're in your environment
and you have a pretty good degree of control
over your environment and the things
that impact the behavior of your employees.
So it's a good model to study and analyze human behavior.
In fact, it's called behavior analysis,
is the field of psychology that this is drawn from.
And it's about behavior.
Remember our discussion about pinpointed behavior
when we talked about developing skills.
That you don't focus on attitudes or character traits,
you focus on observable behavior.
And behavior analysis is based on that idea also.
And it's the basis of all training
whether your training, you know, a child to engage in,
you know, to clean their room, if you will.
Or if you're training a dog to sit and roll over,
whatever, or a horse, or if you're training human beings
in really any environment.
Anytime you wanna change their behavior,
affect their behavior,
it's desirable to focus on pinpointed behavior.
Now, this simple diagram
says they're antecedents and consequences.
It's the ABC model, antecedent, behavior, consequence.
Very easy to to remember.
And what, you know, what's an antecedent?
An antecedent is something that comes before the behavior
that impacts the behavior.
A consequence is something that comes after the behavior
that serves to reinforce, strengthen the behavior
or it may be a punishment that reduces the behavior
or maybe a neutral consequence,
which really means no consequence
and that turns to extinguish,
tends to extinguish the behavior,
reduce the frequency of the behavior.
Now let's just talk about antecedents for the moment.
What is an antecedent?
The easiest way to think about antecedent,
and they're in our environment all the time,
the clock on the wall is an antecedent
to go to lunch or stop work or begin work.
The traffic light, red light, green light, yellow light,
those are antecedents.
They're, you can think of them as prompts or cues.
That all means the same thing.
But they're something we see, a stimuli,
in our environment that then cues us,
triggers, you can call them triggers if you want also,
that triggers a behavior, right?
Hopefully when you see a red light,
you have learned, you've been taught to respond to that
by taking your foot off the gas
and putting it on the brake.
That triggers that behavior or prompts that behavior.
Either, any of that language is good.
Now, what makes an antecedent work?
Well, why do we stop at a red light?
Well, the reason we stop at a red light
is that we have learned.
And all this is called learning theory, right?
If you want a theory for it, it's simply learning theory.
It's how human beings, in fact all living organisms,
at least all animals or species, how we learn.
We learn from antecedents
and we learn that they're important
because there's a consequence, right?
So like, if you don't stop at a red light,
there are consequences to that behavior.
You may have an accident, which is a severe consequence.
Or you may get a ticket, the police may stop you.
Or now around where I live,
there are these cameras all the time that are, you know,
flash when you, if you speed or you go through a red light
and you get a ticket in the mail.
So there are consequences to behavior.
Now, once you understand this very simple model
it gives you a good clue as to what you can do
to encourage somebody's behavior
or change somebody's behavior.
Let me just give you a couple stories that illustrate.
Very early in my career,
myself and consultants I was working with,
we were working in textile mills.
Milliken and Company, JP Stevens, Cannon Mills, you know,
all the southern textile mills.
And I remember being in a textile mill once
and they had had a absenteeism problem.
And we had worked on that,
we'd worked on reinforcing the behavior
of showing up on time and attending on a regular basis,
being in attendance.
And it had improved attendance,
and now they started to turn their attention
to other behavior.
And there was Mary, and this graph is Mary's graph.
Mary was a mature woman.
I don't remember her age, but maybe she was 50 or 45,
somewhere in that range.
And Mary was always there. She was very reliable.
Everybody knew her well, everybody liked her.
But she was slow.
And there was something called
standard operating efficiency,
and Mary had been operating for years
around 35% standard operating efficiency.
And it had been okay 'cause Mary was reliable.
She was always there,
but she was reliably at 35% standard operating efficiency.
And I sat in a meeting with the plant manager and his team
and I said, "You know, we're gonna have to let Mary go
because we just can't afford, you know,
to pay somebody to work at that pace."
And I said, "You know, be before you do that,
you know, does Mary know?"
It's always a good question, you know, "Does Mary know?"
And they say, "Oh yeah, sure, she knows."
I say, "Yeah, but does she know that it matters?
You know, she may know that she's, you know,
the way she operates, but does she really know
that there are any consequences to that behavior?
'Cause what you're talking about doing now
is changing the consequences to her behavior.
You know, that 35% efficiency, that worked for her.
I mean, she had a job, she got paid every week.
You were reinforcing that behavior.
So if you're gonna change the consequences,
maybe Mary oughta know that.
Maybe you oughta give her some feedback.
So why don't you?"
And we talked a lot about feedback.
So we said, "Let's just make a graph
and let's show Mary how she's performing
and ask her what she can do."
Now this was new behavior for the supervisor
'cause this was back, you know, in the 1970s.
And the supervisors were used to yelling at people
and telling people and being tough with people
and you know, all that.
So the idea of showing Mary data, showing her a graph
and then asking her what she can do,
that was sort of a new concept.
I know it sounds silly, but it really was.
So we made a graph that had Mary's 35%,
and then a line that said
now something's gonna change, right?
And we had the supervisor go to Mary
and show Mary the graph and say,
"You know, Mary, you know, other people are operating
at a higher rate than this.
What do you think you can do?"
And Mary, you know, when you ask somebody what they can do,
there's a law and it's like if you're a golfer
and on average, you know, going around this golf course,
18 holes, it takes you 110 shots, let's just say.
And now you ask the person, you know, on Saturday morning,
they're about to tee off, ask them what they can do.
Do they say more or less? They set a goal, right?
And it's just human nature. We set a goal to improve.
We don't set a goal to do worse.
We always set a goal to improve.
So you ask Mary what she can do and what does she say?
She says, "I can probably do 45%."
And we had to teach the supervisor to do this.
We said, "Don't ask her for 100%.
Let her take a baby step. Let her take, go to 45%."
So he said, "Good, let's see what happens."
Well, a week later, guess what? She's working at 45%.
And the supervisor says, "Great," you know,
"Congratulations Mary. You really, you know, improved.
What do you think you can do next week?"
What do you think she says? Does she say 35%?
No, of course not. She says 55%, right? She moves up.
Well, to make a long story short, in like two months,
Mary had gotten to 125% standard operating efficiency
and maintain that level.
She was able, she was capable of performing,
but it had never mattered.
There was no consequence,
there was no reinforcement for doing better.
There was no antecedent.
Let's think about that whole ABC model.
When you show her the graph and you say,
"You know, here's how you're performing."
That's an antecedent, right?
And you say, "By the way, other people are performing better
than that just so you know."
That's an antecedent. Setting a goal is an antecedent.
It all comes before the behavior, right?
Now after the behavior, what's the consequence?
And it's not like a big prize, it's not money,
it's just the feedback and the recognition.
You know, the manager saying, "Great job, Mary."
That is a consequence to behavior, and she improved.
Now if you understand this model,
let me just give you one more example
and then we'll, in the next lecture,
we'll go into a little more detail.
But just one more example to convince you
that this can help you.
It can help you gain control over your own behavior
and self-manage.
Back, many years ago, I decided to write a book.
It was my first book. I've written a bunch since then.
You can Google me on or go to Amazon, you'll see.
But I decided to write this first book
and I knew that the behavior of writing is hard.
You know, I had to do it on my own time,
not the company time.
And it's a struggle, you know,
and this was back in the days
of the IBM Selectric Typewriter,
That's what I wrote on, with carbon paper and White Out.
Remember that White Out bottle?
You may not remember 'cause it's before your time.
But it's a lot easier now with Word, you know,
and other word processing software.
But I just made a, set a goal of a 400-page book.
I made a graph, the graph was about this big,
put it on my wall, from zero to 400.
And I just arbitrarily said,
"I'll give myself 18 months to do it."
So 18 lines, boom, boom, boom, you know, across.
400, you know, on the left-hand vertical column,
400 goal, and drew a straight line.
So if I worked sort of very consistently,
I'd sort of go right along that line, right?
It was a cumulative graph, so it never actually went down,
but it would be flat if I didn't perform, okay?
So I start writing and I'm going along
and I have it on the wall.
And, you know, other people see it and they, you know,
people would ask about it and I tell them,
and they say, "Oh, that's great.
That's interesting, you know."
Got a little social reinforcement,
positive reinforcement from just setting the goal
and starting on the journey of writing the book.
But then there was a time,
maybe six months into the 18 months,
where I probably went two months without writing.
Don't ask me why. I don't remember, but it happens.
So the line was flat.
And I remember one day,
one of the other consultants came into my office,
and everybody in the company knew what I was doing.
But he came into the office
and he went right up to the graph and he looked at it.
Turned and walked out.
Didn't say anything, but he actually did.
It was sort of like very punishing, right?
It was like, "What the hell's wrong with you?
You know, you're not doing nothing.
You know, the line is there."
He just walked out.
Well, the next weekend, I was in there.
I was determined to make progress.
So in that case of my writing behavior
and measuring, visually displaying my success or failure
in that behavior and having other people respond to it
and give me feedback,
all of that was about managing myself.
It was a self-management device.
And writers are interesting in this regard
because writers struggle with their own behavior.
Hemingway, just for example,
there's a wonderful book by Ernest Hemingway
called "On Writing"
and it's his advice to other writers, basically.
And he talked, writers often talk
about their own self-management
because it's such a struggle.
And he lived in, you know, Key West, Florida,
and he would go deep sea fishing.
But he set up his own self-management program
where he had to write 276,
don't ask me why that number,
but 276 words that he found acceptable in the morning
and then he would allow himself to go fishing.
But the going fishing was the reward.
He set the goal, which was an antecedent, right?
And then he had the pinpointed behavior of writing
and recording the number of words that he wrote.
Not pages, just words.
And that was his management device.
And that's how he got things written.
Well, the same model, the same ABC model, you know,
it works with your children,
it works with your training your dog,
and it works with yourself, and it works with me,
and I'm sure it works with you if you use it,
and it works with your employees.
So what our job is as managers, remember,
our job is to maximize all the forms of motivation available
to us.
So we wanna think about what are the antecedents
in the environment
and what are the consequences that we can employ
to maximize the motivation of our people?
Let's come back in the next lecture
and talk about some more specifics of that.
Thanks.
(gentle music)

--- Stimulus Control - The Power of the Environment ---

(energetic music)
-: Hi folks.
Let's drill down a little bit more on the ABC model,
the situational motivation.
Now,
on the antecedent side of things,
let's think about why they work or why they don't work.
And I,
and I want you to look around your environment
and I want you to think about,
you know what behavior you are hoping to elicit
on your employees
and what are the prompts,
what are the antecedents?
Is there a visual display,
like my writing behavior?
Is there a visual display
of performance that will be a cue for your employees
in a Toyota factory or in any lean manufacturing facility?
Every team will,
and we're gonna talk more
about this when we talk about developing your team
but every team has visual display
and it's a, it's a,
it's a board,
a visual board in their work area that has their,
let's say four key performance measures might only be two
but it might be four key performance measures.
It has other prompts.
For example,
it might have some change in standard work.
It might have a,
a new goal it might have some new reminder to,
you know lubricate the equipment or,
you know do something.
But it's the,
the leader of the team is saying you know,
what,
what behavior do we need from the team now?
And is there a prompt for that?
Is there a cue for that in the environment?
And it,
it's why at each workstation there may be a list
of standard work,
you know to accomplish the tasks at that workstation.
There may be a standard worksheet
which is sort of a diagram with arrows on it.
It's the process at that,
the mini micro process at that workstation that illustrates
and it may even have a diagrams or photographs,
you know illustrating exactly how a task is to be done.
Well,
all that's an antecedent to the behavior
you know,
it implies that,
you know, we,
the manager or the team may have developed it themself.
We know how to do this,
right?
We don't have to reinvent it every time,
we know how to do it.
So here's a visual display that,
that illustrates that all of that is an antecedent.
Now,
if antecedents aren't working,
you know for example,
and you know a good example of this is to go back
to traffic.
In United States in many areas
there's a 55 mile an hour speed limit.
If you go onto a highway,
I live near Washington DC If you go to the beltway
around Washington DC and the posted speed limit,
it's actually 65,
I believe is the posted speed limit
on the beltway around Washington.
Do you think the cars are all going at 65 or below?
No, no, no,
they're going 75.
Okay, they're going 75,
not 65.
What's that about?
They're not going 85.
Now, you might occasionally have a nut going 85,
but generally they're going 75,
right?
That's sort of the speed of traffic.
Why is this the posted speed,
the prompt,
the antecedent says 65,
but they're going 75.
Why is that?
At what point do consequences kick in?
When do you get a ticket?
Do you get a ticket for going 65 or 66 or 67 or even 70?
You,
the bet is,
no you don't.
The bet is you'll actually get a ticket
if you're at 75 or above.
That's the,
the bet that all these people on the road have made,
right?
It's a mass bet,
and they're probably right.
So the consequences condition our response
to the antecedent.
So we have to teach people to respond to the antecedent.
So think about the antecedents in your environment,
the cues,
the signs,
the standard work,
the diagrams,
the graphs on the wall
and ask yourself whether they're working,
whether people are actually attending
and responding to them.
And if they're not,
why not?
And what can we do to,
to cause them?
This is called stimulus control.
Does the stimulus have control over behavior?
Well, it has control over behavior.
If we have learned
if we have learned that there's a consequence to,
to the behavior.
(energetic music)

--- Keys to Effectiveness ---

(light music)
-: I wanna talk about definitions for a minute.
And this may seem boring,
but it's actually very significant.
In the behavior analysis or behavior modification,
behavioral psychology literature,
there are very precise definitions
for positive reinforcement, for example.
You know what positive reinforcement means?
Now, when we think about it, it's positive, right?
It's desirable.
It's good.
Yes.
But the term reinforcement is defined
as a stimulus, right,
a consequence, consequence is a stimulus,
that has the effect of increasing the strength or rate
of the behavior.
In other words, it's an empirical definition.
If behavior does not increase in strength or rate,
there, in fact, is not positive reinforcement.
You can say you praised somebody,
but some people find praise aversive.
They don't like it.
And it doesn't increase their rate of behavior.
So it is therefore not really positive reinforcement.
We have to become scientists.
We have to study the effect of our actions
and the effect of consequences on behavior.
So think about when you praise somebody
or you have some incentive in the workplace,
does it actually work by the data?
Does the data say yes, people are responding to that?
Positive means presentation.
You present something.
Negative reinforcement still increases the rate of behavior.
It's reinforcement, but the modifier
of negative means removing something
that then increases the rate of behavior.
I know it seems strange,
but getting out of the rain and stopping the rain
is negative reinforcement.
It reinforces the behavior of moving
from place A to place B.
And the reinforcer is the termination of the rain
on your body.
So that's actually negative reinforcement.
Punishment, and you think punishment, that's mean,
it's being bad, it's yelling, it's, you know?
No, punishment is a consequence that results
in a reduction in the rate of behavior, right?
Now, sadly, and parents are often terrible at this,
they yell, scream, even spank a child
when the child is really begging for attention.
They need attention.
And even yelling at them
may reinforce the very behavior they're engaged in
'cause they've learned that's a way
to get daddy's attention.
And you may think, "Well, I'm punishing them."
Well, not if it doesn't reduce the rate of that behavior.
And by the way, I am a parent, of course.
My children are all grown.
I have eight grandchildren.
But an important lesson is
that anytime there is a behavior that you wanna reduce,
you know, a child doing something wrong,
it's very important to substitute some other behavior.
If they're gonna stop doing it,
they're gonna do something else, right?
So the question is: What else?
So if you don't want them doing that,
what is the other behavior that you're reinforcing?
Are you reinforcing reading a book, right?
I mean, what's the consequence for reading a book
if you don't want them to watch so much television?
You can say, "Turn off the television,"
but then they sit there and go, "Oh, what do I do now?"
Well, you gotta tell 'em what to do now.
You gotta give 'em something positive to do,
and you need to praise them.
You need to ask them about what they're reading.
You need to talk to them about it.
You need to tell 'em, "That's so interesting."
You know, "I'm really glad that you're reading that."
And maybe even some reward for every book that you read.
I mean, something positive needs to happen
that will then replace that negative behavior
or the behavior you wanna reduce, whatever that is.
It's an important lesson.
Extinction means removing reinforcement
and the behavior will go down,
although very often, the behavior goes up initially
because the reinforcement has maintained that behavior.
And the person initially thinks,
"Well, wait a a minute, it always worked, so I try harder."
You know, this is the example of the child
who you put to bed and screams,
and mommy comes back in and holds them.
Mommy's actually reinforcing the behavior of screaming
when you put them in bed.
Well, if you now you don't go into the room,
they're gonna say, "Hey, what's wrong with mommy?
Mommy always come in when I scream."
So they're gonna scream louder, right?
Well, there's called an extinction curve
were initially it goes up and then it goes down.
They give up, basically, right?
So the behavior will be extinguished,
although it goes through that initial jump in behavior.
Those definitions, you know, really do matter.
So there's one other concept that I'll share with you.
It's called the balance of consequences.
And it's an important understanding,
because you know, we may think that,
you know, well, for most of our behavior,
there are choices, right?
I can stay late and get the job done,
or I can go home and be on time for dinner, for example.
That's a choice.
Now, it's not like everything is positive on one side
and everything is negative on the other.
No, there's a balance of consequences.
In fact, there's a positive consequence
to staying at work and getting the job done.
Hopefully, my boss will think that's great and praise me.
Or I'll look good or whatever the consequence is.
But on the other hand,
there's a positive consequence for getting home.
You know, my spouse will be more happy with me.
My children will be happier with me.
And that's a positive consequence for the other behavior.
So there's this sorta teeter-totter, you know,
where for most of our decisions and most of our behavior,
there are positive and negative consequences on both sides.
Now, you know how a teeter-totter is, right?
Does everything have to shift to one side
to change the behavior?
No, it doesn't.
A slight shift.
If you have 50 pounds on this side
and 50 pounds on this side,
and it's right even, well, a shift of one pound
changes the whole thing, doesn't it?
So when we think about reinforcing behavior,
we don't have to make everything positive,
you know, on one side.
We have to realize that even a slight shift,
a slight change in the consequences
can dramatically change the performance.
One other concept I wanna share,
and this is an important one.
Four to one.
I was reading Jeff Liker's book on Toyota culture.
And on page 400 and something,
forget what, he talks about Toyota practicing four to one.
Four positives to one negative.
Now, my bet is that hardly anybody at Toyota, if anybody,
knows where this comes from, but I do.
And it comes from back in the 1970s
when I was at Behavioral Systems in Atlanta, Georgia,
and I still have a little paperweight
that says four to one on it.
There was some research done by a psychologist
named Ogden Lindsley in classrooms.
And Ogden Lindsley was trying to find
the optimum rate of positive to negative comments
by teachers to students
that optimized the performance of students.
Don't ask me for the details of how he did this.
But what his research said in the conclusion
was that the optimum ratio of positive to negative,
it's worth thinking about this in terms
of how you interact with your spouse
or how you interact with your children
or with your employees,
but he found that the optimum ratio
of positive to negative comments was 3.57 to one.
This is a bit of trivia you can really impress
your friends (laughing) with.
3.57 to one was the optimum ratio
that maximized the performance of children.
Now, does this generalized to adults?
I have no idea.
But we took that and we averaged it to four.
So we made it instead of 3.57 (laughing),
we made it four to one.
And this became sort of a game,
that it was a rule where we actually had managers
having four to one cards in their pocket,
where every time they interacted with an employee,
they'd mark down that it was either positive or negative.
You could try this yourself.
And it's sort of interesting just to see:
Are you more negative or positive?
When you approach an employee in the work setting,
are they more likely to think
that you're gonna have something positive to say
or something negative to say to them?
Are you more likely to criticize them?
Are you more likely to find fault with them?
Or are you more likely to recognize the good things
that they're doing?
Well, optimum performance comes
from 3.57 (laughing) to one or four to one.
But weighted on that side of the scale
in terms of positive to negative comments to employees.
So you know, this has gone all the way,
you know, I didn't see this thing at Toyota until recently.
But over a 40-year period,
this thing has migrated, this four to one principle,
from when we started using it in textile mills
back in the 1970s.
And it's a valid idea.
And it's just, you know, a game you can play
to check yourself about whether you're behaving in a way
that optimizes the motivation of your people.
Let's come back and I'd like to talk about intrinsic
and extrinsic motivation.
It's a major subject of some contention
within the psychology community.
I'll come back and talk about it.
(light music)

--- Keys to Intrinsic Motivation ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi folks.
There's another concept regarding positive reinforcement
or motivation that I'd like to share with you.
And it may seem a little academic at first,
but I don't wanna be academic.
I wanna make it very practical for you
but it is worth understanding
and it's the concept of intrinsic and extrinsic motivation.
Now, just, you know, as background,
there are various ways of defining motivation.
One is intrinsic meaning
from the work itself or the activity itself.
Like for some playing a musical instrument
they don't need to be rewarded by anybody.
There doesn't need to be some outside positive
reinforcement to sustain that behavior
because they enjoy it intrinsically, at least.
I enjoy playing the guitar.
I don't ever perform, you know,
in front of other people unless I have to.
I certainly don't strive for that.
I like the activity itself and I like learning a new tune.
And just enjoy it intrinsically.
It would be great if all work
were so intrinsically reinforcing.
There was no need for any extrinsic reinforcement
like compensation or any of those sorts of things,
but it ain't true.
We need extrinsic reinforcement.
Another way to sort of divide types of reinforcement
is tangible and social or intangible.
Tangible or you know, money is tangible.
You can do something with it.
Any object, you know, a plaque,
an award as a tangible thing.
But for many of those things,
like an award,
there's also a social component that goes along with it.
There's the approval of other people,
that's social.
And then there's immediate
and long-term reinforcement things that happen right away.
And then, you know, we would all like our children
to study every night as you know,
seventh graders.
Because it will help them to get into college
a good college and have a good career.
But when you're in seventh grade,
that long term positive reinforcement of the good school
and the good job doesn't have that much control
over your behavior.
They need more immediate reinforcement.
And then there's reinforcement that's certain
and reinforcement that's uncertain.
Meaning reinforcement that's certain,
means every time I do it,
something positive happens.
In the real world,
that can happen in a laboratory with mice and pigeons.
But in the real world,
there's almost never certain reinforcement
meaning every time I know it's gonna happen
it's usually more random, it's more uncertain.
It's on some sort of a variable schedule.
But let's, for this lecture,
let's focus on the issue of intrinsic
and extrinsic reinforcement.
Now lemme go back to the family farm
and the craft shop for a moment.
You remember my story about that?
Now I just want you to picture yourself
in the job of working for a cabinet maker
making chairs or tables or cabinets, right?
And you know, they used to sign their name.
It was like a piece of artwork.
They would sign their name
to the cabinetry that they made
and they probably made them on order for a customer.
You know, in the old days, in the 1800's or 1700's.
They didn't make hundreds of them
and stack 'em in a warehouse.
They made them on demand.
They made them when somebody wanted one.
So if I were that cabinet maker,
I probably knew my customer and I probably got feedback
from my customer in terms of how they liked it.
And I signed my name to it.
I had pride in it, and I did the whole thing.
You know, I made the whole cabinet with my own hands.
So when I was finished,
I could look back on it and say,
you know, that's mine.
I did it.
Versus now think about yourself in a factory
where you don't make a whole piece of furniture.
The parts come from another factory
and you just assemble them,
and they go into a warehouse,
and you don't know the customer.
Which of those two jobs for,
and forget about money.
Let's just say they pay the exact same amount of money.
They're in the same, you know,
healthy environment.
There's no bad smells or in neither case
as the boss or you know, a terrible person.
But just take the nature of the work itself.
Which one do you think is more rewarding
naturally or intrinsically?
And if you look at what people do in their spare time,
you know, there are people who do carpentry
as a hobby down in their basement.
They have a woodworking shop
and they may make a piece of furniture
and they give it to their wife
or their kids or their parents or somebody.
And they get the same satisfaction
that that cabinet maker in the old time cabinet shop.
God, can you feel the positive reinforcement?
Can you feel the intrinsic satisfaction that comes
from making a beautiful piece of furniture
and knowing who the customer is
and giving it to the customer?
Or just, and forget about money,
you don't even get paid.
I mean, some people just do that as a hobby, right?
They make furniture or some other object
in their basement without anybody paying them.
Just for the satisfaction of it.
When we designed our modern factories,
we left the cabinet maker shop
and we had people who just made legs.
You know, there was a leg department,
a seat department, a back department,
and an assembly department.
You didn't make a whole chair,
you just made legs.
Does anybody as a hobby go home on Saturday
and just make legs in their basement?
You know, if you go home and you just make legs
you need to have this checked out,
'cause something's wrong.
Okay?
If you make a whole chair
and you give the chair to your parents,
your family, your wife,
you get that right?
You get the satisfaction
but you don't get the satisfaction of just making legs.
That's like work, right?
That's work.
But making the chair,
we would do without any money at all.
See the difference?
This is about intrinsic versus extrinsic reinforcement.
Chair making,, whole chair making,
is intrinsically rewarding.
Leg making is not intrinsically rewarding.
Whole work, that's an important concept in creating.
And I want you to look around your workplace
and I want you to look at the jobs and think about them.
Do you have jobs that are intrinsically reinforcing
or have you so fractured them
that there isn't that satisfaction of chair making
versus leg making.
Are your employees just leg makers?
If that's the case, then they are dependent
on extrinsic reinforcement and that's your problem.
But if they are gaining intrinsic reinforcement,
you have less of a problem motivating them.
Does that make sense?
So think about the structure of jobs.
Now, another way to sort of create chair making
versus leg making is when people work
on a team and they have a sense
of the whole team taking responsibility
for making the piece of furniture together.
And they talk about how they make it together,
they evaluate it together.
Maybe they all sign their names to it,
you know, I mean it was interesting
when the first McIntosh computer was done
by Steve Jobs and his team.
They all signed their name to it, didn't they?
So they all sort of were acknowledging
that it was theirs.
They had ownership.
Ownership means intrinsic reinforcement, right?
It means it's an intrinsically satisfying
rather than just the paycheck or just the praise
of the supervisor or something like that.
So try to create that and it's one of the reasons
that we create teams.
Another thing that that makes work intrinsically
satisfying is it being a challenge.
You know, having a goal, you know
when you really think about golf,
and if somebody landed from Mars and they landed
on this field nicely, you know,
grass, nicely cut field.
And they saw these workers walking around
with sticks hitting a ball in a hole,
they say, "Boy that is a boring job."
I mean, that is a really boring job.
They walk around for hours.
I mean, the working conditions aren't so good.
They're hot, they're getting burned by the sun.
Sometimes they do it in the rain.
Why would they?
They must get paid.
They must have a good union.
They must have good benefits.
They must get paid really well.
And then you find out,
no, they don't get paid at all.
Actually, they pay to do that job.
What the heck?
I mean, what kind of species is this that would do that?
I mean, it's not that interesting
but you know why they do it?
When they put the ball down on the tee
on the first green to tee off,
they say something to themselves, don't they?
And what do they say?
Normally it may be the maybe the best time
around this 18 holes.
It took me a hundred shots.
What do I say to myself now
on Saturday morning as I'm about to tee up?
Do I say I wanna do it in 90
or do I say I wanna do it in 120?
What do I do?
I set a goal that's a challenge.
I try to beat my record.
That's a challenge, right?
I mean, and that's what every golfer does.
I mean, there's no doubt about every golfer does that.
But what if I didn't do that?
And what if there was a supervisor,
a manager on the side off the green,
said, "Ah, Larry today I want you to do these 18 holes
in 95 shots not your normal 100.
Look at 'em like, what you want me to shoot a 95?
Is this your game or is it my game?
Who are you?
This is my game.
I'm having fun.
Leave me alone, right?
You don't want somebody telling you
the moment you tell somebody what a target is,
the moment you tell somebody what the goal is,
versus having them, the team,
set a target,
you are eliminating or reducing the intrinsic reinforcement
that comes from a challenge.
But the degree to which they set the target,
set the goal themself,
they accept the challenge
and they work towards that challenge.
The more autonomy and self-control we have.
You've heard of self-directed teams, right?
Well, for the last 40 years
I've helped companies set up self-directed teams.
But let me tell you a secret.
There's no such thing as a self-directed team.
As long as there's a CEO of the company,
a plant manager or regional manager,
or a spouse, you're not self-managed.
You're not self-directed.
There's only degrees of autonomy, right?
So degrees of autonomy are good.
The more autonomous,
the more self-directed a team can be
like setting their own goal
deciding how to improve the process, right?
Taking responsibility for how the work gets done.
That increases intrinsic satisfaction,
intrinsic reinforcement
because then the goal becomes my goal.
The performance becomes, it's my house right?
It's my team.
So I am intrinsically satisfied
in the performance of the team.
Rotating jobs.
Any job that's simple like a factory.
Most factory jobs are relatively simple.
If they're repetitive, they become boring
and the more boring or repetitive something is,
the less intrinsically satisfying it is.
So how do you fix that?
One way to fix that is that you cross train people
not just in one job, but in eight jobs.
All the jobs that are on a team within the scope of a team.
And then they rotate among those jobs
so that they don't get bored with the job.
And the more they understand how all eight jobs on the team
let us just say, how they all get done.
The more I am able to think about how to improve the work
the more I can think about how I can improve the work,
and the more you listen to me,
in terms of my ideas about how to improve the work,
the more satisfying it is.
The more intrinsically reinforcing it is.
Engage all of your people in continuous improvement.
We're gonna talk a lot more
about this as we go through the course,
but the idea of continuous improvement
is not just about, you know
making things faster, making things cheaper.
It's not just about that.
It's about the team having the satisfaction
of owning their work and being able to improve their work.
People love to improve things when they feel ownership
for it.
I hope that makes sense.
And you know, just also by the way
the more competent people are, you know
I really don't like playing tennis.
You know why?
'Cause I stink at it.
I stink at it.
The better somebody is at something,
the more rewarding it becomes.
The more they enjoy it naturally or intrinsically.
So you wanna develop highly competent people
who rotate jobs,
who are able to make improvement in their work as a team.
You want people to feel bonded to that team.
Remember our social reinforcement or social motivation.
You want that motivation.
The more social motivation there is,
the more intrinsically reinforcing the work is.
So think about all those elements of intrinsic reinforcement
and think about how you can maximize them for your team.
I hope that makes sense.
And by the way,
many academicians want to debate the value
of extrinsic versus intrinsic reinforcement.
Forget about that.
It's unimportant.
Your job is to optimize all forms of reinforcement
or all forms of motivation,
both intrinsic and extrinsic.
Then you'll have a high performing team.
Hope that makes sense.
Thanks.
(upbeat music)

--- Exercise 4: Develop a Plan to Improve Situational Motivation ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- The Manager's Role as "Coach" ---

(light guitar music)
-: Hi, friends.
The following section or the section
you've just entered to this course,
may be one of the most important in this course.
Because it's about your ability to communicate
with your employees, your team members,
those who work side by side with you
and with your own manager.
And in fact, the skills that we're going to go through,
the basic communication skills
of listening well to others, expressing empathy, rephrasing,
acknowledging what other people are saying.
The basic communication skills are not only essential
for a manager, they're essential for virtually
anybody in any field.
If you're a salesperson, they're essential.
If you are a software engineer,
you have to convince people to listen to you,
and you won't convince them to listen to you
if you're not good at listening to them.
This is about fundamental human relationships.
If you're a parent, if you're a spouse,
these skills are essential to your success.
So maybe you've already had training
in personal communication skills, listening, and so forth.
Great.
If you haven't had training
in interpersonal communication skills,
I think this will be really, really valuable for you.
One of the essential things you do is to give
and receive feedback from others.
And all the communication skills in this section
lead up to the ability to give
and receive feedback to your employees,
to your team members, and to your partners
in the world of your work.
One of the ways of understanding your job
as a manager is to think of yourself as a coach,
because in fact, you do coach, just like the coach
of an athletic team, you are coaching the members
of your team to do the best they can do.
What is a coach?
A coach is somebody who is dedicated
to and concerned about the other person, the coachee,
if you will, the team member, the employee,
helping them to achieve their potential.
Your relationship with your employees
is not just about you getting them
to help you be successful,
although that's certainly a concern of ours.
We want them to help us be successful.
But if you are dedicated to helping your team members,
your employees, be the absolute best they can be,
and they all have different potential,
they all have different talents.
But if they understand that you are dedicated
to helping them achieve their greatest potential,
they will help you achieve yours.
It comes, it's like throwing something against the wall.
It bounces right back.
So the following lectures are addressing you
as a coach and you have a client,
and the client is the person who you're trying to help.
Now, I have a whole nother course on coaching skills.
And I've borrowed, if you will,
lectures from that course and inserted them here,
because I think they're just as relevant
to your role as a coach, as a manager,
as they are to somebody who's a professional coach
or a full-time coach, et cetera.
So let's get started,
and let's develop optimum communication skills
and coaching skills, thanks.
(light guitar music)

--- Coaching and Self-Awareness - Are You "Stu?" ---

(cheerful music)
-: Hi, friends.
I hope you don't mind that I'm sitting down this time
for this section of the course.
I'd like to do it do it this way,
rather than lecturing, standing up lecturing,
as I have been for the previous sections of the course.
Because when you're coaching,
you're not gonna be standing up lecturing.
You're gonna be sitting across from your client, presumably,
or in a conference room with your client.
But I'd like to be able to model some behavior a little bit,
and I want you to model good communication behavior
to your clients,
because one of the things you'll be giving them feedback on
is their communication skills.
So I wanna, in this section, make you more sensitive
or more aware of some of the things that people do,
the way people phrase things, their body language,
that either adds to their effectiveness as a communicator
or detracts from it.
And this is an area where,
very often, we're simply not self-aware.
And just one quick story to illustrate that.
I had a client in Huntsville, Alabama,
was part of the space program some years ago,
and I had a consultant who worked for me,
who was in the plant,
and he had been there for a couple months,
trying to get the team management process started.
We had teams from top to bottom in the organization,
and it wasn't going well,
and my consultant called me
and very honestly told me it wasn't going well.
And I said, "Why?"
And he said he thought it was the senior team,
that they weren't taking it seriously
and they weren't doing the things that they need to do
to be a model to the rest of the organization.
And I said, "Well, let me come over
and talk to the plant manager,"
who was also a division vice president,
and his name was Stu,
and I asked my consultant, "What was the day
when Stu had his meeting with his plant management team?"
And I think it was a Friday, but it doesn't matter.
So I went over that Friday and I met with Stu.
Of course, I alerted him that I was coming.
I met with him, and I asked him how it was going,
and he said, "Well, to be perfectly honest,
I don't think it's going very well."
And I said, "Why do you think that is?"
He said, "You know, I'm having trouble
getting my own team to participate."
And he said, "You know, I get 'em in the room,
and I'll lay out a problem, and they just sort of sit there.
You know, they don't engage.
They don't help me, you know?"
And I said, "Well, I know you have your meeting
with your team at two o'clock this afternoon.
Do you mind if I sit in and observe?"
And he said, "No, fine, please do."
So I sat in and I observed, and he was right.
His team, they really didn't participate very well.
And what I saw was that Stu would lay out a problem,
and he had, he was at the end of the table, right?
It was one of these rectangular tables,
and we all know the boss
sits at the end of the table, right?
And he was sitting at the end of the table,
and he'd lay out a problem and then he'd go,
"What do you think about that?"
The guy would say something.
"What do you think?"
And he was right, they didn't participate very well.
And after the meeting, I debriefed with Stu,
and I said, "Stu, can you do that?
Can you go like that?
Can you say, you know, what do you think about that?
Or just what do you think about that?
Rather than..."
You know, it's a small thing, but a big thing, right?
If you're on the receiving end of that or that,
it feels a lot different, doesn't it?
And one will cause you to kind of withdraw
and say as little as you can for fear of being in trouble,
and the other will tend to bring you out and engage you
and cause you to think creatively, right?
Now, if you didn't know anything else
and you just saw Stu doing his thing,
you might make a judgment about his personality
or his style of management or his character.
And you might say, "Well, he's an autocratic SOB, you know?
I don't like him, you know?"
But the reality is Stu is a good guy.
Stu is not a bad guy.
He wasn't autocratic.
He just had a behavior.
That's a real pinpointed behavior, isn't it,
going like that versus like that?
And he was not self-aware.
And we all have that mirror we look at ourself in,
and all of our mirrors are distorted.
Your mirror is distorted, my mirror is distorted.
The way we see ourself is not the way other people see us,
not entirely.
It may be, you know, 1% off or 50% off,
but to some degree it's off,
and one of the jobs of the coach
is to make people more self-aware,
is to give them feedback that helps them be aware.
You know, you're not gonna change Stu
from being a bad guy to a good guy,
but you can change him from doing this to doing that, right?
And the bad news is we're all Stu.
You're Stu, I'm Stu, we're all Stu.
Now I know you don't do that.
You do something else.
You're creative, right?
I mean, you got your own thing.
But we all do things that detract from our leadership
and detract from our communication patterns,
and this is what a coach does.
You know, a coach coach gives feedback.
So the purpose of this whole section of the course
is to make you more aware of some of those things,
both so you can think about them
in terms of your own behavior,
but also so you can think about them
in terms of the kind of feedback
that you're gonna give to your clients.
I hope that makes sense.
Let's get started
with thinking about body language some more.
Thanks.
(cheerful music)

--- Body Language - Attending ---

(gentle music)
-: Oh, hi.
Come on in.
Have a seat.
Be right with you.
Ah.
So,
you wanna chat?
Let's chat.
(hands clap)
I've got, you know, I've got time.
How are you doing today?
Time out. (laughs)
Okay.
Body language.
If that wasn't the worst,
it was an attempt at the worst body language.
Now, look, it is a fact that we react to visual stimuli.
We don't just react to auditory, verbal stimuli.
We react to what we see on the part of people,
whether it's a public speaker and their posture
and their mannerisms, but also in one-to-one interactions.
We react to the posture and the
body behavior, if you will,
the physical behavior of the person to whom we're speaking.
And what I'd like you to get out of this session
is simply to develop more sensitivity,
to be aware.
And the best way to do that
is to become a good observer of other people.
So, you know, what I hope is that the next time
you're in a meeting, the next time you're sitting,
talking one-to-one with somebody, think.
Think about their posture, think about their behavior,
think about how they're using their head, their eyes,
and what impact is it having on you?
What are you feeling as a result?
And I honestly believe there's something
you could call primitive about this,
something that is, you know, is a field of sociobiology
or evolutionary psychology that says
behavioral characteristics,
not just physical characteristics,
but behavioral characteristics that led to our survival
became part of our genetic code.
Whether that's true or not, it doesn't matter,
but it's a worthwhile thought.
You know, the idea of shaking hands,
the idea, remember my stew example, the idea of this,
an open palm, versus this, right?
The pointing.
One's more intimidating and one's more friendly.
One was more inviting, right?
And that's true, you know, across cultures,
and it doesn't matter what the verbal language is.
But a slow, deliberate pattern of speech
rather than a rapid fire, bum, bum, bum pattern of speech
is perceived to be more friendly, more inviting,
where the rapid fire bum, bum, bum
is perceived to be more intimidating,
less inviting.
And obviously one causes the listener to open up, right?
The warmer, more comforting, more friendly pattern of speech
invites one into the conversation,
where the rapid fire bum, bum, bum creates defensiveness
and causes the person to be more likely to withdraw.
Well, that's just one example of sort of the stimuli
that we respond to.
And as a coach, you want to do everything you can
to invite your client into the conversation,
to make your your client comfortable,
to not put your client off,
to not allow them to feel intimidated
and discouraged rather than encouraged, right?
So, we want to think about the body language that,
you know, in the field of counseling and psychology,
it's often called attending.
You know, and think about the word attending.
I'm attending to you
like an attendant, right?
Or paying attention, right?
And
am I more attending this way,
or am I more attending this way?
And there's a lot of research on this, by the way.
It's not, Larry Miller's not just making this up,
but sitting, you know, if you're facing,
if your body is away from the person, it's one thing.
If your body is sort of square to the person,
you're more attentive
and you're more attending to the person.
If you're leaning forward, you're more attending.
It's like you're really,
"I want to hear what you have to say."
You know, if you're back like that,
"I'm not sure I really wanna know what you have to say.
"I'm not sure I care what you have to say."
But clearly if I'm leaning forward,
and also, you know head nodding matters.
You know, believe it or not,
again, watch when you are talking to somebody
and think about it.
And I've noticed this myself.
You know, I'll be in a meeting room
and there'll be you know, eight people
who are just sitting sort of stiffly,
and there'll be two people over there who are going,
you know, nodding, so in agreement, right?
And I'll catch myself in this,
but I'll sort of naturally gravitate to them.
I'll begin talking to them
rather than talking to the other people.
Now, being aware of that, I sort of catch myself
and I go back and talk to the other people.
But naturally we respond to people who,
when somebody's nodding their head,
what they're saying is, "I hear you.
"I get it. I agree with that.
"That makes sense to me."
You know, that's the meaning of nodding your head,
you know, this way.
Obviously not this way.
So we react to that.
So, and you know, smiling is,
we react to smiles.
You know, I've noticed when I'm giving talks in particular,
you wanna make yourself happy.
So there may be 99 frowny faces in the audience
and two people who are smiling.
Who are you gonna look at?
Well, to motivate yourself and keep yourself going,
you look at the two people who are smiling at you.
You respond to them.
You're drawn to them, right?
We're drawn to people who nod their head this way.
We're drawn to people who lean forward
and have their hands in a comforting way.
We're drawn to people who smile.
All those physical actions draw us in,
and your job as a coach is to draw your client in.
So, the lesson is just to become more attentive yourself
to body language and thinking about the body language
that people use and how you react,
how you respond to that body language,
and then incorporate that into your own coaching sessions
so that you are making it
as easy as possible for your client
to be open and honest with you,
but then also to receive any advice you may have for them.
The more threatening you are,
the less they're gonna listen to you
and the less likely they are to share with you,
quite naturally.
So, I hope that makes sense.
It's an important part of effective communication skills,
is body language.
Thanks.
(uplifting music)

--- Asking Open-Ended Questions ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi again, friends.
There's no more important coaching
and communication skill than your listening skills.
And there's passive listening and active listening.
In passive listening, you're basically,
you're putting the burden on the client
and you're basically saying, well,
they'll tell me whatever they wanna tell me.
Boom. You know, it's like their problem.
And I'll just sit here, you know,
you have nothing to say, okay, boom.
Well, obviously that's not healthy.
What's healthy is active listening.
And you maybe have already been trained in this
or be familiar with this, and that's fine.
But the most important part
of active listening is asking questions, right?
And the questions we ask people lead them in a direction.
No matter what it, if I ask you,
"How was your weekend?"
that leads you in a direction, right?
Whether you think it's good or bad,
maybe good at a point, right?
But you're basically saying,
"Let's talk about out of work things," right?
Let's talk about family, let's talk about sports.
You know, whatever.
So that question of, you know,
"How is your weekend" leads someplace, right?
As does every other question.
Now, in asking questions,
there are questions that are less significant,
and then they're what I'll call powerful questions.
And a powerful question is a question
that leads us towards an action,
that moves us towards the target, that creates commitment
to action towards target performance
or behavior that leads us in a direction
of achieving the challenge that the organization is facing.
So think about both asking open-ended questions
and asking powerful questions,
powerful questions that elicit the behavior that will get us
to performance, right?
I mean, we can think of a million questions to ask,
but they don't get us to improving the performance
of the individual or the team,
the behavior or the results, right?
And that's what we want to do.
So we should be thinking, you know,
even before we meet with somebody about, you know,
what are the powerful questions
that I should be asking during this session?
Now, so, you know, what's an open-ended question?
You probably already know this, but, you know,
a closed-ended question is one
that you can answer yes or no.
Did you go swimming this weekend? Nope.
Did you go to a movie this weekend? Nope.
Did you work this weekend? Nope.
Yeah, you see the point, all of those questions are closed
in that all the listener has to do is say no
and that's the end of the conversation.
Well, this is where you can play 20 questions, right?
I mean, to get anything meaningful, you know,
you can go through question after question.
You take a lot of time asking closed-ended questions.
Why not just say, "How was your weekend?"
"What did you do this weekend," right?
That's not a powerful question leading where we want to go,
but you, still, just the straight, the idea
of asking an open-ended question, and open-ended questions
lets the other person go where they want to go.
If you were asking somebody about their interests,
you wanna know what they're interested in.
Well, you know, you could say, you know, "Do you kayak?"
"Are you into photography?"
"Do you like dancing?"
You know, on and on and on, right?
Rather, you could ask 'what.'
You could simply say,
"I'd love to hear about your interests."
"What are the things you most enjoy doing?"
You can't say no to that, can you?
You've gotta offer something.
The listener, the other person can then go
where you might never think to go, right?
You know, they might say, you know,
"I enjoy going to auto races," you know.
"That's my favorite thing."
Well, you know, you might go through a hundred questions
before getting that.
So open-ended questions are simply efficient,
and they reveal what's on the mind
of the other person rather than what's on your mind.
A closed-ended question really, you know,
goes where your mind is going,
not where their mind is going.
Now, there is a time to ask a closed-ended question,
and that is where you know where you want them to go.
You know, like, you know, you could say,
"Has performance improved this week?"
Well, yes, that is a closed-ended question.
They could say no or yes, but it is powerful nonetheless.
And that is going where you want to go in terms
of focusing on performance.
But you might be better to ask 'what' instead
of just "Has performance improved?"
You might say,
"Tell me about performance this week.
What's happening?"
That's an open-ended question.
Sometimes you can say,
"Tell me," you know, or, "Can you talk about it?"
or something.
And it doesn't sound like a question initially,
but it really is a question.
You're asking them to elaborate on something.
So we have powerful and not powerful questions.
We have open-ended and closed-ended questions,
and we wanna be thinking about the open-ended questions
that are the more powerful questions.
You know, a powerful question is,
"When performance improved,
what were team members doing differently?"
You know, so that's an open-ended question.
You know, "What were they doing differently?"
If you said, "Were they doing anything differently?"
that would be a closed-ended question.
They could say yes or no, right?
But by saying, "When performance went up,
what were they doing differently?"
they're gonna have to think about that.
They're gonna have to give you something substantive.
And that question may lead them to take action.
It may lead them to say, well, you know what?
I don't know what they did differently.
I should ask them.
Good point.
That's what a powerful question can do.
It can lead you to inquiring, going to the Gemba, right?
Going to where the work is done
and inquiring about the right things
about what is really, really paying off in the organization.
"What could you do
to elicit that same behavior today or tomorrow?"
So again, that's a open-ended question,
but it's powerful in that you're asking the client
about what could they do to get that performance.
What could they do to get that behavior,
which then leads them to think about,
yeah, you know, I should do that.
Maybe I'll do that tomorrow, you know, or whatever.
But it's leading towards action, right?
Another one is, you know, what is the greatest obstacle
to team member motivation that you can impact?
So what is the greatest obstacle to their motivation,
you know, that you can impact, you know,
now, if you don't put that you can impact,
that could easily go off onto other things
about motivation that are out of their control.
But once you say what they can impact,
that's a powerful question because you're leading them
towards action that they could take, right?
Rather than other things they could, you know,
people love to talk
about things that are out of their control,
rather things that are in their control, right?
You know, that's what I, from my prison work,
my inmates loved to talk about the other guys, you know,
none of them belong there
because the other guys got them in trouble.
Well, we all have that, you know,
tendency towards externality, placing responsibility
for events in our life outside of us, not to somebody else.
Well, that's not productive.
That doesn't lead us to action.
So we wanna bring them internally, we wanna bring them
to what can they do to impact motivation.
And that can be a very fruitful discussion.
When do you use open-ended question?
Always good to start a conversation, right?
It gets a conversation going
because the other person needs to talk.
When you wanna learn about the interests
or the feelings of someone, when, you know,
the feelings of your client are very important to you.
'Cause people act on their feelings more than they act
on their thoughts, right?
We very often don't act on our knowledge or thoughts,
but we almost always
or very often act on how we feel about things.
So it's very worthwhile for you
to ask how they're feeling about performance,
how they're feeling about this part
of their team's behavior or whatever.
So asking about feelings, you know,
how are you feeling about, right,
is a way to phrase an open-ended question.
And here's some, you know, typical ways
that open-ended questions start.
"How can I help you?"
Or, "How can we help you?"
"What seems to be the problem?"
That's a open-ended question.
"What happened last night?"
Or, "What happened yesterday?"
"What happened last week?"
"You seem to be upset," you know.
"Why are you feeling the way you're feeling?"
"Why are you feeling upset?"
"Where were you when you first felt this way?"
Or, when did you first, you know, feel this way?
Those are all open-ended ended questions.
So think about for your next coaching session,
or your first coaching session,
think about framing open-ended questions,
and think about powerful open-ended questions
that will lead us in the direction
of our targets and challenges.
Make sense?
Thanks.
(upbeat music)

--- Reflecting or Rephrasing ---

(light music)
-: Hi again, friends.
Let's talk about reflective listening or rephrasing.
Same thing, just different terms that are used
to describe this process.
Now, when we listen to someone,
we may have asked them an open-ended question.
And they have answered in response to that.
We have heard with our ears.
We have heard the sounds
coming out of the other person.
But have we understood what they really mean?
Have we understood what their ideas,
what their real feeling is,
what their judgment about that is?
Have we really understood?
And a way to clarify that
and to be sure that we are listening
to the meaning, not just the words,
but listening to the meaning
of what the other person has said,
it is useful to reflect that back.
And reflective listening,
if you just think about it physically,
you know, it's holding up a mirror to the other person,
saying, "Here's what I heard you say."
You know, "I heard you say that you find it difficult
to come to work
because you're so bothered by so and so.
Is that what I'm hearing?"
And they go, "Well, no, that's actually,
that's not what I meant.
I meant," good, good.
You know, when you rephrase or reflect back the meaning
of what you think the other person said,
to be wrong about that is a win, right?
I mean, winning in that reflecting game
is not about being right.
It's about learning more.
It's about understanding, gaining understanding.
So if you reflect back and the other person says,
"Well, that's not really what I meant.
What I meant was," great.
'Cause two things have happened when that happens.
First of all, the other person knows
you're really listening to them.
You're really trying to understand,
even if you've misunderstood.
You're really trying (laughing) to understand.
And you're giving them the opportunity to clarify
what you said.
And often, when you reflect back,
you know, people very often struggle
to say what they mean.
They struggle to talk about their feelings.
And when you reflect back,
you're actually giving them time and space
to think about their own thoughts,
to think about what they said,
and to clarify, elaborate on,
explain more deeply, you know, fill in the blanks, right,
after you've reflected it back.
So there's the psychology of them feeling
like you really are listening, right?
You're attending to them
when you reflect back what they've said.
But there's also the substance, if you will,
of clarifying what they actually said.
So I'd like you to practice rephrasing
what the other person has said or reflective listening
and see how it works for you.
You can try it on your spouse tonight, you know? (laughing)
Experiment with these things.
And by the way,
you know, I wouldn't try everything on my spouse.
But I don't think in the history of humanity,
any spouse has ever objected
to you trying to understand them, right? (laughing)
You trying to listen better to them.
That's what every spouse wants, right?
They want to be understood.
They want you to listen to them.
So practicing reflective listening with your spouse,
99% of the time, it's a win, (laughing) not a loss.
They'll appreciate it.
Unless your spouse is very different than mine.
So often, reflective,
these are some phrases that you can kinda think of
to start reflection.
"It sounds like you feel," blank blank blank,
"Committed to taking this course of action."
"I'm hearing two possible directions.
I'm hearing," okay?
Think about that.
"Here's what I think I'm hearing.
I'm hearing you say that there are two possible ways
you could go with this.
One is this and one is that."
Right?
"In other words,"
in other words is a way of saying here's the mirror, right?
"In other words," here comes the reflection.
Here comes the mirror.
"In other words, you don't feel ready
to discuss this with your team.
Is that right?"
And then they'll say, "Yeah, that's right."
And then you could say, "Why?"
By the way, why is always a good open-ended question.
(laughing) Can't say no to why.
You have to fill in the blank somehow.
So okay, those are just some, you know,
sort of easy ways to think about it.
When do you use rephrasing?
To clarify what the client has said
when you're not sure.
"So it sounds as if you feel you're ready
to move on to the next subject."
That's a clarification.
To help the client express their emotions.
And you know, it's not at all common
that you can see emotions.
You can see that the client is emotional.
They're struggling.
And they may not know how to express
or whether they even should express their feelings.
So it's very helpful to them
to reflect what you're seeing, you know,
not just the verbal words that come out of their mouth,
but what you think's going on.
So you can reflect back, you know, and say,
"You know, it sounds like
you're having difficulty with this.
It sounds like you're anxious about that."
And let them have the space to clarify that.
And let them have the space to think
about what their own feelings really are, right?
That's one of the things that happens
when you reflect back.
To get a deeper understanding of the issues
that may have been expressed.
So very often, you know,
there's a deep subject and you've got the top layer, right,
when somebody first speaks about it.
So by reflecting back what you think you've heard them say,
they'll often go to a deeper level.
"So it sounds like this is not merely
about what time and place we meet,
but about what is most important to us
and why are we having these meetings at all.
Is that what I'm hearing you say?"
"Yeah, I'm not sure
we should even be having these meetings."
"Good, let's talk about that.
Why should be having them?"
Make sense?
Okay.
So again, these are just easy ways to start.
You know, "What I'm hearing is,"
"So in other words, you think,"
"So it sounds as if,"
"Let me make sure I've got this right.
You feel this way or that way."
Does that work?
Those are, that's rephrasing.
Give it some practice and, you know,
think about your coaching sessions
and think about whether you are rephrasing.
And think about whether you're missing some meaning.
Because rephrasing is all about getting to meaning,
you know, what the other person really means,
what the other person really feels.
Thank you.
(light music)

--- Expressing Empathy ---

(gentle music)
-: Hi again, friends.
Let's talk about empathy statements.
Now, when we did reflective listening,
we were for the most part reflecting
what we thought the other person said,
the meaning of what they said.
That's sort of a mind thing, right?
Sort of an intellect thing.
When we use empathy statements,
we're sort of reflecting back
what we think the other person is feeling
and why they're feeling it.
And so it's more of a heart.
You know, reflective listening is more of the head.
Empathy statements are more of the heart.
But in both cases, they're saying to your client
that you're hearing them,
that you're understanding both what they're thinking,
what they mean by their statements, and how they're feeling.
And why does it matter?
Why do we need to empathize?
Why do we need to express empathy
for the feelings of our client?
And the issue is very simply, human beings are emotional.
You know, I talked earlier in the course
about addressing the whole person.
Well, and we all differ in this.
Some of us are more head people
and some of us are more heart people, but we all have both.
And sometimes our heart or our emotions overcome our head
and our behavior is very often driven by how we're feeling
rather than some intellectual idea or how we're thinking.
So, and by the way, every marketing person,
every sales person understands that in buying a car,
for example, 75% of the decision or 80% of the decision
is an emotional thing.
It's about how I feel when I drive it,
how I'll feel in this new car,
rather than some intellectual idea about the horsepower,
emissions or something like that.
So, and that kind of governs how we behave.
So, an empathy statement expresses
how you think the other person is feeling
and why you think they are feeling that way.
And that, again, just like the reflective listening,
connects you.
It says, "I'm really listening to you."
We use empathy statements to reduce unhelpful emotions.
And let's just imagine you're coaching a team leader
and the team leader has a difficult team.
Now, whether it's a difficult team
or a difficult team leader, we don't know,
but from the the team leader's standpoint
whom we're coaching, they think their team is uncooperative
and they're not doing things they agreed to
and they're frustrated.
So the client, the team leader,
you know, goes, "Ah, they're driving me crazy.
"They're not doing this, and I'm gonna give up on them."
Maybe they express some anger, frustration, something.
So the coach says, "You sound very frustrated.
"Your team isn't following through
"on things they say they are gonna do,
"and that would be very frustrating, right?"
And they go, "Yeah, that is, right."
Now, it's not a big deal, is it?
But it's just connecting, saying,
"Yeah, I get your feeling.
"You know, you are frustrated. That feeling's legitimate."
That feeling may be about a person.
"You know, it sounds like that person really angers you
"when she does such and such," right?
So empathy statements all have,
the emotion you're hearing, like that reflective listening,
you're reflecting their emotion,
what emotion you think they're feeling,
and they'll acknowledge that.
They'll say, "That's right," you know, and why.
And the why is just as important as the emotion,
because the why then begins to lead to,
"So, what do we do about that?"
You know, "How do we resolve that?
"How do we solve that problem?"
Now, just a caution in using empathy statements,
and here's where performance coaching,
coaching leaders to succeed, what this course is about,
is a little bit different than life coaching.
We know where we want to go when we're coaching managers
in an organization, and where we want to go
is to improve performance and improve their skills.
Remember my mountain climber going up the steps.
And we don't wanna wallow in their emotions, you know?
There's a time we need to recognize their emotions,
but we wanna get past that as quickly as we can
without the person feeling
that we're dismissing their emotions.
Their emotions are legitimate.
We need to take them into account,
but we don't wanna stay there, okay?
We need to move on to, "So what's the action?
"What do we do about that?"
And that's not a bad thing to say, by the way.
So, "I hear you really frustrated because your team
"doesn't follow up on actions they agree to,
"so what could we do about that?
"What are some of the actions we could take
"to assure that they do follow up,
"to increase the probability at least
"that they follow up on action steps?"
And then you can brainstorm that together
or agree on some actions that the team leader can take.
But the important thing
is you want to get the team leader to act, right?
You want to get your client in motion,
moving towards developing a new skill
or improving the performance of his or her team.
So, empathy statements, you know, if you look at these,
these are typical structures of an empathy statement.
"It sounds as if you feel.
"It sounds like you feel.
"However...
"Because the team doesn't follow up
"on their action items, right?
"It sounds like you really feel frustrated
"because they're not following up on their action items.
"It must be frustrating.
"It must be annoying.
"It must be disappointing when
"blank, blank, blank," right?
"I can understand that you're frustrated.
"I can understand that," whatever.
Or, "I can understand that your team's not behaving
"the way you want them to behave.
"That would make you feel disappointed
"or frustrated or angry or whatever."
So those are all empathy statements,
and they're good
for helping the client get over an emotion,
to get past that emotion and get to action.
The danger, if you do not empathize
when your client is emotional,
they may be stuck there.
You know, they may not want to move on.
They may keep hammering at that frustration
because you haven't acknowledged it,
you haven't empathized with them.
So they want empathy.
They'll keep coming at you with their frustration
until you empathize with them.
But when you empathize, it sort of allows them,
it's like, "Okay, you got it.
"Now we can move on."
I hope that makes sense.
Empathy statements.
Another tool in your arsenal.
Thanks.

--- Acknowledging ---

(bright upbeat music)
-: Hi again, folks.
Acknowledging. Now this is so simple that,
you might say, "Why do you even have to talk about this?"
But, it's actually an important thing.
And acknowledging can be very subtle
behavior on the part of the coach,
that reinforces behavior on the part of the client.
That's what acknowledging is.
Acknowledging is saying,
"Great." How easy is that, right?
(laughing)
Acknowledging is going,
you know, just nodding your head is acknowledging,
"I got it, I got it."
"I'm hearing you."
"That's good. That's terrific."
You know, again, this comes back to positive reinforcement.
We all like to be reinforced for our good behavior,
our efforts, right?
And you become important in the client's life,
in that you're trying to help them
improve their performance.
And I need that feedback from you.
You know, if you're my coach,
I need, I need you to say, "Great."
I need you to say, "That sounds terrific."
I need you to say, "Great job."
And it, and it can be, you know,
just the very simple thing of saying,
"Great," or nodding the head.
Nothing, nothing very difficult about that.
But you know, as a coach,
you have a role in motivating.
You know. You are a source of motivation.
Or you can be,
should be a source of motivation to your client.
You may say, "Well, that's their boss's job."
Or "That's the job of..." you know,
the compensation system or something.
Well, nonsense.
To the degree that you have
any significance in their life,
you're a source of motivation,
or you're a source of de-motivation.
And if really, if you fail to acknowledge, or recognize,
it's another term you could use here, recognition.
If you fail to recognize their efforts,
then that is de-motivating, right?
When someone behaves,
when someone makes an effort,
and there's no reinforcement,
there's no acknowledgement, recognition,
the absence of is demotivating, right?
What is demotivating is not necessarily,
you know, a punishment.
It's not necessarily something bad happening,
but it's also just simply the absence of.
So you can't allow that absence
when your client is behaving
in the way you'd like them to behave,
when they are making an effort,
when they are engaging in practice,
when they are working with their team
to improve performance,
they need that from you.
So acknowledging, again,
can just be saying,
"Great point. I really appreciate you making that effort."
Something as simple, simple as that.
But you know, it's not a bad idea at some point,
to record your own coaching sessions,
and listen back to them.
And sort of go through each of these skills
that we're talking about in this section of the course.
And ask yourself whether you're using them.
I mean, ask yourself, are you recognizing,
or acknowledging good behavior
on the part of your client?
Check to see if you're doing that.
It's pretty important.
Thanks.
(bright upbeat music)

--- Using Silence ---

(gentle music)
-: Hi, folks.
Another technique, and it's almost a non technique, is,
and again, this is so simple that you may think
why do you even need to bother,
but using silence.
Silence is something, not nothing, believe it or not.
Silence is a vacuum.
And where you say there's nothing in a vacuum,
but a vacuum draws things in, sucks in.
In a group setting, as a facilitator,
you know, just understand what we do in our culture.
At least, this is North American culture.
We don't like silence.
We have a great need to talk.
We're a noisy culture, right (laughs)?
There's noise all the time.
There's music on our iPad,
and there's music over the sound system, and there's TVs on.
And I mean, there's noise, noise, noise, noise, right?
And that noise sort of hinders our thinking in any deep way,
in any meaningful way.
And if you've ever noticed in a group setting,
if you're the facilitator, you try not to.
Let there be silence, just wait.
And you'll notice that you're tempted to jump in, right?
You wanna jump in.
Now, one danger for a coach is that you're smart.
You think you're smart, you think you have answers.
You think you have a lot of ideas (laughs).
And you may, it may all be true,
but you want things to come from the client.
You want the client to own things.
You want the client to own the idea,
the action plan, the credit for, right?
And sometimes we as coaches tend to be too anxious to talk
and not shut up, to put it crassly.
And there's a time when, you know,
your client may be frustrated.
You've made an empathy statement, you know, let's say,
and then just let the client think for a minute.
You know, 30 seconds, okay?
Half a minute, it's not that long.
Let them think and let something come from them.
Let an action step, an idea, an insight come from them.
So what I'm encouraging you to do is listen to yourself
and listen to see if you're just a little too anxious
to fill in the void and make noise, okay (laughs).
And maybe you'd be better off sometimes
to just be silent
(gentle music)
and let something come from the client.
Something will come from the client.
You sit there silently, the client will talk.
Something will come from them.
Just an idea.
Hope that's helpful, thanks.
(gentle music)

--- Brainstorming Together ---

(light music)
-: Brainstorming.
Now, most of you watching this have probably
had some training in brainstorming.
And if you haven't, just very, very briefly,
the key point about brainstorming,
which we usually think of in a group setting, right,
with a team.
And you can brainstorm, you know, causes of a problem
or solutions to a problem, why it happened
and what we can do about it, right?
That's what we usually brainstorm.
And the key magic, if you will, or the chemistry
of brainstorming is putting aside judgments, right,
and just coming up with ideas.
And I know you may think, well why is there magic in that?
Well there is, there's some chemistry in that.
And in brainstorming you are free, even encouraged
to say wild and crazy things.
Why?
Not because that wild and crazy thing is what we might do,
but rather that wild and crazy idea
may stimulate an idea in somebody else
that might actually be the best idea, right?
So it's sort of a bouncing around chemical reaction
sort of thing, right?
So we're used to thinking about that in a group setting,
but could we one-on-one with a client, as a coach,
could we use brainstorming?
And the answer is yes, we could use brainstorming.
And it's a form of problem solving, right?
And you may be stuck on something,
what do we do about my team that won't do this, right?
Or what do we do about this other manager
who's not helping us out here?
Whatever the issue is.
And what the coach can do is say,
would you like to brainstorm this.
And now, if you're gonna brainstorm
you both have to be on the same channel, right?
So you have to say to the client,
why don't we brainstorm this,
or would you like to brainstorm this?
And then assuming that you know
that your client understands what brainstorming is,
if not you can give them a two minute explanation
like I just did, and then go back and forth
and say, okay, how do we solve the problem
that your team doesn't show up on time,
or some members of the team don't show up?
Let's just say that's the problem.
How do we solve that?
What's, what's one idea?
And the client thinks for a second
and says offer them $10 every time they come on time.
Okay, you might write that down.
Don't judge it.
No judging, this is where the magic comes, right?
If you say we don't have money for that,
the moment you do that you're not brainstorming anymore.
So then you, then you, when you're the coach and client,
you the coach participate in the brainstorming, right?
I mean, you're sort of on an equal plane here
when you do this.
So you say, we could make a chart
and have stars every time somebody comes on time.
Okay, we could simply take roll call at the beginning
of the meeting and keep track of how many are on time.
The other person says, lock the door
two minutes after the time we're supposed to meet.
Anyway, you get the idea.
You go back and forth and then, you know,
when you've, you know, you do it for a little while, right,
you do it for a few minutes and then you say to the client,
do any of those ideas sound like they'll work for you?
And first ask them if they think
that's enough brainstorming, they'll probably say yes.
And then ask them what they think might work for them.
And then you go into action planning, right?
So you wanna try that?
They say, yeah, I'll try that.
So when do you think you'll try it?
You know what, when, right?
You always go through that.
Who's gonna do what, when?
That's action planning.
So you, the client, are gonna do that
at next Wednesday's meeting.
Yeah, I'll try that next Wednesday meeting, great.
You know, let me know how it goes next week.
So, you know, you've made the loop.
You've created the accountability.
Created an action plan.
You created accountability, right,
from the brainstorming.
Make sense?
Easy, but it's very useful sometimes.
Thanks.
(light music)

--- Exercise 5: Coaching and Communication Skills ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Giving Feedback ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi again, friends.
Let's talk about giving and receiving feedback.
Now, why do we not give feedback?
You know, and let's be honest,
we're not all that courageous
and many of us don't give feedback,
'cause we've had bad experiences,
both giving it and receiving it, you know?
Many people have learned to hate the phrase,
can I give you some feedback,
'cause what does that mean?
It means I've criticism, is what it means, right?
Doesn't mean I'm gonna say something good.
It means I'm gonna criticize you in some way.
So, we do sort of have a immediate negative response
or fear, if you will,
when somebody's gonna give us feedback,
because of the way it's been given in the past.
So you need to establish a new pattern
with your clients where it's okay, where they expect,
they want your feedback, and they will want your feedback
if they feel that you are genuinely trying to help them.
That's the key thing.
You know, you're not there to criticize them.
You're there to help them.
So you're gonna say things like,
you know something that might work,
something that might be helpful to you,
something that that you might want to try, you know,
those are sort of positive suggestions
rather than, you know, you don't do this,
you don't do that, you know,
so the negative thing,
so you wanna try to structure your feedback
with positive actions that they could take.
So I want you to think
through your feedback before you give it, right?
And be sure that you are giving helpful feedback
and you're giving it in the spirit of caring
about the other person and helping the other person.
And they will sense that and telling them
what they could do rather than what they're doing bad
will definitely cause them
to digest feedback better.
But, you know, you may not give feedback,
because you may think, well,
everybody else doesn't seem to have a problem with that.
You know, I seem to be the only one who sees that.
Well, that's not good.
You may also sort of feel like, gee,
if I give 'em the feedback that might start an argument,
you know, I might start a negative interaction.
I might hurt their feelings.
Well, sort of overcome that
and overcome that by understanding what your job is
and your job is to be helpful, right,
to the other person and to help them improve.
And that will lead them in the right direction.
Now here's some guidelines for giving feedback.
Let's just go through these.
And as you're planning to give feedback,
you might remember these and sort of check them off
as you're planning to give somebody feedback.
Be sure of your intention, right?
Be sure that your intention is to be helpful
and be sure that what you're gonna say is gonna be helpful,
not simply critical.
Think it through.
Be clear, pinpoint, right?
Don't tell me that I have a bad attitude.
Don't tell me that I don't seem to care.
Tell me exactly what the behavior is
that you want me to change.
That's helpful.
It's not helpful to give me, you know, to tell me I'm lazy,
or to tell me something else about my personality.
I don't want to hear that.
Tell me what I can actually do
that will be helpful.
Emphasize the positive alternative.
We've talked about that.
Be very specific.
Avoid, you know, general comments like, you know,
spouses do this, okay?
You never, or you always, you never wash the dishes,
you always leave your socks on the floor.
No, I don't always leave my socks on the floor.
Last Thursday, I picked them up, right?
I don't know why it is,
but maybe only my spouse does, but spouses
tend to and saying, you never, or you always,
that's the way to start a fight, okay?
If you wanna start an argument and create bad feelings,
make them feel bad, then they'll make you feel bad,
you know, if I say to you, you never do this,
they'll say, well, yeah, well you always do that.
You never do that.
It's not good.
When do they do something?
Okay, maybe they do it every Friday,
maybe they do it every Monday,
whatever, but be specific
and don't use those sort of generalized statements.
Again, pinpoint the behavior,
focus on the behavior rather than the person.
Okay?
Own the feedback.
You know, say this is what I'm seeing.
You know, others may not see this,
so I could be wrong, but you know, what I'm seeing is,
remember Stu, you know, I'm seeing that,
I'm feeling like that would cause me to shut up.
It cause me not to wanna participate
if you were going like that.
So be specific and own it.
Your manner and the feelings you express are important.
But be, be direct, be kind, be helpful, be sincere.
You know, that's a pretty good.
So here's a model for giving feedback.
Ask permission.
Can I share something with you that I observed?
And, by the way, I would avoid the phrase,
can I give you feedback?
Just because people have negative connotations with them.
But can I share an observation?
Can I share something I saw there?
Can I share how I felt, you know,
when I was in the meeting?
And they'll, 99% of the time they'll say sure.
Describe when it occurs, 'cause what you're going to,
the observation you have, the feedback you have,
it doesn't happen all the time, okay?
Nothing happens all the time.
When does it happen?
If you can pinpoint when it happens,
that can be enormously helpful.
You know, it happens at the beginning
of meeting, when you start a meeting,
when you present a problem to the group, right?
Or when you're concluding a discussion
about a problem and agreeing on actions.
It would be helpful if you did this.
Okay?
That's good feedback because it's when
and it's also the positive of what you could do.
Now, obviously what I'm saying
is you're not doing that, right?
I don't see you doing that, but I'm putting it
in the positive alternative rather than in the negative,
always a good idea.
It makes me feel, it is often a helpful thing
to say because, you know, and again, it's part of owning it,
but it's also part of explaining why it's a problem,
'cause of how people feel to it.
You're making a suggestion to act
in some way and then then check out with the person,
does that make sense?
Do you feel like you could try that?
Those checkouts, you want them to say, yeah, that's right.
I'll try that next time.
Great, let me know how it goes.
Feedback loop, right?
Let me know how it goes.
You're gonna make a note the next time you talk
to your client, you're gonna ask them about that, right?
Whenever you elicit an action step,
which should be in every coaching session, by the way,
you should be eliciting action steps
on the part of the person you're coaching,
make note of that and come back to it,
'cause if you don't come back to it at the next meeting,
they're gonna learn
that making commitments to you doesn't matter.
Okay?
So always, always make note
that they have made a commitment.
And then at the next meeting you're gonna ask them
how that went.
Does that work?
I hope that is helpful in giving others feedback.
Let's just talk in the next lecture
about receiving feedback because there's always a receiver
and a giver and sometimes you'll be on the receiving end.
So let's just talk about that briefly also.
Thanks.
(upbeat music)

--- Receiving Feedback ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi again.
Let's talk about receiving feedback,
and you'll probably be good at giving feedback
if you're good at receiving it, and vice versa, right?
If you're not good at receiving feedback,
you're probably not gonna be that skilled
at giving it either.
So I'd like you to think about
both sides of that interaction.
What makes somebody effective in receiving feedback?
Well, first thing, you know, accept the fact
that this person's trying to be helpful
and even if they're doing it badly, okay, (chuckles)
let's just assume they're terrible at giving feedback.
Every interaction we have with somebody
about our performance is a learning opportunity.
It's like every failure is a learning...
Entrepreneurs know this.
You know, every failed business idea is not a failure
unless you fail to learn from it, right?
Well, every attempt at somebody to give you feedback
is an opportunity, right?
Say, "Great, this is an opportunity for me to learn."
(chuckles) Now, it may not feel that way, right?
But work your head, you know,
try to get your head around the idea
that you want to learn, you want to improve.
This is what life is about, right?
So think about whatever this person says,
however clumsy they are at giving feedback.
Think about the opportunity in this feedback
as you're listening to the feedback.
And you can help the person giving feedback
by helping identify the specific behavior
that they're talking about.
And then, what can I do differently?
You know, how should I behave differently next time?
So if they don't give you good feedback
as to specifically what you could do next time
brainstorm with them.
Say, "Okay, let's talk about what I could do.
How could I fix that?
What do you think I can do differently?
Could I do this?
You know, what if I tried this?"
You know, so sort of, you know, start that...
You know, we wanna get to action.
We wanna get to better behavior.
We wanna improve our skills.
So, you know, use your coach.
You know, use the person giving you feedback
to help you learn and improve.
Ask for clarification.
You know, when the person says, you know,
"I think you should do this, and not this,"
or, "This doesn't seem to be working in your meetings."
Clarify it, you know, by saying,
"So what I'm hearing you say is that people
seem to be confused when I," blank, blank blank,
"do this, right?"
And they'll say, "Yes, that's what..."
or maybe no, then that's fine,
then let them clarify, right?
So problem solve together.
When somebody gives you feedback,
it shouldn't just be feedback.
It should be problem solving, right?
I mean, the feedback, the substance of what your coach
or your manager thinks you can do differently,
that's the beginning of a process.
And that process should very quickly go
into that problem solving process.
When does it occur? Why does it occur?
What can I do differently about it?
Summarize what you've heard from the coach
or the manager who's giving you feedback, or the peer,
or it could be a subordinate could give you feedback, right?
Summarize what you've heard and that is satisfying
and comforting to the person giving you feedback.
Because they wanna know that...
You know, the worst thing,
if you're giving somebody feedback
is they're going, "Really?
(chuckles) Okay, I got it."
You don't believe they've got it, right?
You don't believe they've really heard, right?
So feedback to them, summarize, you know,
what you've heard that you need to improve,
when does it occur, and what I'm gonna try,
what I'm gonna do differently.
And the person giving you feedback will go, "Great."
You know, that will make them happy, (chuckles)
that they have successfully given you feedback,
and they have successfully helped you.
Take responsibility.
We all have a tendency to blame the other guy.
Remember my prison story,
my inmates always blaming the other guy.
And the problem with my inmates was they didn't learn
and they didn't learn
'cause they were externals, not internals.
They were placing responsibility outside themself
rather than inside themself.
People who improve take responsibility,
and they're looking for what they can do differently,
not what somebody else did.
Somebody else may have screwed up too.
Somebody else may be a problem too,
but that's not my problem.
My problem is what I can do differently, right?
So let your coach or your manager know
that you are taking responsibility for your own behavior.
Let your manager or your coach know
that you are taking responsibility for your behavior,
and that will make you look good in their eyes.
I mean, to be perfectly honest,
we feel good about somebody who takes responsibility
for their performance, and it makes us very uncomfortable
when somebody is pointing the finger elsewhere
and not taking responsibility, so take that responsibility.
You know, when somebody gives you feedback,
it's not your annual performance appraisal,
a whole nother subject which I hate, but put that aside.
But it's not a total evaluation of you.
It's about a particular thing you can do differently.
You know, just keep in mind the world's best tennis player,
basketball player or musician, they have a coach.
And even though, you know, Steph Curry,
for the Golden State Warriors may be
the best basketball player today,
one of them, one of the two anyway.
During every game, his coach gives him feedback.
Now, it's not 'cause he is not good. He's great, okay?
But he's still getting feedback.
So getting feedback that you could do this differently
or you could improve on this, or you might try this,
it's not an evaluation of you.
It's just a suggestion about a specific behavior.
And if you keep that in mind,
it will make it easier to receive that feedback.
If you're thinking like, "Oh my God,
this person thinks I'm a terrible," whatever,
then you don't process the feedback well.
But if you take it as just a, you know, small component
of your overall performance, then it's easier to digest,
and it's easier for you to improve based on that.
Does that make sense?
(Lawrence claps)
(upbeat music)
Be a good receiver and a good giver of feedback.
It's a really important skill as both a coach
and as a manager in any organization.
Thanks a lot. I hope that's helpful.
(upbeat music continues)

--- Feedback Exercise Exercise 6 ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Justice and the Meaning of Discipline ---

(upbeat instrumental music)
-: Hi again folks,
this section of the course is on discipline,
meaning how do we not have problems
dealing with negative behavior, now in the previous section,
you learn to give feedback well, and listen to people well,
and that's, that's really part of it, I mean,
everything that we've done previously,
kinda leads to this issue of creating discipline in your,
your team, or your organization.
In this lecture, I just wanna talk,
and this may sound a little bit philosophical,
and I know that people kind of drift off into space
when something sounds philosophical,
but just bear with me for a moment,
on the meaning of discipline and justice,
because we, they're related, right,
if things are well disciplined
then there tends to be justice, if there isn't justice,
then people become undisciplined,
or the lack of discipline can cause people
to feel that you or the workplace are not just, so let's,
let's just talk about the meaning of discipline
and justice very briefly, first of all,
you know what, what is discipline?
Now,
you know many people think
when they hear the word discipline,
I'm gonna discipline you,
and what they really think is punishment,
right, I'm gonna punish you, I'm going to get you,
I'm gonna do something bad to you, that's,
we sort of have that association with the word discipline,
and that's unfortunate
because that's not what the word means.
If you have a team, let's just say,
let's go to athletics again,
let's say you have a basketball team,
and they're a well disciplined team,
does that mean the coach punishes them often,
it's not what it means at all, right, in fact,
the more disciplined they are,
the less negative consequences that they're gonna be, right,
because they're behaving according to a script,
they're behaving according to what they should be doing,
they're doing their standard work, if you will,
which we'll talk about later,
but a well-disciplined team is a team
where people know what they're supposed to do,
they know their roles, they practice their roles,
they follow through on plays
and on their roles within plays, right,
and then you can say they're well disciplined, right,
behaving according to desired expectations
is being disciplined, when you think about your children,
and if you only think about discipline as punishment,
you're gonna create problems raising children.
Your children are disciplined again,
when they behave as you would like them to behave,
when they behave in appropriate, proper ways,
so the question is how do we cause people
to behave in a disciplined way, not how do we punish people,
we want people to behave predictably
in particularly in the workplace,
there's discipline to doing different forms of work,
if you're a member of an orchestra, right,
you know you're the second violinist,
right, in an orchestra,
well orchestras are very disciplined, you know,
when the conductor stands up there and starts the symphony,
everybody knows exactly when they come in,
exactly when they go out, exactly what notes they play,
exactly what the rhythm is, you know, all that stuff,
and they do it, they perform as expected by the conductor,
and according to the music, right, you know,
for every negative behavior,
there's a positive behavior, right?
If you don't want people to show up for work late,
that would be undisciplined,
right, what's the opposite behavior,
the opposite behavior is showing up for work on time,
the more you reinforce,
you strengthen that positive behavior,
you eliminate or reduce discipline problems, right?
It's disciplined in a manufacturing plant
for people to put things in their place, right,
this is like 5S,
if you're familiar with that part
of Toyota production system.
Orderliness is a form of discipline, right,
so putting things back from where you took them,
right, cleaning up, that's disciplined,
so how do we get people to behave in that disciplined way,
to to have orderliness in the workplace,
so we don't waste time trying to find things,
discipline is self-control,
discipline is not me controlling you
or you controlling your employees,
but it's creating self-control, again,
you can think about your,
you know 13 year old son if you want, or whatever you have,
and him or her doing their homework on their own initiative,
right, rather than waiting for you to tell them,
if, you know after dinner,
they go up and do their homework for two hours
or whatever it takes before watching television,
and they do that reliably, they do it self-controlled,
you would say they're disciplined,
it has nothing to do with you punishing them,
it has to do with the fact that you have trained them,
you have trained them,
and you do that through modeling, you know,
all the things we've talked about
in terms of coaching and affecting behavior,
giving job instructions, and so forth.
Now, let's just talk for a minute about justice,
and why does this matter, you know,
everybody wants to be treated fairly,
and fair is another word for just, right,
it means the same thing, we wanna be treated fairly,
what does that mean,
it means that there are the same
expectations for all of us, you know,
let's say there are 10 members on my team
and we're supposed to arrive at work at eight o'clock,
we're supposed to start the line,
or start whatever work we're supposed to do at 8:15,
and I'm trying to do that, right,
I'm really trying to do that,
so I'm behaving in a disciplined way,
but that guy over there, whoever he is, John let's call him,
you know he consistently shows up late after eight o'clock.
He doesn't start his work till,
you know 8:30 instead of 8:15.
The more I observe that, what happens,
am I more likely or less likely to be disciplined myself,
well I'm less likely to be disciplined myself,
'cause it seems like it doesn't matter,
that's sort of the 55 mile an hour speed limit
versus going at 65, right,
I'm learning there are no consequences.
Well, then I'm gonna start to behave that way,
but what if I start to behave that way, and you quote,
discipline me, right, you give me, you call me in,
you give me feedback that I'm not behaving
the way I'm supposed to be behaving, and I say,
hey wait a minute man, you know, come on, so and so, John,
you know, he shows up late all the time,
and I feel unjustly treated, unfairly treated,
so part of creating discipline in the organization
is you being disciplined,
you being disciplined meaning
you're gonna treat people the same, when there's a rule,
a safety requirement, or a job instruction,
you're going to expect everybody to do it together, now,
you know, funny thing happens with discipline,
there are many organizations, Honda I know has done this,
they've created peer discipline, juries if you will,
where when somebody commits,
let's say they bring drugs into the workplace,
there are a list of infractions like that,
they bring drugs into the workplace,
the judgment is not just by the supervisor, or the manager,
or the team leader, or just management in general,
their case is presented to peers, you know,
almost every company that I know of
that has tried peer review,
has found that the employees are tougher,
they want their team members to be as disciplined
as they are, right,
because they want justice in the workplace,
they want equal treatment,
and they know that it hurts their performance,
and they know that if they're trying to behave
according to the rules, and somebody else isn't,
they like it less than the manager does.
Justice is deserved consequences, right,
as opposed to undeserved consequences,
and when our consequences deserve,
when our consequences are deserved, when A,
we know what the rules are, right,
we know what the consequences will be,
just like you know what happens when you speed,
or you know what happens when you speed
10 miles over the speed limit,
you know what the consequences are,
when you know that you are being
pulled over for a speeding ticket,
not because your car is an old car,
or not because the color of your skin, or something else,
you're being pulled over because in fact
you have gone 80 miles an hour,
and anybody going 80 miles an hour is gonna be pulled over,
I don't care what kind of car they're driving,
or what color their skin is,
that's fair and just equal treatment
is what we all want in the workplace,
and it's your job to provide that equal treatment,
or that which is deserved treatment, right?
Discipline is to the benefit, not just of you,
it's to the benefit of the entire organization,
you need to create a disciplined culture
in the organization, I hope that makes sense.
Let's talk about a process for discipline.
(upbeat instrumental music)

--- The Process of Discipline ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi, folks.
Let's just go through a process for discipline.
And this may be similar to your own company's process,
or if your company doesn't have a process,
you might wanna think about the steps
that I'm gonna present in this lecture.
First of all, remember our ABC model,
antecedent behavior consequence.
There are antecedents to discipline.
And what are the antecedents?
The antecedents are prompts; they're cues.
For example, in your team,
does your team have a code of conduct?
I strongly recommend that your team agree among themselves
on a code of conduct that they will hold each other to.
This is very important because if they're holding each other
to all arriving to work on time
or all cleaning up their work area,
or whatever the code of conduct calls for,
that eases your job.
It makes your job more and more easy.
So that's an antecedent, right?
That's knowing the rules.
There should be employee training
and an employee handbook that defines
appropriate and inappropriate conduct.
And, you know, there are certain things that,
you know, people should know this just from, you know,
training by their mom and dad, but everybody doesn't know
that sexual harassment is not acceptable,
or they don't know what sexual harassment is.
Is whistling at somebody, (clicks tongue), you know,
is that sexual harassment, or is it only touching somebody?
Or what exactly is it?
And what are the consequences that your organization
has agreed to for those kinds of misconduct?
Every employee needs to know that,
and that makes it fair, right?
That's an antecedent.
Now, let's just kind of go through,
I've got eight steps here
for a typical process of discipline.
And the first thing really is the antecedent,
building knowledge of the rules or desired performance.
And, by the way, the more your team,
and, you know, in the next section we're gonna start
talking about developing your team.
But the degree to which your team is a high-performing team
focused on goals and objectives,
motivated to achieve goals and objectives,
together solving problems,
together reaching consensus agreements
as to what they're gonna do.
The more you have that, the less you need
to worry about performance because they're focused
on achievement rather than on how to do the least,
you know, for example.
You need an effective feedback system
that guides their performance.
You know, on an athletic field,
you have the scoreboard,
and that scoreboard gives people feedback,
and they're responding to that feedback.
In the absence of feedback, people tend to wander around,
you know, but they'll be focused on performance
if there is an effective feedback system.
Again, in the next sections we'll talk about
developing a team scorecard
and effective feedback loops to your team.
Visual display of performance, very, very important
in terms of creating a disciplined workforce
or a disciplined team.
Immediacy of feedback.
Now, look, the worst thing you can do
is you can observe misbehavior, right?
And say, "Well, you know, she'll get over it.
She'll change. She'll fix it," and she doesn't.
And it goes on and on.
And as you see it going on and on,
you kind of get more emotional.
You know, you get angrier and angrier.
Bad mistake. You've made a mistake.
The mistake you made was not giving her,
if it's a her, or him, immediate feedback.
The quicker people get feedback on their behavior,
whatever that behavior is,
the quicker they're gonna correct it.
And the lower the emotional temperature, right?
As with your children, sorry to keep coming back to that,
but I've spent a lot of time
thinking about children. (chuckles)
As with your children,
you should not discipline or punish your children in anger.
You should get over being angry.
Don't come at them emotionally.
Come at them with the facts and the consequences, okay?
And the same with your employees.
Don't attack them emotionally.
You just create a whole negative feedback loop
where they're gonna be angry at you.
They're gonna feel mistreated,
blah, blah, blah, lots of feelings.
No, you don't wanna be emotional.
You wanna say, you know, "John, look,
you remember the rule that," blank, blank, blank.
"I've observed, you know, today and yesterday,
you're not following that.
I need you to follow that."
Not emotional, but John knows that you're observing,
you're attentive to his performance,
and now you're giving him feedback on performance.
And now he needs to respond to performance.
If people aren't getting feedback,
it's not just then to immediately punish them, right?
Your job is to give them feedback
so they never do get punished.
'cause they're responding to low level feedback
rather than escalating the problem.
Once somebody has not responded, right?
Once you've provided coaching and immediate feedback,
but they keep doing it, there becomes,
you get into the area of legality, right?
Now, one thing you can't do is jump to firing somebody
because you'll be in trouble if you do that, right?
You have to go through an escalation process.
And, of course, the first thing you do is a very low level.
Give them feedback, maybe a second time, give 'em feedback.
"Hey, John, you're still doing it
and, you know, I need you to do the other thing."
And then you need to write it down, you know,
and you need to call John into your office and say,
"Look, you know, on this date and on this date, you know,
I gave you feedback that you need to arrive to work on time.
You're still not arriving to work on time.
And, you know, I'm making note,
you know, we have a discipline sheet here.
I'm not putting it in your file yet.
It's not becoming a permanent part of your record,
but I want you to know that on this date, you know,
I'm sharing that with you, and I really need you to respond.
Is there anything I can do to help you?"
Problem solve with the person.
And I'll tell you, I've seen this many times,
when you start listening to them,
and you approach it from a problem solving standpoint,
what you find is, well, he has a real problem.
You know, and the problem is he has to drop his child
off at school on, you know, Tuesday and Thursday,
and those are the days that he's late.
Okay, well, you know, he needs to solve the problem.
But maybe you can help him solve the problem.
Maybe you can help think through alternatives
and maybe the team can somehow agree that,
okay, he doesn't show up for work at eight o'clock.
We know he is gonna show up for work at 15
'cause we all understand
he has to drop his child off at school.
If we all agree on that, and we all know about it,
that's just, it's fair.
If we've agreed on that, we understand the cause of it.
It's not just laziness." It's not just, "I don't care."
That's not what it's about.
He's actually behaving in a very disciplined way.
He in fact has to drop his child off to school.
So maybe we can compensate for that.
But, you know, when you sit down with him,
and you have this conversation and you're writing it down,
then you engage in that problem solving,
and together you try to solve the problem.
Let's just say that that doesn't work.
And he really doesn't care. (laughs)
And he keeps showing up for work late.
You call him in again, and you say,
"John, you know, I thought we talked about this.
We tried to solve the problem.
You know, I wrote it down.
Now this is going in your file.
This is an official, you know, warning
that you can't behave that way.
It's disruptive and negative for the team."
If that doesn't work, you might give one more warning,
but at this warning you're informing human resources,
and/or your manager, of the problem.
You give them the documentation.
You give them the discipline sheet
that describes the pinpointed behavior, right,
the measurement of that behavior
and what your conversation was with him.
That's in your folder.
If he still refuses to change his behavior,
now you need to bring human resources into the conversation.
And now we're talking about termination,
you know, or some other, but you don't do that by yourself,
you know, unless you have your own company.
In every organization, termination is a legal act.
And your human resource department
needs to be involved in that.
And what they're gonna wanna know is
that you followed the procedure.
You did the other, you know, seven things above
in order to make that possible or to justify that.
'cause the human resource department's role
is, first of all, to make sure everybody
gets treated justly, right, everybody gets treated fairly.
And those are the things that we've talked about
in terms of the antecedents, being informed,
knowing the consequences, et cetera.
And that you have given feedback well.
You've documented it. They've had a chance to respond.
The more you've given somebody feedback,
and they've had an opportunity to correct,
the more the burden is on them and not on you.
Initially, the burden is on you.
You have to make sure they're knowledgeable.
You have to make sure they've given feedback,
but then the burden shifts to them,
and they have to change their behavior,
or there have to be consequences to that behavior.
And that's where I'm not gonna tell you exactly what to do.
'cause you need to know exactly what the problem is.
And you need to know your organization
and your human resource policies.
I hope that makes sense as a process for discipline.
Thanks.
(upbeat music)

--- Solving Behavior Problems ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi again, friends.
This lecture is as much a reminder as anything else.
You will remember when we talked
about developing skill and motivation,
we talked about the can do versus can or can't do
versus will or won't do.
In other words,
is it a competency problem or a motivation problem?
That basic behavior analysis.
And while we're talking
about discipline and solving problem behavior,
I wanna remind you about what I'll just refer
to as the Mager model from Robert Mager and Peter Pipe.
And this basically goes
through the thought process or the analysis.
And before you engage
in any what we call disciplinary process,
any kind of punishment,
as part of your counseling step,
when you talk to the person and you inquire
about why they're behaving the way they're behaving,
I want you to think about this basic model,
and I want you to ask yourself,
can the person do what you want them to do?
Or is it a skill competency problem?
And if it is, then you have an obligation to provide them
with the training, with the skill,
or perhaps they should be in a different job.
I mean, that's entirely possible.
There's always a cost/benefit analysis
when you decide to develop a skill.
If you wanted to, you know,
if I was in an orchestra and you wanted me
to play the violin,
I think you'd probably be better
off hiring somebody who knows how to play the violin
because it'll take you a long time
to create a competent Larry Miller,
almost impossible, probably.
So, just to, you know, go through this, you know,
very quickly, on the left hand side,
it's the can't do, right?
I don't know how to do it.
You remember the touch typing
or playing the guitar, and you're gonna ask
is it a knowledge problem or is it a skill problem?
And if they can't do it,
then I want you to think about how do I develop that skill?
Go back to our lecture on skill building, right?
Your training role and the steps
in a training process.
Or is it a knowledge problem?
Is it something they can go online, you know,
on a platform like this and find a course
on Excel training or, you know,
whatever the issue is.
Provide them the means to develop the skill
or the knowledge that will enable them then to perform.
Then the burden becomes more on them, right?
If you've given them the tools
to develop a skill,
then it becomes more matter of motivation
than it's the will or won't do side,
the other side of this,
the right side of the diagram.
And then you go through your A, B, C analysis.
You know, are the antecedents there?
Are the cues there to cause them to perform?
Do they know what the pinpointed behaviors,
do you know what the pinpointed behaviors are
that you want them to engage in?
And then does it matter, right?
What are the consequences to that?
And be sure to provide positive reinforcement
to shape the behavior.
Remember, people don't just go boom in terms of,
you know, one instance, learning is progressive.
We shape the behavior of our children, we shape the behavior
of somebody learning to play a musical instrument,
or learning to operate a machine or learning
to be a good salesperson or whatever the job is, right?
So you wanna think about the sequence
of skill development and performance development
and are you recognizing the improvement as we go?
And this is where you may wanna practice
the four to one rule,
four positives for every one negative, right?
That's a principle now that is employed at Toyota
and other lean, high-performing organizations.
Managers are better off,
you're more likely to get high performance
if you are providing four-to-one recognition
versus criticism of an individual.
So are you doing that?
And what are the consequences for performance?
Are you letting the person know what the consequences
for performance are, either reinforcement or punishment?
And hopefully, you'll try reinforcement
before you try punishment,
because there are consequences to punishment.
There's a cost to punishment in terms
of relationships and how people feel about you,
but also, punishment can have a negative effect
on other people in the work environment.
It's much more desirable to get the behavior you want
through positive reinforcement.
So we've talked about all this before,
but I just thought in the sequence of thinking
about discipline and developing discipline behavior,
this was a good time to remind you of this model
and remind you to use this, this model and your thinking
about helping people improve their performance.
Thanks, let's talk about standard work.
(upbeat music)

--- Standard Work ---

(light music)
-: Hi again, guys.
Standard work, what is standard work
and why is it important?
Now, you remember,
we've been on this people circle.
Remember my three circles.
I haven't forgotten about that. (laughing)
I hope you haven't.
We're gonna go to the team
and process circles very, very soon here.
But I want you to think about the idea of standard work,
both for your employees and for yourself,
and why it's important,
and what is the meaning of it and how to develop it
and so forth.
Mr. Ohno, Taiichi Ohno,
who is one of the two founders of Toyota Production System.
Shigeo Shingo is the other.
They both have books, by the way,
that were translated from the Japanese.
I think they're great books to read.
And by the way, I probably oughta give you
a whole reading list of good books.
But Jeff Liker's, "The Toyota Way" and "Toyota Culture"
are very good books.
Jeff Liker, L-I-K-E-R, are very good.
"The Machine That Changed the World," wonderful book.
Will all help you understand what lean management is.
But one component of lean management,
and Taiichi Ohno said this.
He said, "You can't have continuous improvement
if you don't have standard work."
So and it almost sounds like a contradiction.
Continuous improvement means change, right?
But standard work means
do it the way I said to do it, right?
Sounds contradictory, and let me kinda clear up
that apparent contradiction,
which is not really a contradiction.
Let's say we're a football team or a basketball team.
And we have plays designed.
Every team does.
Now, if the players on the field are not executing the play
the way it's designed,
we can't really know whether that play will work or not.
We don't know whether it's bad execution,
in other words, they're not running the right routes,
or whether it's a bad play, this play just won't work,
unless they run the routes, they execute the play
as the play was designed.
In other words, they do their standard work.
And then, by seeing how,
when the play is run according to the way it was designed,
according to the standard work,
then we can improve upon that, right?
Then we can see what's working and what's not working,
and we can improve upon that.
So in the workplace,
it's very important to develop standard work
for your team members.
And this is your job according to Larry Miller.
You may not have heard this from your manager,
but according to me,
part of your job is to develop standard work
for and with your employees.
The with is very important in that,
'cause it shouldn't just be a top-down thing.
It should be an interactive planning thing
with your team members.
So what is standard work?
And in this lecture, I wanna talk about standard work
for frontline staff people,
team members, and then we'll talk about leader standard work
in the next lecture.
But just, you know, a thought about how much of your time
and how much of the time of a front-level team member,
first-level team member, is standard work.
This chart, you know, might be helpful
in thinking about that.
If you're working in a factory
where much, of course, lean manufacturing began,
but this applies, you know, in nursing in a hospital
or other work settings.
The first-level people,
a lot of their time, and it might be 80% of their time,
is doing standard work, doing regular things
that we know how to do, right?
Standard work is the definition of the best way
we now know how to perform a task or how to do a job.
That may change tomorrow if we find a better way.
But standard work is the best way
we know how to do it today, right?
It's a prescription for that.
Now, think about cooking a meal, right?
There's a recipe.
Well, standard work is following the recipe as it's written.
Now, if you follow it as it's written,
and then you may experiment on that,
you may try a little more of this or a little more or that
or cooking it a little longer or a little less,
and then you may be able to improve it.
And then when you improve it,
you may standardize that improvement, right?
So the improvement then becomes standard work.
I hope that makes sense.
But at the first level,
you might have 60, 70, 80, even 90%
of an employee's time is doing things
that are standard work.
As you move up to the organization, even to the CEO,
the president of the organization,
he or she has standard work too.
You know, there are standard reports they have to read.
There may be standard reports they have to write.
There are standard meetings that they have to go to.
So don't think that standard work is only something
for first-level people.
It's for people at every level,
but figuring out what that is is different
at every level, right?
Now, what is standard work will, of course, differ
depending upon the work setting.
So you know, standing here,
I can't tell you what standard work is in your organization
or for your team 'cause I don't know what you do.
But these items that are listed here
were items that were listed in a nursing organization,
a nursing organization that did home visits, okay?
Just for example,
the time and nature of pre-work discussions
and in a factory, setup time, right?
So before you start work,
there may be things you have to do to get things
in the right place, to make the right connections,
to inform people of what's gonna be done
or somebody informing you.
You may have to listen and digest
what needs to be done that day.
And that may be standard work.
In the nursing situation,
when you go into a home, there are standard questions
that you ask, right?
You prepare for the visit
by gathering certain materials,
certain supplies, certain information.
And then when you go into the home,
there are initial activities.
There are initial questions that you ask.
You observe things.
You wash your hands.
You know, depending upon what it is you're gonna do,
do an IV or something.
There are preparatory things.
And those things, we don't have to re-learn them.
You know, standard work are things
we don't have to figure out every time we do them
or every day.
Because we know they work.
We know they're best practices.
So they should become standard,
and then we should be checking off.
So these are just some things that might be standard work.
Take a look at this sheet.
And I'm giving you a spreadsheet
that's attached to this lecture
and will be also attached to the assignment
that I'm gonna give you, the exercise.
'Cause I want you to develop standard work.
Now, this is an Excel spreadsheet.
It's open.
It's not, none of the cells are frozen.
So you can change it
and modify it to your needs or to your organization.
But you see the simple idea.
This is for one position, right?
It doesn't have the name of an individual on it.
It has a position.
Because the standard work doesn't change
when people rotate, right?
So you know, you may have a work cell in a factory
with eight different jobs.
And at each job, depending upon the part that's being,
you know, put on or assembled or whatever the task is,
there's standard work at that workstation for that task.
And it may be me today, it may be you tomorrow,
it may be somebody else.
But standard work stays the same.
And the standard work should be posted at the workstation.
Often it's posted with photographs or drawings
illustrating how a task is done.
Now, on this spreadsheet, you know,
you see the tasks and I have categories of tasks
down the left-hand side.
And you know, feel free to change these.
I mean, these are, you know, I have setup time.
Well, setup time may be relevant in your organization
or it may not.
There's usually some preliminary activity in a day
that is standard to do,
so you can rename that if that's not a good name.
There are the work tasks.
And then there are maintenance activities.
Very often there's preventive maintenance
that's done on equipment every day.
And then there may be reporting
or some, you know, post-work meeting
or problem-solving something.
And you see, there are columns for how much time
we think this takes.
And we find that out by observing the task, right?
We observe the task.
We, you know, have a stopwatch or some way
of measuring the time of somebody who does this well.
And we note the time.
That's the predicted time.
And then you can go back and observe an employee
and see what the actual time is that's required.
And then there is, as you do observations,
there are problems, and the employee can fill this out
or you as the manager, the team leader, can fill this out.
There are problems that need to be solved.
And then there are what have we learned this week.
This could be for a whole week or it could be for a day.
And as you walk around, as you observe the work area,
you're thinking about, you know,
"Are they following standard work?"
If they're not following it,
it may not be that they're bad people.
It may not be (laughing) that they need to be punished.
It may be they figured something out.
It may be they've learned something.
And you want to know that.
You wanna understand what is it that they figured out.
What are they improving?
And then that should become standard work.
Standard work is not always right, okay?
Sometimes standard work is wrong,
but then we should be making the right the standard work.
I hope that makes sense.
So play with this form.
Try filling it out for, you know,
take one job of one of your team members.
Try using this.
And see how it works.
And here are, you know, steps in developing standard work.
Define the major categories.
Those are those things I put in,
like setup time, on the left-hand side of the chart.
Brainstorm with employees who know this task.
You know, know this job, right?
Brainstorm the different tasks.
Agree on which ones are done hourly, daily, et cetera.
Practice the standard work.
And practice it with an assumption
that you're gonna change it.
Don't make it rigid.
You know, there's a fine line here between standard work,
continuous improvement, and bureaucratic rigid behavior.
You don't wanna fall
into that bureaucratic rigid behavior category.
You wanna have the discipline of standard work,
but you want it to be intelligent standard work
where you are willing to change, modify, and improve that.
So here are, you can try following these seven steps
in developing standard work.
And this is a major part of your job, as I see it,
for any first-level manager in virtually any work setting.
This is, do you know what you're doing? (laughing)
Do employees know what they're doing?
Do they know how to do their job well?
And the answer to that is in the standard work.
If the standard work is what works best, great.
Then you can ask: Are people following that standard work?
And then you can brainstorm how to improve
upon that standard work.
And that's the process of continuous improvement.
Hope that makes sense.
Work at it, give it a try.
Feel free to modify the Excel spreadsheet
to meet the needs of your work setting.
Thanks a lot.
(light music)

--- Leader Standard Work - Setting the Example ---

(lighthearted guitar music)
-: Hi again, folks.
Let's talk about our responsibility as leaders,
or managers, and how we should model standard work.
If you want a disciplined organization,
you have to display discipline yourself,
which means you're not behaving in a random way,
an unpredictable way, that you have thought
through what is good performance
for a team leader in your position
and what are the standard things that you should be doing
as a manager, or team leader,
and are you following that standard work yourself?
If it is valuable to have standard work at the first level,
why would it not be valuable to have standard work
for the plant manager or the team leader
on the maternity ward, or the president of the company?
For every level, nobody should be exempt from this.
There are things that we should know are best practices
for our job, and we should be doing them
in a disciplined way.
So when you look at the spreadsheet,
you'll see I've given you a spreadsheet
that I actually initially developed with a client.
So there are different positions.
There's the first-level team leader.
There's a shift manager, a shift leader,
which means they had three shifts.
They had different lines.
So there was a team leader on each line, on each shift,
but then the shift leader was responsible
for all three shifts on that line.
That's the way they were organized, right?
And then there's the plant manager,
and then there was a continuous improvement coordinator,
the person responsible
for implementing these kinds of things.
They developed standard work for themself also.
So I'm giving you all those pages on the spreadsheet,
and again, you know, you modify them.
They're just a starting point for you,
if that makes sense.
So leader standard work is intended to define, you know,
what are best practices for you as a leader.
It creates consistency, removes uncertainty.
It helps you know what your job is
(chuckles) and that you're doing your job well.
It creates a disciplined process of management,
and it defines and assures those activities
that will support and encourage the work
of first-level people.
Part of standard work
is almost always the Gemba Walk, right?
And if you're the plant manager, you know,
I gave the example earlier of where the president
of Honda America Manufacturing, part of his standard work
was one hour on the floor every day.
He was out there on the floor, walking around,
not catching people doing the wrong thing,
but catching people doing the right thing,
practicing four to one, the positive, right?
And learning and looking at, you know,
and he sort of randomly, as he walked around the plant,
stopped and watched people doing their job.
He could see their standard work, and he would observe
whether they're following the standard work.
He would ask them if they're having any problems with that.
You know, what have they learned?
You know, have they learned ways to improve their work?
But it was the standard work of the president
of the company out there on the floor.
Now, if that's right for the president
of Honda American Manufacturing,
I'm sure it's right for you,
in whatever position you hold, that you do a Gemba Walk,
that you're out there on the floor.
Don't live in your office.
The worst thing, and I say this
to you as a new manager, right?
I'm assuming I'm developing this for new managers.
Don't develop the habit of sitting in your office.
You're not gonna learn much sitting in your office.
You need to be out there.
You need to be out where the work is getting done,
on the spot and observing the work,
and helping people problem-solve and improve their work.
That's where your job is.
Yes, you may spend some time
in the office filling out some report, but believe me,
that should be a small percent of your time.
It should not be the majority of your time.
So anyway, the Gemba Walk, you know,
being on the spot should be part of your standard work.
Yes, there are reports that you probably have
to do that are part of your standard work.
There are things you should read.
There is data you should review.
You should be reviewing and making sure
that the visual display for each team is up to date.
This is one of the difficulties
I found implementing lean management
in organizations where every team has a board
that is their key performance variables,
but somehow they're not being kept up to date,
and if they're not being kept up to date, they're useless.
They're not having the effect
of providing immediate feedback.
So part of your standard work should be
to assure that that's up to date.
Part of your standard work is to observe the process,
the flow and think about where there's waste.
You know, are things standing, adding no value?
And I know it's a very simplistic idea,
but when things are sitting on a pallet,
in a bin, you know, sitting anywhere,
not moving, they're not adding any value.
So the degree to which you can keep things moving.
There's continuous flow, interruption-free process.
You will be eliminating non-value-adding resources,
non-value-adding work, non-value-adding space,
non-value-adding money, which can all be redeployed
to value-adding activities.
You should have an eye for that
as you walk around the plant or walk around your work area.
That should be part of your standard work.
So take a look at these spreadsheets
and try filling one out for yourself,
creating one for yourself.
I suggest you meet with your coach and discuss this
and try it out and develop it.
Over a period of months, you should work on this.
It's not like a one-time thing.
It's a forever-time thing, okay?
All right, I hope that makes sense.
I hope the idea of standard work for you makes sense.
It's part of you setting a model
as a disciplined leader for your team,
then you can expect them to be disciplined too.
Hope that makes sense.
Thanks a lot.
(lighthearted guitar music)
(lighthearted guitar music continues)

--- Exercise 7: Discipline and Self-Control ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Teams - The Foundation of Organization ---

(light guitar music)
-: Hi again, friends.
This section of the course
begins the sections of the course on team leadership
and maximizing the ability of your team
to perform at a high level.
And I just wanna say this
and I can't emphasize this enough,
the degree to which your team is functioning
as a high-performing team, your job becomes easy.
People will self-manage,
they'll manage each other
and they'll be motivated to do the right things
if they are a well-functioning team.
If you are only managing people as separate individuals,
it's like herding cats.
You know, cats don't herd as a group.
You know, buffalo, dogs,
lots of other species flock together.
They herd together.
And human beings are like that.
You know, we like to work in groups
and we will be motivated to move in the same direction
and we will self-manage each other
if we really are a high-performing team.
Make your job easy, create a high performing team,
number one.
Remember our circles?
You know, you were probably wondering,
when was I ever gonna go from the people to the team circle?
And the time is now.
Now, the reality is that everything we learned,
all the discussion about motivation and communication,
giving and receiving feedback,
all of that is helpful in your management of a team.
All the communication skills or reflective listening
and making empathy statements,
those are all things that you can do one-on-one
but you also do them as you facilitate a team meeting,
and as you resolve conflicts in a team,
those are all very, very useful skills.
So these things are not entirely separate.
And the third section on process management,
if you're managing people well, you have those skills.
The team is performing at a high level.
They know what their process is,
and they will manage and improve their process.
I hope that makes sense.
They all kind of fit together.
Now, I'm a practitioner of lean management
or Toyota production system,
and back 20 years ago or so,
there was a wonderful book, which I recommend to you.
It's still a wonderful book
called "The Machine That Changed the World"
by Jim Womack and a group who were then at MIT.
And what they did was they studied
Japanese auto-assembly plants
versus US and European assembly plants.
And the bottom line is
that the Japanese assembly plants at Toyota and Honda
were much more efficient in terms of productivity
and they were also producing higher quality cars.
And so they wanted to know,
well, what's the difference
between what they're doing in Japan
and what we were doing in the United States or in Europe?
And there were a lot of differences.
And I won't go into all of the issues of lean management
at this point, but there's sort of a bottom line.
And the bottom line was they found
that the foundation of a lean organization is the team.
They said in the end
it's the dynamic work team that emerges
as the heart of the lean factory.
And that's because it's that team
that engages in continuous improvement.
It's that team that owns their process
and measures their process and worries about their process.
And the degree to which the team measures,
worries about continuously improves their process,
the entire organization will perform at a high level
and your job will be easy, okay?
Or at least easier, if not not easy.
So that is what we want to achieve.
And you may remember back to my chart
of the great history of the world
in terms of organizational systems, work systems.
And I said that,
we began hunting antelope or whatever we were hunting,
hunting buffalo or antelope.
And we did it as a tribe.
We did it as a team, a small group.
And we worked on the family farm,
little house on the prairie.
You know, we worked,
we had that close-knit, high-intimacy organization.
And then when we moved into Henry Ford's factory
and work was highly specialized,
and it was specialized both horizontally
in terms of doing very narrow jobs,
and it was also specialized vertically
in terms of you don't make decisions,
the supervisor makes decisions.
And very hierarchical organization,
that destroyed social intimacy.
And we got the backlash
or the reaction of the union movement.
And, you know, I remember my talk
about that in the inner city.
We got gangs and so forth
when people don't feel part of a safe group.
So we wanna create a safe group.
And lean management is based on having natural work teams
that are a safe group
and a group that feels ownership for their work
and comradery and so forth in the workplace.
It makes for a healthy workplace.
So your job is to be a team leader
that creates that culture in the organization
and creates that sense of ownership.
Now, I almost wanna talk
about the nature of teams for a second,
and I don't know what your experience is
with teams in your organization,
but there are really two kinds of teams,
and one kind of team is what were quality circles
or project teams.
Teams form to solve a problem, right?
They're not permanent, they're temporary teams
and they're not deciding
because when you form a quality circle
or a problem solving team,
they don't ultimately make the decision,
they go through the analysis of the problem
and come up with solutions and a plan
and then they present it to a managing team, right?
And the managing team then decides, yes,
let's go ahead and do that or let's not do that.
That is a very different thing than a natural work team.
You know, if you worked on the family farm or a craft shop,
you didn't have problem solving groups.
The group who worked there
was the problem solving group, right?
I mean, the natural work team solved problems every day
as tools worked or didn't work or whatever,
figuring out how to solve a problem for a customer.
It was the people who actually did the work
who solved the problem.
Now, natural work teams own a process
from point A to point B,
as work flows through the organization.
Now, natural work teams occur
at every level in the organization.
In other words, we have a first level work team
doing the most value adding work in the organization,
the work that produces the output that goes to a customer.
But then there are helping teams, managing teams,
first level team coordinators or team coaches
and then there are managing teams.
The plant manager and her team is a natural work team.
They naturally are organized to solve problems
at that level
as is the board of directors of the company
and the president and vice presidents of the company.
They're all natural work teams.
And they all should follow a similar pattern.
And I'll tell you, one of the things I found most critical
in changing the culture of an organization.
Cultures are vertically integrated.
We imitate the behavior that's modeled above us, right?
The model of our parents influences our behavior.
Well, if you want to change the culture of an organization,
you can't just have great teams at the first level.
You have to have great teams at the next level
and the next level up the organization.
And they should all be using
good problem-solving techniques.
They should all have a scorecard.
They should all know what their processes are.
There should be a lot of similarity
in terms of how they function at each level,
that will achieve sustainability, right?
Very often, programs, right,
that create teams at the bottom
don't sustain and they don't sustain
'cause the people above
are not practicing the same practices.
But if they adopt similar, if not identical practices,
they get it and they'll understand it
and they'll support it
and they'll sustain it at the next level.
As a new manager, it's important for you to understand,
I don't know, of course what your work situation is,
but it's important for you to understand
that most work today gets done in teams.
Software development is not a solo job.
Software development gets done in teams,
creating almost anything, almost every creative act today,
except maybe sitting down and writing a piece of music,
although often that's done in a team too.
But there are some jobs like writing either a book
or music that are more solo individual work.
But almost all work is done in teams.
So the degree to which you become a effective team leader,
you're more likely to move up the ladder of management
in your organization.
You'll be more successful.
Now, just a very brief history about teams,
back in the 1950s and early 1960s,
the idea of self-directed or self-managing teams
started to develop.
And it developed at the Tavistock Institute first,
a guy named Fred Emery and Eric Trist
were the sort of the first important thinkers about this.
And what they did was there was a coal mine in Scotland
and they were implementing new technology in the coal mine.
And the owner of the mine asked these professors
at the Tavistock Institute
if they would help develop an organizational structure
around the new technology.
This is important, social system,
technical system go together.
Very important idea.
And they looked at the technical system
and they said we don't really know the best way
to organize around that.
Who should we ask about that?
Who might we involve in thinking about that?
Now, just long history in coal mines.
Coal mines are dangerous places.
In the British Islands,
when they worked in coal mines 200 years ago,
they went down in family units.
You trust your brothers, you trust your family, right?
And when you work in a dangerous environment
you want people around you whom you trust.
Modern methods, so-called modern methods
meaning Henry Ford's factory modern methods
came to coal mining.
And with it,
the separation of decision making from doing, right,
now we had supervisors, they divided up,
specialized the tasks.
So we weren't working in a team,
we were managed individually.
And you know what else came?
Union strife, conflict, safety problems.
The whole culture of mining went downhill.
But these guys at the Tavistock Institute asked the miners,
they got the miners together and they said,
how would you like to organize to do this work?
Understanding what the new work will be
with this new technology,
how would you like to organize?
And guess how they organize themselves.
They organize themselves sort of back
into those family units or into teams.
And they implemented that
and they studied the learning from that.
And these are some of the lessons
that they derived from that.
They found that it's best to think about the work being done
by a whole group,
a team rather than managing individuals.
This is the herding cats
versus working with a high-performing team.
They found that the work group
could control their own work internally within the team
if they were empowered to do that.
They found that if team members were multi-skilled,
in other words, if you have, in a factory,
you have a work cell where there are eight different jobs,
the ideal case is that all the members
of the team can do all eight jobs.
Then when one is absent,
one gets sick for one reason
or if one falls behind the other,
the others can step in and do that person's job.
This creates continuous flow
because now you have flexible workers.
It's like on a baseball team,
every coach would like to have a utility infielders,
an infielder who can play third base, shortstop,
second base, first base, or even the outfield.
The more flexible, the more multi-skilled they are,
it gives you more options in terms of managing the team
and how the team functions.
It also enables people to think better
about how to solve problems if they are multi-skilled.
And the other thing that happens
is when team members rotate, do different jobs,
the job becomes more satisfying
rather than more boring and mundane.
If you're doing the same exact thing
day in, day out, repetitively,
your brain kind of dies on you, right?
But if you rotate, then it's much more interesting,
it's much more fun and your brain is alive
and you can solve problems better.
So those are some of the basic ideas
of the team structure.
And let's go on and talk
about how to really create that structure
and how to create a high-performing team.
(light guitar music)

--- Defining Your Team  Structure ---

(lighthearted music)
-: Hi again, folks.
Let's talk about the organization or structure of the team.
And it's very important to think about this
because how you structure the team, and who's on it,
and what they think their responsibilities are
will go a long way to creating a high-performing team.
Remember our SIPOC?
Supply, input, process, output, and customer.
Remember that flow?
Well, this kind of gives you a clue
as to how to organize your team
because almost every organization
is a series of teams, right?
Like each team being a chain, a link on a chain.
And every team has customers and suppliers.
and those customers and suppliers
may very well be internal customers and suppliers, right?
Whoever we get the input from in our organization,
they're our supplier.
And wherever our work goes,
you ask the question: Who cares about our work?
Where does it go and who cares about it?
The answer to that is the customer.
And that's usually the links,
the right and left links on the chain, if you will,
that are your customer-supplier relationships.
Now, it's very helpful
for a team to be able to think about who supplies them,
and what feedback do we give to that team,
and who's our customer,
and what feedback do we receive
from that customer as a team, not just as individuals,
because that receiving feedback
is the basis of problem-solving,
at least one of the bases of problem-solving.
'Cause if our customers are not happy, that's a problem.
And then you say, "Well,
what is it that makes them unhappy?"
That's a definition of the problem,
and then you can work on solving that problem.
But you have to have that basic structure.
Now, how large should a team be?
How large is a basketball team?
How large is a baseball team?
How large is a football team?
And if you think about those numbers,
they're nine, 11, five.
They're not 30.
You don't have 30 players playing on the field.
And there may be folks sitting on the sideline
who are part of the bigger team,
but actually playing actually on the field.
They're somewhere between five and 15,
and there's a lot of research on team size.
But that's the answer, between five and 15.
And right around the middle, you can think of as ideal.
But it does depend, it depends on the work.
And if you think about the work cell idea,
and you say, "Well, where does it go?"
You think about the space, right?
Can we really organize people where they're co-located,
and they can see each other's work,
and talk to each other about their work,
and solve problems very quickly?
There are a number of issues that go into team structure.
How many skills can team members learn, right?
'Cause it's nice to have a team where they're multi-skilled.
So think about the team size,
but please don't have it more than 15
and try to not have it fewer than five.
That's a pretty good guideline.
So first, you see the flow of the work, and you see teams,
and there's maybe work in process inventory,
a buffer between the teams.
Toyota got to the point
of actually eliminating that buffer entirely,
but then they went back and they put it back in
because they said the absence of that buffer
creates too much stress.
So there's always some buffer, but not too much.
You don't want a whole warehouse of buffer.
You want a few of the whatever it is we're making
that goes from one team to the next in between them.
Now, this is a team structure diagram
that I've used for many years
that describes it at different levels.
And you see the bottom level sort of SIPOC flow
of supplier, input, process, et cetera.
This is from Jeff Liker who wrote "The Toyota Way."
This is his description of the Toyota, typical Toyota plant,
and how it's organized.
And they basically flipped things upside down.
Or maybe it's right side up,
whichever way you'd like to think about it.
But the work teams are the red dots at the top
and the team coordinators or team leaders.
And in many plants,
a team leader will have more than one team.
If you have six, or seven, or eight people on a team,
it may very well be that,
and each sort of manage part of the flow,
a team coordinator might manage three teams.
I know that's the way it is at Honda
and it's that way at some organizations.
So you may very well, as a manager, have more than one team,
but it's nice if you can have more than one team
where you can see the connection between their work
and manage that feedback from one group to the other
so they can solve their own problems.
But anyway, this is the idea,
and then the kaizen is continuous improvement.
All these teams are engaged in continuous improvement.
Now, another way, particularly in a technology organization,
where it's not an assembly line, it's not a factory setting.
Your team structure might look like this.
I have a nursing organization that I've worked with
where the team structure looks like this.
They're in circles.
Now, if you look at this diagram
and you think about it for a second,
maybe these are software development teams
and one of the big circles is in India.
Another big circle is in California.
And another big circle is in China, just for example, right?
And then within those big teams,
there are smaller teams, right?
And those smaller teams each have a team leader
who may be a working team member.
So there's a leadership team for that group of teams
and then there's an overall manager of that organization.
Now, what are these sort of triangle things,
like the red dots and the green dots?
What's that about?
Well, that is about subject matter experts.
So what you can have is maybe in a team structure,
you can have one team member
who's responsible for quality improvement, quality control;
another person who's responsible for training;
another person who is responsible
for the information flow within the teams;
or another person who's responsible for software,
computer maintenance.
What I found in almost every office I've ever been in
or worked in,
there was an unofficial software guru,
some geeky guy who you always went to.
He was the go-to guy for any problem
anybody was having with their software.
And it wasn't a paid position.
I mean, he had a real work job,
but he was just good at it.
He was a subject matter expert.
And that's normal.
Well, you know what?
What you can do is you can create knowledge sharing
and problem-solving
among subject matter experts cutting across teams.
Does that make sense?
And that's the idea of that,
the red dots and the green dots.
And it's just meant as an illustration, right?
Now, optimize your team.
What does optimize your team mean?
Teams will be optimized if...
I mean, you think about the design of a team.
If you were designing an athletic team,
you'd want them to have good information, right?
You'd want them to have a scoreboard
that every time they shot the ball through the hoop,
the scoreboard changed,
so they got immediate feedback, right?
And that would be satisfying to the players.
It would also be satisfying
to the fans in the stands, right?
Because if that scoreboard is gone
and they have to wait for the feedback,
they tend to get bored and they tend to leave the...
They tend not to pay for their tickets, okay, to the game.
The money comes from that scoreboard.
You think it comes from the players,
it actually comes from the scoreboard,
and people being able to see the score
and respond to it, cheer for it, and so forth.
Well, the same thing is true on your team.
If we wanna optimize the performance of the team,
we want to think about what information accessed,
delivered how, would optimize their performance?
What skills on the team would optimize their performance?
What tools, computers, or other stuff that you use
would enable that team to be self-managed
to the optimum degree, right?
What motivation, what rewards, awards,
what praise would optimize that team?
And what decision-making authority would optimize that team?
What decisions can this team make?
If you optimize those things,
you optimize autonomy,
you optimize the ability of the team
to function on their own,
and your job becomes easier, okay?
You take all those things away,
and then you're herding cats again,
you're managing each one individually,
but if you think through the optimization of the team,
you'll create a high-performing team.
And what you want your team focused on
is continuous improvement.
You want to make sure that the team is set up,
so they have the data,
they know what the big challenge is,
and they are, daily or weekly, setting targets
for improving their own performance.
It's not about you telling them what their target is.
You can tell them what the big challenge
of the organization is, right?
Where we're trying to get to as an organization.
But then you want the team to think, right?
To think, to consult together,
to make these decisions together.
We'll talk more about that.
But the degree to which they own short-term targets
and are problem-solving towards those short-term targets.
Your job becomes easy, right?
The degree to which you are solving problems
and telling them the solution.
You're herding cats again.
You're making your job hard.
Hope that makes sense.
Let's come back
and let's talk about the stages of team development.
(lighthearted music)

--- Stages of Team Development ---

(cheerful music)
-: Hi again, folks.
Let's talk about stages of team development,
and there's a model that is very common.
If you have have any training and teamwork at all,
I'm sure you've heard this model.
It was really begun in the 1930s
by a professor who studied the development of teams,
and there are four stages of team development.
I'm gonna give you a model that I've developed
that I also, I like.
Maybe I just like it 'cause I developed it,
but I think other people have found it helpful as well.
Well, when you first form a team, there is a forming period,
and that's where people are figuring out their role
and the role of other people and relationships.
You know, who are you?
Who am I?
Who makes decisions?
You know, is somebody bossy?
Is somebody domineering?
Is somebody wimpy and never speaks up?
And are some people working harder than others?
And you know, just what's the deal here, right?
I've just moved into this house called this team,
and I'm sensing, I'm figuring out.
And you get everybody figuring things out
and people tend to bump into each other a little bit,
and it's okay.
You know, you just gotta go through that forming stage.
And then there's a storming stage,
and the storming stage
is where people may rebel against responsibility.
Say, "Well, it's not my job.
Why do I care about that, right?"
And they may bump into each other, right?
And they may have mini fights.
I won't call 'em real fights,
but they may say, "Hey, wait a minute!
That's my territory.
You stay in your own territory.
That's my job.
It's not your job."
Or, "How come you're not doing that?
You're supposed to be doing that."
Or, "You're giving me lousy stuff,"
or, "You're messing me up," or something.
You know, there's a whole sort of, there's a conflict stage.
And rather than freak out over that,
it's useful for you to know that it's normal.
Almost every team goes through that,
and almost every team gets out of that.
Now, you're not just passive
as they go through the storming.
You're helping to resolve conflicts.
You're helping to make sure people do know
what their roles and responsibilities are,
that some people may need feedback
in terms of their communication with other people, right?
That may not be that helpful.
So you're giving them that feedback.
Remember, our giving and receiving feedback skill
will really come in useful during this storming stage.
But you seek to clarify things,
and you are now helping people
learn how to work together well.
And then there's sort of a calming down, right?
A norming stage,
where people sort of settle into their roles
and they settle into their relationships,
and they begin to function,
and then there's the performing stage,
where people really are now,
everything becomes fluid, if you will,
and people begin to perform at a higher level.
They've resolved their conflicts.
They understand each other, they know each other's jobs,
and they will go on to focus on the performance,
focus on the data,
and that's the really productive stage.
So you want to get them through those first three stages
as quickly as possible,
and your job is to be the coach, right?
You are a coach,
and you're gonna coach them through those stages
to get to that performing stage,
and that's when you're really focusing on the process
and you're focusing on improving the process
and solving problems.
This is a model I came up with a few years ago
that describes maturation,
a team becoming mature and who makes what decisions.
You know, initially when you're raising children,
and your child is two years old or three years old,
do you say, "Would you like to decide on the menu tonight?"
What you might find
when you ask your two-year-old to decide on the menu,
you're gonna have ice cream first,
and then you're gonna have cake,
and then you're gonna have more ice cream.
That's gonna be the menu, right?
Well, no, no, no, no, no.
That's not gonna be the menu.
Mommy and daddy decide on the menu,
and the menu is we're gonna have a salad,
and you're going to eat some salad,
and then we're gonna have the main course,
and then after you eat those,
(chuckles) every parent's been through this, right?
After you eat those, then you may have dessert,
which might be ice cream, okay?
That's gonna be the menu.
Now, so mom and dad are pretty controlling, aren't they?
When the child is immature.
But what do you do as your child develops good judgment,
develops responsibility and maturity?
What you do is you,
hopefully, you turn decision making over to them.
You back off, if you will,
and you allow your 14-year-old daughter
to decide when she's gonna do her homework,
because she has taught you,
you have learned that she cares about her homework,
and she will get her homework done
because she feels that responsibility.
That's what you want, right?
So when she is there at that point of taking responsibility,
you as a mom or dad, you don't be pushy.
You back off.
You have now sort of delegated responsibility.
She's becoming more autonomous.
The object of a parent is to develop children
who are completely autonomous, right?
They're gonna leave the house,
they're gonna be on their own,
and you're not gonna be telling them what to do,
so you want to develop that maturity of decision making.
Now, you back off and give them responsibility
as they demonstrate.
There's sort of a left foot, right foot.
First you teaching them what responsible behavior is,
them demonstrating that behavior,
and then you backing off, right?
But do you say at the point of,
say they're 16, and they legally can drive,
"Well, they're 16, they can drive.
They can do what they want."
And they come in at three o'clock in the morning
with your car?
No, no, no, no.
Not my children, anyway.
No, no, no.
We agree on what time you will come in.
You take the car, and you need to be back
at the time you have said that you're gonna come back,
let's call it 11 o'clock at night,
and you have to demonstrate that.
And if you don't demonstrate that responsibility,
if you come in at three in the morning,
you lose the car keys, okay?
That's it for two months or some period of time.
You're in timeout.
You don't get the car.
Now, understanding that progression, right,
from the bottom left is low taking responsibility
and high control by the manager,
in that case, being the parent, right?
When a new employee comes in,
until they demonstrate their responsibility,
you're gonna be more controlling.
You're gonna be more observing on a high frequency, right?
But as they demonstrate their responsibility,
you'll more back off and let them take that responsibility.
The same with the team.
You know, when you create a team,
and even if you call it a self-directed team,
which is a misnomer,
'cause there's no such thing as a self-directed team.
As long as there's a chairman of the board
and a CEO of the company,
no team is self-directed.
Every team takes direction.
The plant manager,
the president of a company takes direction.
So nobody's self-directed, right?
But they become more autonomous
as they demonstrate that responsibility.
Now, the two defects that occur
is the manager backs off, right?
And says, "Well, you know,
you're supposed to be responsible.
Do what you want.
I can't tell you what to do."
That is permissive, right?
That's that lower right corner of that matrix,
and that produces performance problems.
On the other hand, if the manager is over-controlling,
wanting to make too many decisions
when the team has demonstrated their responsibility,
that demotivates the team
and the team then says, "Well, the heck with it, you know?"
So think about your relationship to your team
in terms of what autonomy you're giving them.
Are you developing that team
so they are moving northeast on that matrix?
Are you teaching them what responsible behavior is?
Are you creating the situation
where they take responsibility for their performance?
When we talk about the team scorecard, and so forth,
that will help create that.
But that is your job.
Your job is to move them northeast,
just as your job as a parent
is to develop highly responsible, autonomous children.
I hope that makes sense.
Thanks.
(cheerful music)

--- Writing A Team Charter ---

(bright music)
-: Hi again, friends.
I wanna talk about a team charter.
And as the leader of your team,
I want you to lead your team in developing a team charter.
And the charter basically says, why are we here?
What's our purpose?
What are our objectives?
Who's on the team?
What's our process?
You know, basic questions about
what are we doing here as a team?
And I wanna sort of caution you,
I found with my clients that I'll sell them
on the idea of doing a charter for a team
and then I'll find they'll spend two months working
on their charter as if it was some great legal contract.
Please don't do that.
Don't do that, don't overwork this issue.
It should take one or two meetings
with your team of maybe an hour to two hours total time
to develop your team charter.
But it's worth doing
because it's sort of like the constitution, if you will.
I mean, it lays out the basic reason we're here,
the basic principles of
how we're gonna work together and so forth.
So with that sort of caveat of do it
but don't spend too much time on it,
what is a charter?
Well, a charter defines your purpose,
principles, your process,
and the essential ways you'll function as a team
like a country's constitution or a company's bylaws.
So it's sort of a mini set of bylaws for your team.
The team charter is really a contract
among the team members.
So they're agreeing on how they're going to work
with each other, how they're gonna treat each other,
and it's a contract with the manager above,
or the management team above.
And it defines who your customers and your suppliers are.
One way to go about this is
that you can personally sort of draft a charter or
and then meet with your team and go over it, or
and it depends on sort of the maturity of your team,
but the best way to do it is just brainstorm it
with your team.
And then maybe after brainstorming a bunch
of bullets in turn in each of the categories,
maybe you go and wordsmith it and, you know,
write it into a nice document,
and then share it back with your team and get feedback.
And then you go to your manager above
and get feedback from his or her, him or her,
and agree that, yes, this is our purpose.
This is what we're doing here.
Start by defining your SIPOC.
You remember the SIPOC?
Who's our who, who supplies us with the stuff we use?
What is that input?
What is our process?
What are the boundaries of the process?
Where does our process begin and end?
What goes out?
And who are our customers, right?
That's your SIPOC.
This sheet I'm gonna give you is a Word document
that you can use to work with your team
in defining your SIPOC.
That information should be part of the charter.
That should go into the charter.
So here are the components of a charter.
A statement of purpose.
You know, what is your purpose as a team?
Who's on the team?
And not by names 'cause names change, right?
People will come and go on a team,
but what are the functions?
You know, what are the jobs that con, you know,
make up the members of your team?
Who is the sponsor of your team?
There's always somebody above.
We all work for somebody, right?
There's always somebody above who is the sponsor
is authorizing our team
or giving our team some boundaries and authority.
Who is that person or who is that position?
What is that position?
Define the process, right?
That input to output process.
And make sure you, you know,
sometimes boundaries are not clear,
sometimes they are clear.
But let's agree at this point
on where that process begins and ends.
What is our basic responsibility for performance?
Our performance is within the process
for managing the process.
What is that basic responsibility?
And this may be the most important part
in terms of brainstorming with your team
by what principles should we conduct ourself?
What is our code of conduct as a team?
How do we agree to talk to each other?
Do we agree to show up on time to meetings, for example?
Silly thing, but actually it becomes quite a problem
for many teams.
What is our code of conduct?
What principles should we adhere to
in dealing with each other?
And to whom do we communicate?
Do we, what do we communicate up?
What do we communicate to each other on the team?
What do we communicate to suppliers and customers?
So those are the things that should be in the charter.
Again, you know, take a meeting or two,
working with your team to develop that.
And it's sort of a team building activity.
And it's a team building
because it's really agreeing on who we are as a team
and how we're gonna behave as a team.
Very, very important.
Okay, that's the charter.
Let's go on and talk about team roles and responsibilities.
(bright music)

--- Roles and Responsibilities on A Team ---

(bright music)
-: Let's define the roles and responsibilities on your team.
Now, you may take this for granted.
You may say, "Well, wait a minute.
I'm the leader of the team, so I facilitate the team.
I conclude that the team has agreed on these things.
I hold people accountable.
I take notes on what we agreed to.
I have the watch.
I keep track of the time.
I do all those things 'cause I'm the leader of the team."
If you wanna make your life difficult,
you can have that attitude,
and if your team is very immature, that may be right.
But as your team matures, remember the teenager growing up,
delegate things to other team members.
And let me just give you an example.
I was working with the president and his team
of the exploration and production group,
about 6,000 people, of one of our largest oil companies,
and I coached that team for about a year.
And the president
of this exploration and production company,
when I observed first observed their meeting,
they had a long rectangular table,
and guess where the president sat?
Of course, he sat at the head,
quote, the head of the table, right?
The power position.
And it was his meeting, you know,
and everybody else was just sort of there to please him,
and you could, if you observed,
it wasn't really a team meeting.
It was more of a one-on-one reporting,
but in a forum for public humiliation
is what it really was, right?
It wasn't really a shared sense of,
you know, we all own this as a team.
So as we developed the team,
I suggested that he not facilitate every meeting.
I mean, it was clear he was the boss, okay?
Nobody disputed or was confused about that,
but does the formal leader have to lead every meeting?
Is the skill of facilitating a meeting
something that's only owned by the formal leader?
In fact, this guy was the president, all right?
His people on his team were vice presidents.
Well, they were also learning
team facilitation skills, right?
So it wasn't like he was the only one
who was gonna be good at facilitating the team.
So I suggested that at the end of the next meeting,
he asked who would like to facilitate
next week's or next month's.
It was actually a monthly meeting, but next month's meeting.
And that was sort of a surprise to the group,
because they always, they just assumed this is his meeting.
And he sort of had some trepidation about this.
He wasn't sure this was a great idea.
But I can tell you that after a few months,
he loved this because it relieved him of the burden
of always facilitating the group,
and he could observe
how other members of his team facilitated the group,
and he could sort of sit back and observe
and really act as a member of the team
and be thinking more
about the substance of the conversation,
rather than just his role as the leader of the team.
So that became the normative practice.
And I've done this with dozens and dozens of teams,
where the leader shares that facilitation responsibility,
so there are different roles on a team,
and one, of course, is always the formal leader of the team,
which let me assume that's you for the sake of argument.
But then you may have different people
acting as the facilitator of the team,
and we'll talk more in coming lectures
about what that facilitator does.
But you can also have somebody
who's the note taker, the scribe,
and just the note about being the note taker or the scribe.
You're not a court recorder.
In other words, you don't record everything people say.
In fact, that's a very bad thing to do,
because you want free-flowing conversation
and you want people to feel comfortable
saying things that 10 minutes later,
they may recognize themself as a rotten idea,
but they threw it out 'cause it was an idea.
But you don't want people held accountable.
Once you write something down,
you know, people are held accountable for that,
and that's a little intimidating,
so that will make people very hesitant to speak out.
So the scribe writes down,
has the agenda and their decisions and action items.
So the scribe writes down, what did we decide, right?
And what's the action plan?
We'll talk about action planning a little bit later,
but there's a what, a who, a when, you know, action plan,
and then you come back to that at the next meeting, right?
But the scribe does that.
And then I'm gonna give you an agenda, by the way.
I'm giving you a lot of good stuff.
I'm going to give you an Excel spreadsheet
that's an agenda,
and on the agenda, there are times allocated
for each item
that we're going to talk about this week, let's say,
and the timekeeper is the one watching the time,
and what the timekeeper does,
if there's 15 minutes allocated for a topic,
you know, with three minutes to go,
the timekeeper may have a flip chart
and just gets up and writes three, you know?
And everybody knows, "Oh, three minutes.
Okay, let's make a decision.
Let's get on with this."
And then at one minute, writes one,
and then goes like this for a timeout.
Our time's up on this.
It's good to separate that from the facilitator role,
because the facilitator's thinking about engaging people
and are people really having the opportunity
to share their thoughts,
and are people understanding what somebody is saying?
You know, there's a whole skill to that facilitation role
that you need to pay attention to,
you need to be focused on.
So you can easily lose track of the time
and lose track of the note keeping
if you're doing all those roles at once.
There may be other subject matter experts.
You know, you may decide that every week on your team,
you're gonna look at the quality data,
so maybe somebody's the owner of that quality data
and shares that at each meeting with the team.
That would be a subject matter expert.
And there might be
other subject matter experts on your team.
So what I'd like you to do
is I'd like you to consult with your team
about these different roles and responsibilities
and decide how you're gonna handle
those roles and responsibilities.
Are you going to do it all as the team leader?
It's up to you, but I don't recommend that.
Get the monkey off your back, right?
Share responsibility with your team,
and that makes 'em a better team.
It really does.
But let them discuss that and discuss...
You share those different roles with them,
and let them offer you their opinion
as to how we should handle those roles on the team.
Hope that works for you.
Try it out and see how it works.
Thanks.
(bright music)

--- The Agenda ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi again, folks.
Let's talk about the agenda for team meetings.
Now, first of all, what kind of meetings are you having?
And my recommendation, if you're in a manufacturing plant,
and you're at the first level in the organization,
I suggest you have a daily 10 to 15 minute huddle
at the beginning of shift with your team.
And you're gonna be at the visual display.
Some people call it a huddle board.
And you're gonna go over the data,
you're gonna go over any changes
that were made from yesterday,
anything that we want to experiment with,
any ways we want to try to improve things today.
And that's a quick meeting every day.
And you have an agenda for that.
Now, another kind of meeting that you may have,
and if you're at the next level of management,
or even if your team is not, you're not in a factory,
you may have a weekly meeting.
I know a lot of teams have virtual meetings
'cause they've got people spread out.
So it's on WebEx or Skype or some other,
you know, online meeting tool.
You must have an agenda.
People need to come to the meeting
knowing what the expectations are,
knowing what topics are gonna be covered.
And that makes for an efficient meeting.
If you or other team members don't know
what we're doing at this meeting, we kind of wander around.
And as Yogi Berra said, "If you don't know
"Where you're going, you may end up somewhere else."
And that's kind of true.
So you want to know where you're going,
and you want to know what the order of things is,
and you want to know how much time
you have allocated to each topic on the agenda.
Now, attached to this lecture,
I am giving you a great gift.
And it's a great gift.
It's an Excel spreadsheet.
And at the bottom, you know, I suggest you open it up now,
pause the video and open it up.
At the bottom of it, you will see
the first tab is the agenda.
Then there are other tabs for action planning.
Now, let's look at the agenda just for a second.
Sort of highlighted in light blue color
are standard agenda items.
Now, you can decide that these are the right
or the wrong standard agenda items,
but I'm telling you what has worked for a lot of teams.
The first thing you do on the agenda is go over the agenda,
and you ask the team members whether they agree
to this agenda or whether they have other items.
Is there other things they'd like
to problem solve or discuss or go over.
In a manufacturing plant, very often,
safety first, there's a quick safety conversation.
Then there's recognition.
And I know this may seem like an odd thing to you,
but this is sort of part of the four to one philosophy.
You know, we're really good at criticizing people
and catching people doing the wrong things,
but we're not so good at catching
people doing the right things.
So it's worth taking a minute,
and it doesn't have to be more than a minute,
to ask yourself the question has anybody
done anything right.
Has anybody done anything worthy of some comment
or recognition in the past week
or whatever the period is since our last meeting?
And that's not, you know, it doesn't have to come from you.
You know, you ask the whole team,
you know, is there any recognition?
Does anybody have any recognition?
And one team member may recognize another team member
for something he or she did that was helpful to them,
or some new tool they came up with,
or form they came up with,
or procedure they came up with, or some problem they solve.
So that's a good way to start a meeting,
right after sort of what is the agenda, safety,
and then recognition.
Then action plan review.
Now, if you look at the tab on the bottom,
the action plan tab, just go to that for a second.
And it's empty now, but you're gonna,
in your meetings, you're gonna fill this in.
I suggest you have a laptop, your scribe,
whoever's fulfilling that role, have his or her laptop.
And for each topic there should be some decision made.
Even if the decision is to postpone that conversation
to the next meeting, that's a decision.
So your action register that you see
there on that second tab, that should be the record
of the decisions we've made and the agreements we've made.
And there may be sort of a big decision.
And then under that there could be five
different action items that different people
are gonna take responsibility for.
And so you're gonna just ask people
who's gonna do that?
And John, when do you feel like you can have that done by?
And John said, well, I can have it done by next week.
Fine, you put the date of next week down there.
Now very, very, very, very important.
When you develop an action plan,
at your next meeting, I'm gonna be very
authoritarian on this, you must go over the action plan.
And here's why.
If you develop an action plan and people have agreed
to do things, and you don't come back and talk about it,
guess what's gonna happen, people aren't gonna do it.
People will forget about it,
and it'll become absolutely waste,
wasted time, wasted effort.
You won't make progress.
You must come back at each meeting,
review the action items that people have agreed to.
And this is not to beat people up if they haven't done it.
You know, it's simply to say John, you said,
your action item was to do this, how'd it go?
And John says, I forgot about that, I wasn't able.
And you say, okay, fine, when do you feel you can do it?
Or do you feel you can't do it,
should it be handed off to somebody else?
So it's not, you don't humiliate people,
you don't people beat people up.
But there is accountability in that people know
you're gonna come back to it.
And when I say I'm gonna do something, it matters, okay.
Discipline, remember, having a disciplined team.
this is discipline, people following through
on what they say they're gonna do.
But you have to be disciplined in leading a team meeting,
that you go back and you review these action items.
This spreadsheet is just an easy way to keep that record.
I mean, you can put it on flip charts,
you can do it, you know, any way that works for you.
But this at least is one good way.
Another common, and I do recommend this,
standard item on your agenda, is reviewing the scorecard.
You know, what are our key data variables?
And it shouldn't be 20,
it should be three, four, five key data variables.
Are we moving in the right direction,
the wrong direction, why?
What do we need to do about that?
And that can be quick, or it can take a lot of time.
Then under that, instead of the white space,
are new agenda items.
And maybe there's some new equipment,
there's some new project, there's some new customer,
you know, there's something new
and different that we need to talk about.
Or we may be engaged in an ongoing problem solving process.
We'll talk about problem solving later.
But you may be engaged in a problem solving process
around some problem, and that may be an agenda item.
Now, you notice over on the right hand side,
and let me get out of the way,
so you can sort of see this big.
There is who's gonna take responsibility for an item.
There's the time that you think
that's gonna take on the agenda.
And then you see the start time
and the end time of the meeting.
And that's, you know, let's just say the meeting
starts at 10 o'clock, that's what I have here.
But you change that, it may be three o'clock
in the afternoon or 10 o'clock at night, whatever you want.
But you put the start time, and then the minutes,
you see how the minutes are
for the standard items, that adds up.
And you can see that basically
there are 22 minutes for those standard items.
And let's just assume this is gonna be a one hour meeting.
At the bottom, you can see the total minutes
that are taken and the time left.
This automatically adjusts as you put in the items
and you put in how much time.
Now at the end of the agenda, at the bottom
of the agenda, you see it has a summary of action items.
Whoever's the scribe, whoever's writing down,
and this just should just take two minutes,
maybe three minutes, but just review what we've agreed to.
And sometimes, you know, it's amazing how quickly
people forget that they've agreed to something.
But the scribes, you put up the action items
that we've agreed to, we've agreed to John's gonna do this,
Mary's gonna do this, so-and-so's gonna do this.
Everybody nods their head, boom.
And then you can do a quick meeting critique.
How'd the meeting go,
is there anything we can do to improve the meeting.
That again, can be a one minute conversation.
Sometimes that leads to a much longer conversation.
But whatever works.
So anyway, this is one way of doing an agenda.
I highly recommend you use this.
You're welcome to modify it, any way you want.
But at least it's a starting point
for you having an effective agenda.
Hope that makes sense.
Thanks, let's come back and let's talk
about facilitation skills, very, very important.
Thanks.
(inspiring music)

--- Exercise 8: Team Formation and Organizaton ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Team Facilitation - Why It Matters! ---

(soft music)
-: Hi again, friends.
Let's talk about facilitation and resolving conflicts.
This is a really, really, really important skill
for any manager, and particularly for any manager
who leads a team of people.
Your ability to facilitate conversation, to facilitate unity
of purpose and problem solving and moving forward
by your team will largely determine your success.
Think about all the skills that you've already learned
in terms of active listening, rephrasing,
asking open-ended questions, making empathy statements.
All of those skills, there's a reason they came
before this section,
because in this section we're gonna employ
all of those skills.
Those skills are necessary.
And if you didn't practice those skills, I suggest you stop
and you go back and you do, because they are critical
to facilitation and they are critical to resolving problems.
You have to be able to employ those skills.
In this lecture, I'd just like to talk about why
facilitation matters and what it is.
To facilitate is to enable others to participate,
to enable others to make their contribution.
And if you have 10 people in the room
everybody has unique perspective,
a unique background, unique experience.
And what you're trying to do when you're
facilitating a group is you're trying
to create collective wisdom.
If you just think, there's some problem, right?
And if somehow you could get out of those 10 people
all of their knowledge and experience and ideas,
and put it in the middle of the room without any egos
attached, where it's not my idea,
I contribute my idea and I turn it over to the group.
And it becomes the groups then to shape, to mold, to change.
And out of that process of summing up the knowledge
and wisdom experience of all the members
of the group, you come out
with something that no one person could have come out with.
And that's the objective of facilitation.
That's the objective of team problem solving.
So to facilitate, facil,
the root word means to make easy
and you're trying to make it easy for others.
When you're a good facilitator
you are highly aware of how your behavior affects others.
You know how you look at people, whether you nod your head
when they're making a contribution
or whether you're going...
Your behavior facilitates
or does the opposite causes people not to participate.
Remember my story of Stew, right?
Thinking he was getting people to participate when
he was really suppressing participation.
Good facilitator is sensitive to the needs of others.
And I wanna tell you a short story
that for me is really important.
It was really important in my learning history.
And maybe you have some similar story,
but maybe this will be helpful to you.
And this goes back a long time ago,
40 years ago or so, and I was in Raleigh, North Carolina
and I was a member of a religious group.
Doesn't matter what religion it is, I won't even tell you
'cause I don't wanna distract your mind
from what's important here.
There were nine of us on the group,
and we were to make decisions.
And we were a very diverse group.
On this group, I was, a couple years out of college
there were two young women who were both getting their PhDs
their doctoral degrees in psychology.
They had lots of ideas and they would talk.
And they were high energy people.
There was another fellow who was a professor
of engineering at the university there.
And there were some other folks.
And there were two elderly,
there was an elderly couple, James and Marie Brody.
And I'll never forget James and Marie Brody.
'cause this was in the south, you know
the southern United States
in the late sixties, early seventies.
And they were both 65 to 70 years old
somewhere in that range.
And they had grown up their entire life in North Carolina
in the southern United States as African Americans.
Marie Brody cleaned homes.
She was a maid basically
and had done housework all her life.
James Brody was a cook
in a sort of a fast food restaurant thing.
They were both kind of low skill people.
And what would happen when,
I was the chairman of the group.
So my job as chairman, I wasn't like a boss
but my job was to facilitate
was to enable others to participate.
And several times, here's what happened.
I would present a agenda item, a subject
that we were to discuss and make a decision about.
And the two young psychology PhD students go,
we should do this, we can do this
we can do this, blah, blah, blah, blah.
And the professor was sort of there with 'em.
And other people, and Marie Brody
who had worked all day, by the way
this was an evening meeting.
Marie Brody would very often be sitting
with her hands folded on her lap, looking down.
Well, her eyes were closed, she'd be looking down.
And the whole, the conversation could go
on for 10 or 15 minutes.
And she wouldn't say anything.
And the fast talkers, they would've already
made a decision in their mind as to what we should do.
They were way down the road ready to go
on to the next subject.
Now, as chairperson, what, what's my job?
My job is to make it easy
for everyone to give their contribution to the discussion.
Now, the two PhD students
they didn't need a lot of help making their contribution.
They were gonna make it whether you liked it or not.
And they were gonna make it fast and quickly and loudly.
You could trust that.
Marie Brody given her cultural background
as an elderly African American who'd always been
in a subservient position as a housekeeper.
She had her eyes closed and was looking down.
And my job now was to say,
Marie how do you feel about that?
Do you have any thoughts about that?
And several times Marie would then look
up and she'd say, well, I've been thinking,
it seems to me...
And then she would go on to say something that was
from a different world on a different channel
but was profound, was a profound thought,
that the two smarty pants would've gone right by.
And that contribution would never have been made.
And that contribution
several times I remember turned the whole conversation
in another direction and led to a different solution.
But it would never have been offered
if I hadn't asked Marie, she wasn't asleep.
She wasn't asleep.
She was just in her in a different space
on a different channel, you know?
And we can't assume everybody is on the same channel.
Now, this is a story about diversity, right?
And appreciating the value of diversity
and the value of the different contributions that may exist
among the members of your group.
And when you think about your team,
and they may all look the same, they may be all
you know, white, middle-aged accountants.
God help you. That could be.
And you may say, well, they're all the same.
You know, if they have something to say,
they'll speak up.
No, they had different parents,
they had different experiences growing up,
different experiences in school
and they're not all the same.
And it's your job,
everybody doesn't have to contribute to every subject
or every decision, but it's your job to make it easy.
Pain-free for them.
And some people you must invite
or they will not participate.
I hope you can remember that story because it,
tells us a lot about what the job of facilitation is.
Thank you.
(soft music)

--- Team Facilitation Skills - 1 ---

(upbeat piano music plays)
-: Hi again, friends.
Let's talk about the skills of facilitation.
And I wanna point out, we're gonna talk
about conflict resolution after facilitation skills,
but please note, the better you are
at facilitating, the fewer conflicts you're gonna have.
In fact, differences of opinion will arise
but you won't even think of them as conflicts
if you're facilitating well.
Now sometimes conflicts are gonna arise anyway
but the better you are at facilitating,
the less likelihood you're gonna have conflicts.
If you're having a lot of conflicts,
it might be that you're not facilitating that well
but let's think about the skills of facilitating.
And as you'll see as we go through these,
a lot of them are built upon those listening skills
or communication skills that we discussed earlier.
So, so here are eight skills.
The last one is resolving conflict,
and I'll put that in a separate category
or separate lecture.
Let me spend two lectures on the first seven.
You know, the first skill is simply organizing.
And I know this seems incredibly simple
but that agenda that I shared with you is really important.
And a really good thing is for people to visualize that.
I like to have a laptop
and a projector when I'm facilitating a meeting.
It's not mandatory, but it, but it's nice
because people can see what's being written down.
They can see the agenda in front of them.
They can see their eight items on the agenda
and we've spent half the meeting on the first one.
You know, everybody can be aware of that.
If it's visually in front of them.
We respond to visual stimuli.
So that's one element of being organized.
Another element is simply reminding people where we are.
You know, clarifying where we are in the conversation.
Where we are on the agenda and it's, you know,
a very simple thing, but simply for the facilitator to say,
okay guys, you know we're on item number one
and we only have an hour and there's seven other items.
Let's, let's, shall we move on?
That's, that's good facilitation.
And it's simply clarifying in the mind
of the participants the order of things
and where we are in that.
People get frustrated when they, you know,
and it feels like committee-itis if you've heard that.
When the meeting gets disorganized
and confused and I'm not sure where we are
and we've taken so much time on this.
Have we made a decision or not?
You know, one of the most important clarifying things
that a facilitator does is
first you clarify the issue that we're talking about.
Maybe the problem that we're talking about.
You know, one thing you'll find on teams is, you know,
people love to talk.
And people will repeat each other over and over again.
You know, somebody will say it's a beautiful day outside
and another person will say, you know, compared
to yesterday, this I think tomorrow is gonna be this.
And, and then some, a third person will
and they'll elaborate on what a beautiful day it is.
I'm sort of being facetious, but whatever it is,
they'll just kinda keep restating the same thing.
And at some point, you know, it's good for the facilitator.
Okay, I think we're in agreement
that it's a nice day outside.
Let's move on to, you know, the
something more value adding in the conversation.
You know, very often, you know,
the conversation will follow a path that leads off the path.
In other words, you know, the topic may be
you know, what do we do about a certain problem?
And somebody may say, well, you know,
when I worked at this other place, we had, you know
this problem and here's what we did.
And someone else would say, oh, you worked there
did you know John so-and-so?
And someone else say, oh yeah, I knew him.
He used to, I went to school with him.
And suddenly, you know, you
the whole conversation can go off, off path, you know,
off what we're talking about.
And it's good for you, the facilitator to simply say,
guys I think we're trying to decide this, you know,
we're trying to decide what we should do about the topic.
And that just, people go, oh, yeah, yeah.
And it brings people back to the subject.
So you can waste a lot of time by
not reminding people what the topic is
that we're supposed to be deciding.
Sometimes when people offer a suggestion,
it's clear in their mind what they're saying
but it's not necessarily clear in the mind
of the other people in the room or even in your own mind.
And then it's very good
for you to reflect back what you think you heard them say
and let them clarify that.
You know you may be in a manufacturing plant
and there's a problem with people not returning tools
to where they belong, you know, where they should be.
So somebody else goes to find that tool
and it's not there and they waste a lot of time.
So that's the problem.
And someone says, well, you know,
I think only authorized people should be able to take that.
We should lock, you know,
put a lock on the closet where those things are.
And then you might clarify that by saying
so I think I hear you saying that only one
or two people should be able to access that?
And the person say, said no.
No, I think everybody on the team
should be able to access it
but I think if there's a lock on it
it will remind people to put it back in the right place.
Maybe it's not a good idea
or it is a good idea, I don't know.
But what people heard the first time
is not really what the person meant.
So restate, rephrase,
clarify what you think a person is saying.
You don't have to do it every time
but you should be sensing.
I mean, this is where, you know
the facilitator has to be a very sensitive listener
and you should be looking around
and see whether other people seem to be getting, you know
what a person is saying.
So you think about what the person is saying
and you clarify that and let them say, yeah, that's it.
Or no, that's, that's not it.
Another way to, you know, to clarify is simply to say
where do you all think we are in this discussion?
Are we talking now about the problem,
defining the problem, the causes of the problem?
Or are we talking about the solution to the problem?
And maybe we should be sure
that we know the causes of the problem before the solution.
Where do you all think we are?
And that's really helpful 'cause people say, oh yeah
we're talking about a solution
but we haven't figured out the cause of the problem yet.
Right? So just simply clarifying where the group is,
helps get the group in the same place
and moving in the same direction.
And it's even clarifying to say, you know,
I'm getting a little lost in this conversation.
Can we all sort of come back
to what the topic is and you know, where we are on that?
That's, you know, using good reflective listening also.
So, but the primary use of reflective listening
or rephrasing is to clarify, you know,
what another member of the group is saying.
I hope that makes sense.
Let's, in the next lecture
talk about some of the other skills.
(upbeat piano music plays)

--- Team Facilitation Skills 2 ---

(soft music)
-: Hi again, friends.
Let's talk about the facilitation skills
of motivating, comforting, controlling, and concluding.
And then we will go into conflict resolution,
which is sort of a bigger topic.
Believe it or not,
part of your job as a facilitator
is to motivate the members of the group to participate.
What are some of the behaviors on your part that might
either motivate or demotivate members of your group?
And they can be very subtle things.
I mean, eye contact, for example.
I mean, just looking at somebody and even just
gently nodding your head is motivating, right?
I know it may not,
it's not a big prize that you're giving them,
but in fact looking at somebody
and just going
like that versus
looking down, ignoring them.
Ignoring somebody is very demotivating.
So the simple act of paying attention
to them while they're speaking and acknowledging them,
attending to them says that you value them,
that you value their contribution.
We're all motivated by that sense
of feeling respected or valued.
And sometimes it's a little more than just acknowledging
or just looking at them and nodding your head.
Sometimes it's really helpful,
particularly for somebody who doesn't contribute
often to say that's great, thanks a lot.
That was very useful.
That kind of verbal appreciation is also motivating
or just saying Harold,
I think you have some good insights
on this subject because you have experience in this area.
What do you think?
That's motivating.
Again, acknowledging the value
of somebody is always, always motivating.
So as you look
around the room and you look at where people are,
are they engaged or are they drifting off?
Are they typing away on their laptop
on Facebook or whatever they may be on,
think about your role in bringing them
into the group, right?
In motivating them to be paying attention, to be listening.
And if you remember when you were in class,
in grade school or high school,
the fact that the teacher would suddenly
turn to you and say, Larry,
what do you think about that?
You went, "Oh, I'm supposed to be paying attention," right?
"You caught me.
I was thinking about what I was doing after school
which I probably shouldn't have been doing
in the first place,
but you motivate people by sort of holding them accountable
in the sense that you're calling on them.
So an another role of the facilitator
is to comfort people and expressing empathy.
You remember our empathy statements.
I can understand how you feel,
I can understand that might be very difficult for you.
Those kind of statements where you're expressing empathy
for the person, help people overcome emotion.
And you'll have a lot
of conversations in your team that
will really have very little emotional content.
Not much emotional heat, if you will,
but there will be times
and this sort of leads to
the conflict situation where people really
have an emotional investment in something.
We may be talking about, well, maybe we should rotate jobs,
but Bill over there has been doing the same job
for 10 years and he doesn't wanna rotate.
He's comfortable in the job
and he doesn't wanna have to learn a new job.
And he says, I don't wanna do this.
Just leave me alone.
I know how to do my job.
And then,
what you're sensing from him is difficulty.
I mean, this is difficult for him.
So you can say something that is empathetic.
You can say, Bill, I understand that
you really are great at doing your job.
I mean, you really do know how to do your job
and we all appreciate that,
but it would be helpful for the team
if we sort of moved on where we're able to rotate jobs.
And just, I'm not saying he's gonna suddenly agree with you,
but the fact that you have understood.
Remember, everybody is right through their eyes,
from where they sit.
So from where he sit, he hasn't said something wrong.
He said something right.
Given his history, his life.
So empathizing with that,
appreciating that then makes it easier for him to move on
and go along with what may be a group decision.
Sometimes when there's emotional temperature in the room,
where people sort of get hot about things,
it's worth just sort of stopping.
And particularly if there're two people,
this sort of gets into the conflict resolution.
But if there are two people who have opposing views,
it's a good idea to sort of take the conversation away
from the two of them for a moment
and say to the rest of the group,
guys how are the rest of you feeling about this?
And then a third, fourth,
fifth person can make their contribution.
It can cool down and you're creating comfort in the group.
And that will help each
of the two individuals be more comfortable.
There's a time to play cop.
I don't know how else to put it,
but you are the leader of the group.
You are the the manager of this team, I'm assuming.
And sometimes the team needs to know where
their boundaries are.
And sometimes you will need to say,
"Hey guys, I think we're talking
about something that we can't do anything about.
This really is a matter
that has to be decided at a different level.
So let's just kind of move
on to a different topic.
Now you're not asking them
for their opinion about that, right?
You're not trying to engage them.
You're actually trying to disengage them
by saying that's sort of an out of bounds discussion.
You may not use the phrase out of bounds,
but you may say, I think, we need to move
on from that 'cause it's something we can't control.
Or it may be just a time element
and you say, "Hey, guys,
I'm looking at the clock and we're running out of time,
so let's make a decision on this now
or let's decide to put it off to our next meeting."
Again, that's sort of, you're controlling,
you're playing playing cop.
And generally,
there may be some time when this isn't true,
but I found 95% of the time people appreciate that,
that they appreciate you doing that,
when in fact it's right, when in fact we need to move on.
We are running out of time.
Or in fact, that's something that we cannot decide.
So a final thing that you do is concluding,
and this may be one of the most useful facilitation skills
and it sounds almost silly,
but we have to bring things to a conclusion.
You can call this summarizing also.
And in every meeting there's a time when
there is this natural tendency to just keep
talking about things.
And your job as the facilitator is to bring
the conversation, whether it's on a topic
or the whole meeting to a conclusion by saying,
guys, let me summarize what where I think we are.
Let me summarize the decisions I think we've made
or let me conclude this topic.
I think we've all gotten to the same point.
I think we have a consensus.
I think we're agreeing that we should boom and people will
oh yeah, I think we are in agreement with that.
So let's make that decision and let's move on.
Or you may say, let's make that decision and let's decide.
Now let's go to action planning.
Let's decide who's gonna do what to whom when.
That's that action planning step that's on your agenda.
Remember your agenda with the second page,
your action register.
That's a way of concluding the conversation.
These things are really important
because they make meetings efficient.
Meetings aren't efficient because people don't talk.
Meetings aren't efficient just 'cause of a timeline.
Meetings are efficient because you use mental energy well
and you don't waste time, you don't waste words,
you don't waste mental energy.
That's part of your job as as a facilitator.
So I hope those first seven facilitation skills
are are helpful to you.
Let's go now and talk about maybe the harder part
of conflict resolution, why we have conflicts
and what we can do about it.
Thanks.
(soft music)

--- The Enron Story and the Abilene Paradox ---

(upbeat music)
-: I wanna share a quick story with you about Enron
and what Jerry Harvey called the Abilene paradox.
And I think it's a really important lesson
for a group facilitator or for a whole team
or anybody who's on a team.
The Enron Corporation, and I forget the years now,
but if you go back and study Enron,
one year, according to Fortune Magazine,
it was the world's most admired company.
The board of directors of Enron
was considered the most admired board of directors.
On the board were only two insiders,
total of 14 members, 12 of them outsiders.
And on the board, there were presidents
of mutual fund companies, presidents of insurance companies.
There were people, there was a professor
who was the dean of a business school
and had written accounting books.
He had been an accounting professor.
This board really knew finance.
They really knew accounting.
They were a really good board of directors
by any objective measure or understanding
of what a board of director should be.
A year later, Enron declared bankruptcy.
And you say, "How the devil does that happen?"
Well, Jeffrey Sonnenfeld, professor at Yale University,
studied the Enron case and particularly the board.
And here's what he found.
They would go to board meetings
and they would be given financial statements
and they would all look at them and the CEO
and the chief financial officer would explain
how great everything was,
how well things were going.
And they would read them and they would look
around the room and nobody else was questioning them.
So I might, you know,
let's say I was the accounting professor.
I might've had questions about what was on the books
and what was off the books
and where was debt and some questions
that are really important.
But because nobody else was asking,
nobody else saw any problem.
I sort of said, "Well, guess it must be okay."
It wasn't okay.
They were not asking probing questions.
They were acquiescing and they were not inquiring.
And because they acquiesced and they didn't inquire,
they didn't drill down, they didn't probe,
even though they had questions in their mind,
they went along with what looked like
would be approved by the group.
There was group think going on at the Enron board
and it destroyed the corporation.
Jerry Harvey was a professor at Washington University
and he wrote a book called The "Abilene Paradox."
I recommend it highly.
He wrote another book that very few people have read,
but I think it's a great book.
And the title of the book is,
"How Come Every Time I Get Stabbed in the Back,
My Fingerprints Are On The Knife."
Good title, right?
Good book, too.
But back to the Abilene paradox (laughs)
The Abilene paradox goes something like this.
Jerry Harvey tells the story.
He grew up in Coleman, Texas,
down the road from Abilene, about 40 minutes down the road.
And this was in the 1950s.
And he was a little boy sitting on the front porch.
There was no air conditioning.
It was August.
And then in Abilene or Coleman, Texas,
it's really hot in August, okay?
And little Jerry Harvey,
ma, pa, and grandma are sitting
on the front porch, fanning themselves.
And someone says, "What's for dinner?"
And ma says, "Well, you know, there's this restaurant
down in Abilene that's really,"
and pa says, "Okay, come on.
Let's get in the car.
Let's drive to Abilene."
And they have no air conditioning in the car
and they're on the road to Abilene.
And the phrase on the road to Abilene
has become a important phrase.
They're on the road to Abilene
with the windows rolled down, dust is blowing.
And halfway to Abilene, ma says to pa,
"Why the hell are you dragging us to Abilene?"
And pa says, "I ain't dragging you to Abilene.
You wanted to go to Abilene."
She says, "No, I didn't.
I didn't wanna go to Abilene.
You wanted to go to Ab-"
And suddenly, nobody in the car
really wanted to go to Abilene,
but they're all in the car on the road to Abilene.
And the question is,
how do a group of people get on the road
to Abilene when none of 'em really wanna go there?
Jerry Harvey, as he tells the story,
he's sitting in his office at the university,
he's a psychologist,
and this young woman comes in, student,
and she looks depressed.
And he says, being the sensitive person that he is,
he says to her, "Pray tell, why are you depressed?"
And she says, "Well, you'd be depressed too
if next Sunday you were marrying somebody you don't love."
And he says, "Well, why are you marrying somebody
you don't love?"
And she says, "Well, it was a moment of passion.
And I couldn't say no.
And he told his parents, and they called my parents
and they all started planning the wedding.
And if I backed out now, I would break all their hearts.
I just can't do it."
The next day he is in his office.
This young man comes in, he looks depressed
and he says, "Pray tell, why are you depressed?"
And he says, "Well, you'd be depressed too
if next Sunday you were marrying somebody you don't love."
And he says, "Oh, well,
why are you marrying somebody you don't love?"
And he says, "Well, it was a moment of passion.
And I couldn't say no.
And, you know, I told my parents
and they called her parent and I couldn't back out now.
It'd break our heart.
It would break their hearts."
They're in the bus.
They're all on the road to Abilene.
Both families are on the road to Abilene.
And I won't bore you with any more story,
but Jerry Harvey goes on to tell a whole bunch
of stories about corporate boards like Enron.
He doesn't tell that 'cause it happened afterwards.
But there are lots of stories
of people being on the road to Abilene.
Now the question is, is your team on the road to Abilene?
Are you on a team that's on the road to Abilene, right?
Well, you wanna make sure
that you're not like that Enron board,
that you're facilitating the group
and participating in the group in a way
where you are absolutely frank and honest
and you don't get on the road to Abilene.
You don't acquiesce, you inquire.
It's never wrong to ask questions.
It's never wrong to probe.
And I believe that as a member of a team,
you have a moral obligation.
Yes, use the word moral.
Your job on any team is to help
that team achieve its goals and perform well
in a way that satisfies the needs
of all the team members.
If you have knowledge that you're not sharing
or you have questions that you are not sharing
with the team, you are cheating your team.
Don't cheat your team.
Don't acquiesce.
Your job is to be absolutely frank and honest
with your team and share your knowledge,
share your ideas, alternative courses of action.
Ask the questions and don't get in that bus.
Don't be on the road to Abilene.
I hope that's helpful.
Thanks a lot.
(upbeat music)

--- Clarifying Decision Styles ---

(light guitar music)
-: Hi, friends.
I'd like to talk about decision making styles.
And this is very important
because it's important for you to know
how you are making decisions
and it's important for you to know
what decisions you're engaging your team in making.
And it's important
for your team members to know how decisions get made
because when they don't or when you don't,
when there's that lack of clarity,
that tends to lead to frustration
and that frustration may sound like,
how come you made that decision?
I thought we were all gonna make that decision together.
Not fair.
That's frustrating, right?
It may also lead to a wasted time, wasted energy.
I've been waiting for you to make that decision
or aren't we gonna meet as a team and make that decision?
And you're thinking, no, actually,
that's the decision you should make.
So clarifying decision making
is just a really important part of being a leader
or manager of a team.
So let's talk about different decision making styles,
and let's talk about when they're used
and how you can decide who makes decisions
and how they make them.
An easy way to think about it,
and it's good
if you look at different historical context
for decision making, command, consultative, and consensus,
the three C's of decision making.
Now, what's a command decision making?
Well, if you've been in the military,
you know what a command decision making is.
I'm the sergeant and you're not, right?
And we're marching that way.
Any questions?
Let's go.
That's command,
command decision making is any time decision making
resides within one person.
Now, we tend to think of that as up, right?
The commander, the lieutenant,
the general, you know, whatever, up.
But it's also true that at the first level of employees,
there are command decisions,
decisions that an individual should be making on their own.
For example, I'm an operator of this piece of equipment
and suddenly the equipment starts spitting oil out.
Now I could shut it down or I could wait for a team meeting.
What do you think?
Uh-uh, shut it down.
You know, that employee should know
that they are authorized,
and in fact it's their job to make a command decision
to shut that equipment down when it is malfunctioning,
or spitting oil,
or doing whatever it shouldn't be doing, right?
So you empower people with command decisions
as you may also empower them
by involving them in consultative
or consensus type decisions.
Now, you know, some people think well,
command decision, that's the military, that's old style.
You know, we are a liberal, modern, progressive,
team-based organization.
So we don't want to use command decision making, do we?
Yes, you do.
And here's why.
The building is burning down.
We smell smoke.
We probably should get out of the building, right?
But I'm a consensus team kind of guy.
So what I'm gonna do is get my team together
and I'm gonna ask them to brainstorm
all the different ways we could get out of the building.
And then we're gonna do sort of a pros and cons
of their different ideas
and sort of analyze the pros and cons,
and then we'll all vote on what the best way
to get out of the building is.
What do you think about that?
Not a good idea?
You think maybe it would be better
that the person who knows where the exits are stands up
and in a loud commanding voice says, guys,
everybody to the exits, that's the exit.
Let's go, double time, right?
There is a time when command decision
is simply the most effective way to make decisions
and those times tend to be crisis decisions
or times when one person has true expertise
and other people in the room do not.
The brain surgeon operating on your brain,
hopefully, that brain surgeon has more knowledge
about how to cut into the brain,
do whatever he's doing in the brain than the nurses around
or the anesthesiologist or people doing other tasks, right?
So a brain surgeon tends to be pretty commanding
because he or she has superior knowledge.
So rightly you expect them to be sole decision makers
or individual decision makers.
I hope that makes sense.
We will come back to that in a little bit.
Consultative decision.
Here's a consultative decision.
Now, in a consultative decision,
I may have the authority to make the decision,
but I don't have all knowledge.
I don't know all the options.
So I'm gonna go talk to people
and let's just take a case
where I'm the president of this company
and I get a phone call from a customer
and we delivered the wrong stuff to them
and they really need the right stuff
and they need it quickly.
What am I gonna say to 'em?
Am I gonna say to the customer, well, you know, let's see,
in two weeks we have a team meeting.
I'll put it on the agenda.
Uh-uh, you're not gonna do that.
Not if you want to keep that customer, right?
What you're gonna say to that customer
or what I would say to that customer is, I'm really sorry,
I don't know how that happened
but I can promise you we're gonna fix it
and we'll fix it fast.
Let me go talk to the folks involved
and I'll get back to you within the hour
and tell you how we're gonna fix it.
And the customer will probably say, okay, fine.
Now who was involved in that?
Who knows how to fix it?
Not me.
I don't know what happened and I don't know how to fix it.
So I'm gonna go down to the shipping department
and I'm gonna ask the manager of the shipping department,
maybe somebody else, whoever I need to talk to,
but I'm gonna talk to them quickly.
I'm gonna engage them, I'm gonna involve them,
but I'm not turning the decision over, right?
I'm just getting, I'm consulting,
I'm consulting with people who have knowledge
and who have to act, who knows, who cares, who acts.
Think about those three questions.
They're always pretty good questions to ask
when thinking about who should make a decision.
So I've consulted with them.
Now I'm gonna call the customer back and say,
look, I'm really sorry.
Here's what happened and here's how we're gonna fix it.
You'll get it first thing in the morning,
we're shipping it out, Federal Express or however,
and that will probably satisfy the customer.
Now, that's consultative.
Consensus, what is true consensus decision making?
A true consensus decision is one
where I am willing to give up the decision to the team.
I'm not gonna make the decision.
You know, when I say to my team, guys,
we need to make a decision about blank, blank, blank.
And I'd like this to be a consensus decision.
What the team just heard
is that they now are gonna own the decision.
They're gonna make it as a group,
and Larry Miller or the team leader
is going to be willing to go along
and don't do that unless you are willing
to go along with what the group decides, right?
Because if you go through a consensus reaching process
and the team says, we want to turn left,
and you're saying, eh, it's a wrong answer,
I want to turn right.
Well, you've just wasted their time
and they're gonna be upset about that.
Don't do that.
You first decide, I'm gonna give this decision to the team,
I'm gonna make a consensus.
Now, why would I do that?
Why would I give up?
Why?
Because now the way people are engaged mentally
in the decision making is different
than when you just consult with them.
They're feeling ownership,
they learned to feel ownership
and they therefore are gonna put more mental energy into it.
And when they make a decision,
they are gonna be more committed to that decision
because they made it, they own that decision.
So here's a little diagram
that I think is helpful to illustrate along the bottom,
you'll see command, consultative, and consensus,
and you see time and costs.
Okay, now, the fastest decision making style clearly
and why in the military
when you're marching troops into battle,
you have to be able to make decisions very quickly
and you have to have uniform response.
If I say, you know, march and we're gonna march left,
you can't have somebody going, nah, I'd rather march right.
No, no, no, no, no.
We all, that's not how we play the game.
We all march together in a uniform manner.
And when the order is given, we march quickly.
You know, we execute it deliberately.
Now that's command decision making.
And that's very efficient.
It's very efficient if you in fact know what you're doing,
which is why the brain surgeon
has to make decisions quickly, right?
He has superior knowledge and everybody else needs to do it.
They need to do, given the decision
that the brain surgeon has just made, okay.
So speed, right
now there's not that much diversity of input.
If you look at the bottom line
that sweeps up to the right,
that's diversity of input, commitment, and ownership, right?
Well, you don't have as much diversity of input.
You may not have as much commitment
because nobody else was involved in making the decision,
not as much ownership for it,
although they may still carry it out in a disciplined way.
Now, when you move from consultative,
and over to command decision, what happens?
There's higher costs, it takes more time.
You know, consensus decision making is not speedy.
You have to take the time to go around the room
and think through what's the best decision?
What's the problem?
How are we gonna solve it?
What's the action plan?
All that is consensus reaching.
And you have to decide which decisions
are worth the cost of consensus decision making,
long-term things, how we do our work, our strategy,
if you're a senior management team
should be a consensus decision.
You're gonna take the time
to get everybody really engaged in that,
because that's for a senior management team,
that's how we do our work,
it's what work we're doing, why we're doing it.
You know, you want the best thinking,
you want the most commitment from that.
So you want the most ownership,
you want the most engagement,
and then you're gonna move to the right on this diagram.
I hope that makes sense.
And it's a easy way to think about it.
And again, here's sort of quick decision criteria
for any decision.
Think, who knows?
You wanna involve the people who know, right?
Who cares?
If people really care about something,
it's probably good that they're involved in decision.
If they don't give a hoot about it, don't waste their time,
don't involve them.
Who must act,
it's always better if somebody has to carry out a decision
that they were involved in making the decision,
they'll be more committed,
they'll carry it out in a more prompt and a better way.
When must it be made?
How quickly do we have to make the decision?
You know, those four criteria,
you can kinda just think about the command,
consultative, and consensus.
You can see how that will guide you.
Now this diagram just sort of points
to what's the distribution of decision making
in our organization?
And the reality is that,
if you really looked at all the decisions
that get made in any company,
the reality is that most of them are consultative decisions.
They're not, most of 'em are not somebody
sitting in their office going, do this, do that.
And that's not how most managers make decisions.
No.
Most managers will go listen to other people,
but it's sort of an informal thing.
You know, they'll go down to somebody's office
and ask people what they think.
They may call somebody in,
they may over the water cooler,
they may get two people together
or over coffee in the cafeteria,
they may get two or three people together
and say, what do you think about this?
And what do you think about that?
And they're engaging people in an informal,
unstructured way.
They're consulting.
And that's why the distribution curve here,
the bell-shaped curve,
you have the highest number of decisions
being made in the consultative area.
The fewest number of decisions are crisis decisions.
You should not have a lot of crises, okay?
But command decisions
tend to be those brain surgeon decisions
or military-like decisions,
building burning down decisions
when we have to make decisions quickly.
And then because of the cost of consensus decision making,
we don't spend all our days and weeks
making consensus decisions.
We need to be selective
in what decisions we spend the resources on
to make consensus decisions,
and those tend to be the longer term ones over on the right.
I hope that helps you think about how you
and your team make decisions.
Thanks.
Let me come back
and I just wanna talk quickly about how you reach consensus.
Thanks.
(light guitar music)

--- How To Gain Consensus ---

(bright upbeat music)
-: Hi folks. I'd just like to take a minute
to talk about how to reach a consensus.
And I found that some teams
do this very easily, quickly, and naturally.
And there's some teams and team leaders who struggle
with how to reach consensus with their group.
And it doesn't have to be that hard.
Some people make it hard,
but it doesn't have to be that hard.
And let me suggest to you
that there there are two ways
of thinking about that word, a theory of consensus.
And I've run into consultants from academia,
who think about consensus in an academic way.
And when trying to apply that in a business setting,
that can be somewhat of a disaster.
And their thought about consensus is,
everybody must reach agreement.
Everybody has to get their,
and we have to talk about it.
Whatever the decision is,
we have to talk about it
until everybody has the same understanding,
and everybody agrees that decision A,
versus decision decision B, is the right decision.
And until then, we can't say we have consensus.
Now, in the academic world, that may make sense.
It's a good definition of consensus.
But I live in the business world.
And in the business world,
there's an economy involved.
We can't take forever to make decisions.
Even consensus decisions.
There has to be judgment involved.
And, we have to use what I will call practical consensus.
And I wanna define practical consensus,
and give you a way to get there.
Practical consensus is when first,
we've shared the decision, the problem,
we've shared all the facts,
everybody understands the facts,
everybody has an opportunity to inquire,
to ask questions, right?
Then we share alternatives.
Everybody gives their ideas
about different courses of action that we might take.
Everybody's had an opportunity to argue a case
for one or the other.
We've considered the pros and cons.
And everybody's voiced their opinion,
as to which way we should go.
Now, if you're lucky, everybody comes out,
saying we should go left and not right, great.
But what if we have a group of 10,
and seven say we should turn left,
and three more say no, we should turn right.
What do you do?
Do we have consensus?
Well, here's what we have to do then.
The first thing we have to do,
is we have to ask the three, why.
Tell us what you see as a problem
with turning left, versus turning right,
or whatever the decision is.
And maybe they have a reason
to have a different view that's valid,
and needs to be heard by the other people.
So they express that view.
And the other seven people say, "We understand."
Now they might change their mind, and that's fine.
But more likely they'll say,
"You know, we understand.
We did understand that,
but we still think turning left
is the right way, and here's why."
And the three who said,
"No, we think we should turn right."
They've expressed their view,
and they've heard the view of the seven.
And now, "Does anybody want to change their opinion?"
Now, here's the two critical elements
of reaching practical consensus are,
we have to be absolutely frank and honest
in sharing our ideas,
sharing what we think is right or wrong, or so forth.
But then the second,
and this is the critical ingredient
that is often lacking.
And this is the basis of democracy, by the way.
We have to be willing to sacrifice.
We have to be willing to say,
"That's not what I think is the best decision,
but I'm willing to go with the group."
Right. "And I'm willing to support
what the group decision is,
as if it were my own decision.
I'm gonna support it enthusiastically.
The moment I can do that,
then we'll have consensus."
We'll have what I call "practical consensus."
And yes, there's the element of sacrifice.
There's the element of absolute honesty and frankness,
there's the element of listening, respect,
and then there's their willingness to sacrifice.
And if you think about how democracy should work,
that's how they should work, right?
When we go through an election,
or we we're voting for a bill in Congress,
or the parliament, you know,
we voice our opinions, we're absolutely honest,
we make our case.
But then once we vote,
we have to be willing to,
to go along with the group,
and support it, and hope it works, right?
But you'll never know if it works,
if you don't support it.
If people undermine it, by their lack of support,
that's not good.
That's not good team play, right?
When a football team goes out,
and, you know, in the huddle,
somebody may say, "Hey, I'm open."
You know, "Pass the ball to me over here."
The quarterback may say, you know,
"Well thanks for telling me,
but instead, we're going to run this other play."
Now the the wide receiver who wanted to catch the ball,
he has to be willing to say,
"I'm a team player."
You know, "I go with how the play was called."
So I hope that that makes sense.
And here are just sort of some criteria,
or even steps in reaching consensus,
clarifying the issue,
making sure all facts are on the table,
making sure everybody's informed,
everybody's given the opportunity to speak.
And respectfully, they are heard.
All opinions are considered equitably,
meaning with equal voice.
We don't just view the opinions as being greater merit,
because somebody's more senior,
or somebody has higher rank.
The pros and cons are weighed,
and then there's that willingness to sacrifice.
Now, let me just share a very, very, very practical thing.
I was working with a youth group in Europe,
and they'd have these great,
long meetings where they would discuss things,
and they had a lot of trouble reaching consensus.
And I, and we were in a meeting room,
and I said, "Look, guys, let's put up on a flip chart,
you know, the ops, and the alternatives.
And we'd we'd list maybe 10 possible courses of action.
And then we, I taught them
what sort of jokingly became known
as the famous Larry Miller dot method.
And we had magic markers, right?
And I say, "Okay, everybody in the room,
you get three dots."
Get out of your seats,
take the magic marker, don't cheat.
You can only have three dots.
And by the, let's say the 10, or 20 possible items,
put your three favorites.
Put dots by the three items
that you think are the best decisions,
or the best courses of action,
whatever it is you're trying to reach consensus on.
And it, you know, it takes 10 minutes, they do that.
It's a good exercise, 'cause they get the blood flowing,
they get out of their seat.
And then, you know, when you look at all the dots,
it usually becomes apparent
that there are one, two, or three
favored courses of action.
So, and now sometimes you can do
more than one course of action, right?
So maybe we eliminate all
but the top three vote getters in there.
And then we do it again.
And we say, "Okay, now everybody, you only get one dot."
And you do it again,
and you come out with one
that gets the highest vote, and you say,
"Okay, is everybody willing to go along with that?"
And having gone through the exercise,
and everybody having had their say,
when people have had their say,
and they've been heard,
they're usually willing to go along.
So you do that, you have consensus,
and it can be, it can be very quick.
And it's a sort of a practical way of getting there.
I hope that's helpful to you.
Thanks a lot.
(bright upbeat music)

--- Principles of Conflict Resolution ---

(soothing music)
-: Hi again, folks.
Let's talk about the hard stuff.
Inevitably, you will have conflict within your team,
among team members, maybe one of your team members and you,
or maybe you and another manager.
It's just inevitable, even if you do everything really,
really well that we've discussed previously.
And I hope you can see that all the listening skills,
the empathy statements, and reflective listening,
all of that stuff leads to effective conflict resolution.
And if you facilitate your team well, you engage them well.
They're less likely, doesn't mean they never will,
but they're less likely to have conflict within the team.
But let's think about getting good at resolving conflicts
when they do occur, because I think it's almost inevitable
that you will have conflicts.
In this lecture, I'd like to talk about
some principles of conflict resolution.
And these are good for you to think about as you confront
a conflict and deal with a conflict.
These principles may also be useful
for you to share with those who are in conflict.
So you can think about how to use them in different ways.
In the next lecture, I'm gonna give
you a model of conflict resolution,
sort of steps, you know to go through.
And then in the following lectures,
I want to talk about the nature of conversation,
the culture of conversation, dialogue
and debate among your team members,
and how you can seek to create an effective culture
where people really listen to each other,
and that, again, is likely to reduce or resolve conflicts.
So here are some principles.
Here are nine principles that make sense to me.
I hope they make sense to you.
First of all, it's really useful to understand
that from whatever, wherever
people are in their perspective,
whatever their position is, they are right.
Yes, everybody is right.
I know that sort of sounds absurd.
But given their life experience,
given their experience in the workplace,
given what matters to them, given what they have learned,
what has paid off for them in the past, right,
what's gotten reinforced in the past,
given all their history, their position is correct.
Now, the other person and the other person may be you,
but the other person is also correct,
given their glasses that they're looking through,
which is their life experience
and the learning that they have gone through.
So the key to conflict resolution
is not to decide who's right and wrong.
You know, you have to get out of that mentality
of being a referee and saying he's out or he is not out.
No, that's not the game of conflict resolution.
The game of conflict resolution is to understand
that everybody's right, given their background,
and to help each party, which may be you
and the other person, understand the other person,
listen to the other other person,
have empathy for the other person,
and then try to reach a mutually agreeable solution,
which will only come if you first have that empathy,
if you first have that understanding
between the two parties.
So first, keep in mind that everybody's right,
given their history.
Avoid false dichotomies.
What are false dichotomies?
A dichotomy is black and white, left and right,
liberal and conservative in our political world, right.
And we have a bad habit of approaching a conflict
or a problem and taking a left or right,
black or white position, which is often false,
because often the truth is some combination
of ideas that is not necessarily left or right,
liberal or conservative, whatever the dichotomy is.
So watch, when you see a conflict,
think about whether or not the two parties
are falling into false dichotomies.
Often when you hear a conflict,
somebody has a conflict with you, it is very often the case
that their presenting position is not the real problem.
They're presenting what they're able to articulate,
they're presenting what they feel.
But your job as a conflict resolver, a mediator,
or a facilitator, your job is to go below the presenting
position to understanding what the real concern is.
And that requires your listening skills,
your empathy, reflecting, and all those things
that you you know how to do well now.
When people have a conflict, their immediate,
and it's sort of an animal impulse, It's our lower nature.
Our impulse is to prove that I'm right and you are wrong.
We want to win.
You know, we've been brought up seeking to win
and not be a loser, right.
I don't want to be a loser, I want to be a winner.
So we dig in and we go into argument.
You are wrong because, I'm right because.
Don't dig in, don't allow people to dig in.
Help them understand,
and you try to understand what their viewpoint is,
what their position is, and help them understand
the other person's viewpoint and position.
And don't engage in argument.
You know, listen for the sound of argument,
and try to change that conversation to,
what we'll talk about later is dialogue rather than debate,
where we're actually listening and learning
from each other rather than trying to win an argument.
Don't use exaggerated statements.
You know who's the worst at this
is spouses, husbands and wives.
You never pick up your socks.
You never clean the bathroom.
Yes, I did, you know, last October, I cleaned the bathroom.
We tend to try to win an argument or make our point by using
escalated, exaggerated statements.
Well, do those help resolve a conflict?
No, they actually create more conflict,
'cause then the other person becomes defensive,
and the other person says, you're wrong.
And in fact, you never.
I always.
Whenever somebody says always or never
in a conflict situation, they're wrong.
Okay, 'cause always and never are never correct,
if that makes sense.
So when you hear that, try to say never,
you know, he never does that?
John, is that right, do you never do that?
He says, yeah, it's only on Thursdays I don't do it.
Or whatever, so.
Avoid exaggerated statements.
When you are trying to mediate or resolve a conflict,
you are trying to be a unifier.
And what you want to do is seek points of unity.
And the points of unity are larger purpose.
You know, look guys, what are we both
really trying to accomplish?
What is our unified purpose?
You know, it's a little bit like,
we had an election here in the United States,
and you had very polarized positions.
And there was a lot of you never and I always, you know,
those kinds of dichotomous statements and positions.
But once that's over, you step back and you say,
wait a minute, what is our common purpose?
What is our common objective?
What can we be unified around?
And inevitably there are things
that we can and we should be unified around,
and we come together on those things.
And that's true in the workplace too.
If two team members are in conflict,
hey guys, let's back up and say
what is our real purpose here?
What are we both trying to achieve?
And as team members, we're both trying to achieve
doing well for our customer, isn't that right?
That is right, it should be right, that should be right.
And let's talk about how we can,
given this situation that we're in conflict over,
let's talk about what would best serve the customer.
Let's come together on that.
And out of that unifying process,
a solution very often comes.
Focus on where we're going, not where we have been,
and where we're going is that common purpose.
We can spend a lot of time in argument
about who did what, when, why, all in the past.
And almost none of that is gonna solve the problem.
What's gonna solve the problem is talking about the future,
talking about where we're going,
and what we need to do in the future.
Remember what Dr. Demming said,
that 95% of problems are in the process, not the person.
We tend to blame the person and not fix the process.
So as you're listening to a conflict,
ask yourself is the problem really here the person
or is the problem the process, the process of work,
the process we're engaged in.
And if you think about that, and you can help them,
the two parties, think about let's not focus on the person,
let's think about the process,
let's think about how to improve how we do things
so this isn't a problem in the future.
Hope that makes sense.
Look for win-wins.
You want to come out of any conflict situation
with mutual benefit, with mutual gain for both parties.
It's never a good conflict resolution to say, John,
you're the winner, and Sam, you're the loser.
You know, no, 'cause that will come back inevitably.
Think about how both parties, how the team
can be a winner in whatever that situation is.
I hope those nine principles make make sense to you.
Let's go on and let's just look at sort of a more
specific process to go through when resolving conflicts.
Thanks.
(soothing music)

--- A Model of Conflict Resolution ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi again, friends.
Let go through a simple seven step process,
which you see here for resolving conflicts,
and, you know, when you have your next conflict,
you might even write these seven steps down
or print them out and have them in front of you
and think about them as you go through trying
to resolve the conflict.
The principles, the nine principles that we talked
about in the previous lecture are all embedded
in these steps.
And all your listening skills are embedded in these steps.
So step number one, find agreement.
You have your two parties there who are in disagreement.
And let's first define the problem.
Let's agree on what the problem is,
'cause very often, people don't see the problem
as the same problem.
They're actually arguing over something
that, in their minds, you know, it's like wars.
I was in a war.
I found that both participants in the war,
they're fighting different wars.
They're not fighting the same war.
So it's really helpful to understand
what war they're fighting.
You know, what is the problem as they see it?
When you think about how the two parties
see the conflict that they're in,
they may actually not be
in the same conflict, right?
Like two participants
in a war may not really be fighting the same war.
They have different ideas about why they're there.
So if you can understand what the problem is
from each perspective, and then
what are they in agreement about?
Now, they're probably both in agreement
that we wanna perform well.
We're both in agreement
with that we want the team to do well.
We're both in agreement that we want to serve
our customers well.
We're both in agreement
that we want improve the process, for example.
My guess is you can find agreement between the two parties
and that's always a good place to start.
Clarify exactly what the disagreement is.
And here's where you're gonna use
your reflective listening skills.
You're gonna listen to each person explain
what they see as the disagreement
or the conflict, the problem.
Let them hear each other, right?
Or if you're part of it, you're explaining how you see it
and then you're listening well
to how the other person sees that.
And you can't solve a problem
unless you understand what the disagreement is about.
So use your good listening skills.
Express empathy.
Now, I can't explain this, you know, well,
'cause there's sort of a magic,
there's sort of a chemistry
and expressing empathy is like oiling the gears, right?
When you understand my point of view,
when you understand my problem,
when you understand why I'm concerned
and not just understanding it factually,
but understanding how it feels,
understanding why it is a problem for me, why I'm concerned,
why I am hurt, you know, whatever the situation is,
the simple act of understanding my feelings
and my position relaxes me.
You know, very often people will argue harder and louder,
not because of the actual problem,
but because they just don't feel
like you're listening to me.
You're not understanding me.
So I sort of escalate the problem.
I escalate my tone of voice, my volume.
You know, how loud I am, until I hear you say
I can understand why that's a problem.
I can understand that's painful for you.
I can understand that that's frustrating for you.
Those statements, you know,
are very powerful part of conflict resolution.
Once you have understood why people feel the way they do
and what their positions are,
and what we're in agreement with,
now let's sort of be creative.
Let's kind of brainstorm alternatives, right?
Let's think about, you know, let's make a list
of the three, five, 10 possible solutions
that are not necessarily yours or yours, but are others.
You know, let's think about other solutions to the problem.
And when we sort of brainstorm different solutions
to a problem, we seek alternatives,
we may find an alternative we both agree
with and we can abandon our previous positions.
That's very, very common.
So just the act of brainstorming alternatives to get
to our shared goal where we both want to get to,
that helps to resolve a conflict.
Let's agree on criteria for a solution.
Does it have to be immediate?
Can it be long-term solution?
Does it just involve the two of us
or does it need to involve 10 other people?
You know, what are the criteria
for what a good solution to this conflict would look like?
Then try combining ideas.
You know, and again,
this sort of gets away from the false dichotomy idea.
Very often you can take the solution that one person has
and the solution that another person has and combine them.
They're not always either/or, right?
You know, I consulted with the school board
of an elementary school that my children were going
to some years ago, and they had a conflict,
you know, half of the staff of the school
and the board felt that the core purpose
of the school was to create a love
of learning in the children.
There was another camp that said, well, yeah, that's great,
but they have to be able to pass tests,
'cause if they're gonna go now to public high school
or another high school, they're gonna be tested.
And they have to know some math,
they have to know some history.
They have to know stuff, right,
'cause love of learning is not on a test,
you know, math is on a test.
And they had sort of created these camps
where they really felt like we had to choose
whether our core mission was to create love
of learning or knowledge.
And it was like a big battle in the school.
It may sound silly to you, but it wasn't silly to them.
And I just drew this, you know, matrix, you know,
being the management consultant that I am,
with love of learning on one side
and knowledge on the other side and said,
is it possible to go northeast?
Increasing love of learning,
at the same time increasing knowledge?
And I know that seems like a similar idea,
but for them it was a big breakthrough.
It was like, oh yeah, maybe we can figure out
how to teach in a way and conduct our classrooms
in a way where they are actually learning some math,
but doing it in a way that's fun.
And they're learning to love learning as opposed
to just learning to love math or learning math.
Any of that made sense?
So try combining, eliminating false dichotomies.
Be creative with new possible solutions.
Now you can fulfill your criteria with some combination
of the previous ideas that have been floated.
And then, you know, you reach consensus,
you ask those who are engaged in the conflict.
Can you both agree that we'll try the following?
And it's very good.
And this is sort of consistent with lean management.
Toyota production system.
Problem solving.
Every solution is an experiment, okay?
So we don't have to agree that a course
of action is the ultimate final end state course of action.
Let's agree to try this
and see what happens, see if it works.
And then let's come back
and let's try, you know, try something else,
modify it or agree that we just keep doing that.
So it's very, very helpful
in terms of reaching consensus to understand
that what we're really trying to agree on is a consensus
to move forward with an experiment.
And people are more likely to accept that than thinking
that this is the one final solution to a problem.
So I hope those seven steps make sense.
Try them out next time you have a conflict
and see how they work for you.
Thanks a lot.
(upbeat music)

--- Conflict Resolution: Debate or Dialogue? ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi again, friends, I wanna share a model of conversation
and I hope this will help you create healthy conversation
within your group, within your team.
And I hope it will help you overcome conflict
and avoid conflict on your team.
Let me suggest to you
that there are three Ds of conversation,
three types of conversations that go on among people.
One kind of conversation is debate.
And if you look at this diagram,
at the bottom, and it's intentionally at the bottom,
there are two corners that are you and me.
I wanna win, you wanna win, I have my position.
Think about an actual debate.
Think about whether you were in a high school debate club
or you've ever watched a debate, presidential debate,
any kind of debate.
When you go into a debate,
you prepare before the debate,
and you've prepared to prove that your position is right.
You know what your position is when you go into a debate,
you know that you're gonna argue for a position,
and the other person,
you know they're gonna argue against your position
and for their position.
So we're sort of cemented in our corners.
And in a debate, it's like an argument, right?
I am set out to prove that I am right,
I'm not trying to learn from you,
I'm not trying to adapt your ideas,
I'm trying to make you adapt mine,
or make the judges understand that my position
is the best position, that's a debate.
A discussion is a less owned, less engaged,
we're not so far into our corners,
we're somewhere in the middle,
where we're just thinking about what to do
and sharing information and so forth,
but we're not really acting as one,
we're not really unified,
but we're listening to each other to a degree, right?
We're having a healthy discussion.
Then at the top of the pyramid is what is called dialogue.
Now, we're never gonna always be in a state of dialogue,
but when we have an important matter to discuss on our team,
it is useful to try to engage in dialogue.
And in dialogue, we're thinking together,
we're trying to create a unified mind.
We're acting as we, I have given up my ego.
When you go into a debate in your position,
your ego is attached, you don't wanna be a loser,
you wanna be a winner, so your ego is attached,
as is the other person.
And that almost prevents learning,
prevents coming up with shared solution.
The degree to which we are focused on the team,
we, rather than my position,
we are then able to engage in dialogue.
And if you look at this, the purpose of conversation,
there's sort of a hierarchy,
where at the bottom is winning,
then you can sort of go to, well,
I'm just trying to convince, maybe lecturing,
teaching, sharing, trying to gain understanding,
really trying to learn from each other.
And then serving,
if you're really in a state of dialogue,
you don't care about what's for me, or winning,
ego is detached,
and you're really trying to achieve an outcome
that is a service leadership, a servant position,
of serving the group, serving the we,
it's truly a shared purpose that we're focused on.
And when we're in that mental state,
we're able to get to a place in terms of solving problems,
creating unity of the group that we're never able to achieve
if we're stuck in our corners.
So think about the nature of conversation.
And in the next lecture,
I wanna go through some behavioral characteristics,
how do we behave when we're in a debate culture
versus how do we behave when we're in a dialogue culture?
And I'm gonna ask you some questions about that,
and you can actually create a score.
You can see where you think your group is.
Hope that helps, thanks.
(upbeat music)

--- Conflict Resolution: Behavioral Characteristics of Debate or Dialogue ---

(easygoing music)
-: Hi again, friends.
Let's talk about the specific things people do,
the specific behaviors that people engage in
that tend to make a conversation
either a dialogue or a debate.
And what I would like you to do, and this is optional,
but as I go through the six different options
in terms of type A,
or let's say red zone behavior and blue zone behavior,
why don't you rate yourself
or rate your team on a scale of 1 to 10?
And then there's six characteristics.
So there's a possible 60 points.
And why don't you just sort of, as a game,
it's not a serious evaluation,
but just sort of to help you think about it,
think about how your team tends to behave.
And are you on the red zone
or the blue zone end of the continuum?
So this diagram,
and I admit that this is just a little bit confusing,
but (chuckles) let me explain it for a second.
And then with some other diagrams,
I'll break it down and make it more simple.
But in the blue zone, in the dialogue area of conversation,
I've identified six different behaviors:
effective listening, inquiring, suspending judgment,
if you're watching, you know, around the circle,
the virtuous cycle I call it on top
and a vicious cycle on the bottom.
But four, many possibilities,
unifying appreciation and diverse input.
And then there are the opposites of those
in terms of rather than listening, just trying to convince,
acquiescing, rather than inquiring,
speed of judgment versus suspending judgment,
one right way versus considering many possibilities,
dismissive categorizing of people
rather than unifying appreciation
and uniform input versus having diverse input.
And those things also tend to feed on each other
and form a vicious circle.
And that tends to be a closed system,
meaning closed to new input and ideas
and just sort of feeding on itself
which is never a good thing in any system
versus an open system that is constantly learning, growing,
modifying based on diverse input and so forth.
So that's what this diagram is meant
to illustrate is those two, you know,
extremes and the two types of behavior
being either the debate or the dialogue.
Now, let's break them down.
And I'm gonna ask you two questions in each of these
and in each of those two questions, you can, you know,
rate yourself on a scale, actually on a, excuse me,
on a scale of one to five and that will add up to 10.
'cause I have two questions.
Sorry to confuse.
I have two questions under each category
or each type of behavior.
And for each of them, like,
do the members of your team listen deeply,
seeking to understand the story of others?
One to five, do you think?
And then the second, you know,
this is under listening versus convincing, right?
Do you feel that you display the ability to listen
and understand the story behind the words of others?
So you've got a total of 10 points there.
Give yourself, you know,
whatever percent of that that you think.
But this is one of the sort of the most important
distinctions between behavior that is
truly dialogue versus is truly debate.
In debate, I don't really care what you think. (chuckles)
I'm not trying to learn from you,
so I don't have to listen to you.
I'm trying to argue with you
to convince you that my position is right.
Second, and we talked about this when we talked
about the Abilene paradox and the Enron situation,
inquiring versus acquiescing, right?
Just acquiescing is just giving in.
And we tend to acquiesce to power.
You know, when we believe that somebody has power over us
and they're willing to exercise that power over us,
we tend to say, yes, sir, you know? (chuckles)
We tend to acquiesce rather than honestly asking questions,
inquiring or sharing our views, and that is dangerous.
That can lead to that Abilene paradox.
So the two questions here are,
do members of your team ask questions to understand
why other team members have the feelings they express?
That's inquiring, right?
Why do you feel that way? Tell me what's behind that idea.
Do you feel free to ask questions
of those in power positions
rather than merely accepting
their explanation without question?
That's always a dangerous thing.
So again, give yourself, you know,
possible five points on each question
or a total of 10 points for that.
Suspending judgment versus speed of judgment.
You know, there's sort of a military model, macho, you know,
idea that he who makes decisions quickly
somehow is more knowledgeable (chuckles) and more powerful.
In reality, in the knowledge world that we live in,
that is a dangerous thing
and that's a component of the debate culture.
But in the dialogue culture, dialogue conversation,
what's really important is not speed of judgment
but it's being willing to suspend judgment,
being willing to go into a conversation saying,
"I don't know how this is gonna come out.
and it very well may come out different than I thought."
That really makes you open to other people's ideas, right?
Where if you're quick to judge, you know,
you tend to pretend that you know answers
that you don't really know.
So when your team is meeting
and considering an important matter,
are members willing to suspend judgment
rather than quickly taking a position?
Is your group willing to allow a period of silence
when members think deeply about a matter?
Remember when we went through listening skills?
Silence...
You know, sometimes it's good to think.
It's just good to be quiet and think,
or you can call it meditating on something
without jumping to conclusions.
Okay, four,
one right way versus open to alternatives.
Again, in debate, you know, I know the right answer,
and there's one right way to do it,
and I'm gonna convince you that that's the one right way.
Well, that blocks off learning, doesn't it?
I mean, you can't be in a learning mode
or a serving others mode,
if you remember the top of the pyramid of dialogue,
if you think you know the one right answer.
In a dialogue culture,
we're open to many possibilities,
and it's, you know, sort of an essential
of conflict resolution, isn't it?
That we may consider
that there are really three good things we can do,
not one good thing we can do.
And we're open to all those alternatives
and experimenting with them.
So five, unifying appreciation
versus dismissive categorizing.
Dismissive categorizing is a very common thing
in the current culture, and I'll say
not knowing your culture, I don't know where you're from,
but in the current American culture.
You know, we are very quick to label people as,
"Oh, he's a liberal. All you liberals think that.
Or (chuckles) she's a conservative, you know how they are.
They all think that."
And you sort of put it in a box and you close the box
and you can send it off.
You can dismiss it, right?
That's why we use categorizing,
to be able to quickly dismiss things.
Now, we do it in the business world too.
We say, "He's an accountant.
You know, what do you expect?
You know how those accountants are," (laughs)
or all you accountants or all you salespeople,
blank, blank, blank, fill in. (chuckles)
You know, we do this categorizing thing
and it's a form of intellectual laziness.
'cause once we categorize people,
we think they know what they mean.
We think they know what their idea's about,
and we can easily dismiss it
because you know how all those salespeople are. (chuckles)
It really blocks learning by that categorizing
versus when you appreciate the diversity of ideas
and the diversity of people,
you learn from them and you incorporate their ideas.
And that leads to healthy problem solving.
So the two questions are, members of our team
tend to appreciate the value of different points of view,
rather than dismissing them or it.
When members of my team offer their views,
I do not categorize them
based on who is offering their opinion.
In other words, I don't dismiss them
because they're young or they're old, or they're a man
or a woman or an engineer versus a salesperson, whatever.
Okay, six, uniform input versus diverse input.
I think every decision making process
benefits from diversity of input.
So you want diverse people on your team.
You want people who are younger and older.
You want people who are experienced
with different skills, different perspectives,
perhaps different cultural backgrounds.
All that enriches the decision making process,
helps us reach consensus and reduces our tendency to engage
in conflict or debate, right?
So our team considers opinions offered
without judging those ideas based on the background
of the person offering them, that sort of lack of prejudice.
Right? And that means, so one to five on that.
Our team is very diverse and we listen equally to all,
again, one to five on that.
So, okay, so if you've added up your score on that,
and feel free to do this with your whole team.
You know, you can go through this.
You show your whole team this video if you want
and let them do it on their own
and then add up the score and average it for the whole team.
Just be an interesting exercise
to sense the feelings of your team members
in terms of the kind of conversations they have.
And that will make them more sensitive to those things.
They'll recognize dismissive, categorizing, you know,
for example, when they see it, if they understand that.
I hope that's helpful.
It's another way of looking at conflict resolution
and another way of looking at the team process.
Thanks.
(easygoing music)
(upbeat music)

--- Exercise 9: Conflict Resolution ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Developing Your Team Scorecard ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi, friends.
Welcome back.
I want to talk about scorekeeping,
visual display, setting objectives, goals,
all those things around numbers in the workplace, right?
That's what scorekeeping is about,
and that's what visual display is about,
and what objective setting, goal setting are all about.
Now, remember our three circles,
and you might say, well, where are we on those?
We've covered the people,
we've done a lot in terms of developing the team,
and we're moving into the process section.
But the reality is, this is sort of
in the overlap because when you create scorekeeping,
of course you're doing that with your team.
I want you to engage your team
in deciding what their score board, scorecards,
visual display should be.
But what are you keeping score on?
I mean, you're not keeping score on the weather.
You're keeping score on the work process, on the workflow,
the output of the work, the cycle time of the work,
the defects that occur in the work process.
So scorekeeping and objective setting should all be
about the work process as well.
So we're sort of in that, you know,
overlap period between the two circles of team and process.
And, of course, everything we learned
about managing people all fits in there too, right?
Now, you remember when we talked about team formation,
we said that teams should be formed around a process.
Teams should know what their process is,
they should know what process they own,
and they should be focused on improving that process.
And you cannot improve the process
unless you know how the process is performing,
which means scorekeeping, of course.
So we wanna engage in continuous improvement, right?
We wanna move up the mountain,
our little mountain climber here, moving up the mountain.
And we're working on how people behave,
the culture of the organization, human performance.
But at the same time, we're monitoring the data,
we're monitoring the trends in the data,
and we're setting targets.
The targets we're setting are numerical targets
to improve process performance.
And that's what we should be keeping score on.
Team scores should be integrated vertically
from top to bottom.
And this is, you know, a basic of objective setting.
You don't set objectives
or decide on performance independent
of everybody else in the organization.
I mean, just imagine, for example,
that your process feeds another process
and receives stuff from a supplying process.
Well, what if, for example,
you could double the rate of your process?
Can you just do that by yourself as a team?
No, you can't.
'Cause it has to go somewhere, right?
And wherever it has to go, they have to want it, right?
They have to be able to accept
and process the rate or the amount
of stuff that you're putting out of your process.
And similarly, on the other side, you have to be able
to get the supply that will enable you
to double your process.
So to the left and right
on the supply chain where your process sits,
scores have to be integrated.
Objectives have to be integrated.
And so that's really the purpose
of higher levels of management.
They should be doing that integrating.
They should be helping to help you set goals
but also be assured that those goals are aligned
with suppliers and customers on either side.
Now, let's just think about scorecards for a second
from a detached standpoint.
Have you ever been to a sport,
a team sport where there was no scoreboard?
Ever been to a soccer game,
football game, baseball game, basketball game
and there was no scoreboard?
Why do you think it is that there's always a scoreboard?
Why do you think you've never been to a sport
and not seen a scoreboard?
And the reason is that, you know,
this is just sort of Darwinian selection process, right?
If there was no scorecard, no scoreboard,
the sport would've died a long time ago.
Similarly, in your business,
if you're not good at keeping score, your business will die.
It will become extinct.
Like, whatever ideas people had for a sport
that we're not doing anymore, they didn't do a good job
of motivating people, both players and fans,
observers, they weren't motivated
'cause there was no scorekeeping.
Scorekeeping is always visual, isn't it?
I mean, there's a big scoreboard
and there are bright lights that go on, right?
And as soon as there is a score, as soon as a player,
you know, shoots the ball through the hoop,
or whatever the sport is, the scoreboard changes.
There's an immediacy of feedback.
And because that's,
because we understand the feedback effect.
The motivational elements
of scorekeeping are all about feedback and something,
and there's a lot of research on this
by behavioral psychologists, by the way, the rate
of feedback, the frequency, how often feedback occurs,
the degree to which it is big, bright, and visible,
the degree to which it's immediate after the performance,
and the degree to which it is positive versus negative.
You notice the scoreboard never has.
And if you, interesting game to play just with yourself.
Sit down and watch a football game
or a basketball game with a piece of paper.
And every time you hear the announcers mention a score,
write that down in a left hand column,
the kind of score, you know, number of shots taken, number
of shots through the hoop, percent of shots made, et cetera.
You know, in the course of a basketball game,
football game, or baseball game,
you may hear 25 to 50 different scores, right?
And then ask yourself,
was that score a positive score or a negative score?
You know, I used to be president
of a company that was owned by Fran Tarkenton,
a NFL quarterback.
And he was the original scrambler.
He was famous for running to the sidelines
and avoiding being tackled.
He was very good at that.
And at a certain point in time,
he had all the records for the most number of touchdowns,
most yards passed, most passes, all those things.
And he always made a point of saying, you know,
nobody keeps score of the number
of times I ran off the field to the sidelines.
You never hear that score.
You never hear the number
of times I threw the ball out of bounds.
You never hear that.
But he probably held the record for those things too, right?
Well, why don't we hear those things?
The reason we don't hear those things
is because we're motivated by the positive.
We want to hear the positive scores.
So when you think about your scores,
think about positive scores
and your scores will generally follow your SIPOC.
You remember that, and you remember the feedback effect
that we talked about when we talked
about the supplier, input process, output customer.
That's where the feedback comes from.
And that's where you should be giving feedback, right?
Now, visual display, let's just look at this for a second.
I'll just show you a, you know, a long series of displays.
I don't know what the display should look like
in your work area.
'Cause I don't know what your work area looks like.
I don't know what people do,
and I don't know what are appropriate scores
for your people.
That's all for you to figure out.
What I do know is it should be big, it should be bright,
it should be fun, it should record records.
You see the little red ribbons there?
Well, that's like, hey, we set a record, right?
It should always have the baseline data,
and then it should have, we try something different.
An intervention, as we would call it,
in behavioral psychology.
And then we see whether it goes up
or goes down and we learn from that, right?
That's the planning, plan to check,
experimenting, learning process.
You may also have a fishbone diagram,
and this is something called CEDAC cause and effect diagrams
with the addition of cards.
And what you can do is you can work
on solving a problem over time, not just in one meeting,
but maybe over a month or two months.
And you put up on a board, maybe in the hallway
or someplace where everybody can see it.
You put up a big fishbone diagram, and a fishbone diagram,
as you may know, has the problem.
And, you know, what is the problem?
How come shipping doesn't happen on time or whatever.
And then causes, right?
And they may be machine, they may be manpower,
they may be methods, they may be information.
You pick, you know, pick five or six,
we'll talk about this more later in problem solving,
by the way.
But you pick five or six major causes
and then you have little, you know,
shoots, little branches off the big limbs.
And you can have two kinds of cards.
You can have, like,
let's say red cards for where the problem occurs.
And people can be thinking about, well,
what problems occur in methods and materials and so forth.
And they can be thinking about solutions,
which can be a yellow card
or a blue card or some other color card, right?
And they can post them, you know, on the display.
And the nice thing about that is, you know,
we respond to things we see.
If we don't see it, if it's in your computer
or in your drawer, on your desk, forget about it.
People aren't gonna be thinking about it.
They're not gonna be worrying about it.
But if you want people thinking about solving a problem,
visualize it, visualize the problem
and visualize the opportunity to think about causes
and solutions, right?
So we have our, you should on your scoreboard,
your visual display,
have the two to eight, somewhere in that range,
probably four or five is
about optimum key performance indicators for your team.
And you and your team have to decide what they are.
And we'll talk about that in a minute.
Here are just, you know,
take a look at some visual displays.
This one was actually in a plant
where the entire plant was on a bonus system,
managers, and salaried
and hourly people were on the same bonus system.
And they picked, like, six measures at the beginning
of the year that they would base it on.
They used the balance scorecard methodology
that I'll talk about in the next lecture.
And this was in the cafeteria,
and it visualized exactly where they were
in their earning of their bonus.
So everybody in the plant knew where they were
in earning their bonus and everybody else
as they went through the years visually displayed.
Here's another.
This was in a healthcare organization
where each team, there are like three teams displayed here.
Each team, you know, saw there, you know,
about six or seven key data variables.
This is just one of them.
And here are other visual displays.
And, you know, you can go
on the internet if you just want to, you know,
some inspiration, and just put in "visual display,"
put in, you know, "visual factory."
That's another term that you can Google
and see what comes up.
So, okay, I hope I've sold you on having visual display.
I haven't told you exactly how to do it.
You're gonna have to figure that out
for yourself given your work area.
But put it in an area where everybody can see it.
You want to pick, you know,
four or five key performance indicators,
and we want them to be a balanced scorecard.
And let me come back in the next lecture
and talk about the advantages
of a balanced scorecard and what that might look like.
Thanks.
(upbeat music)

--- The Balanced Scorecard ---

(bright upbeat music)
(bright upbeat music continues)
-: Okay, let's talk about a Balanced Scorecard.
Now, this idea has become very popular
in business for a good reason.
Kaplan and Norton wrote a book called,
"The Balanced Scorecard."
You can get that if you wanna dig into it deeply,
but it's not a complicated thing.
And they didn't prescribe exactly
what your scoreboard should be
because they don't know your work.
Just like, I don't know your work,
but the idea, let me give you the basic idea
and then suggest a way to go
about creating a balanced scorecard.
This really got started with two problems.
One problem is there were companies
that all they looked at was money.
All they looked at was finances.
And everything that they cared about,
the only measures that were important
in their minds were financial measures,
and quality declined, and productivity may have declined.
They were so busy.
If you only focus on financial measures,
what you tend to do is cut cost.
Well, if all you do is cut cost, you're gonna hurt quality,
and you're gonna hurt your customer satisfaction.
No, you have to be focused not just on finances,
although you do have to be focused on finances,
but you also have to be focused
on customer satisfaction and quality.
So the idea of a balanced scorecard,
and by the way, there was also
a big productivity movement back in the eighties,
I guess, there was American Productivity Center
and lots of books on productivity improvement.
And again, if everybody's just focused on, you know,
productivity is the ratio of input to output, okay?
Input of costs and output in terms of dollars
and widgets or a number of cars produced per person hour,
that's a productivity measure.
Or a number of cars produced per amount of space.
That's another productivity measure.
Different ways of computing productivity,
but it's always a ratio, right?
Well, that's good.
That's an important way of measuring performance,
but it doesn't necessarily produce quality.
It doesn't necessarily produce customer satisfaction, right?
So the idea of a balanced scorecard was literally
to have a balance of measures that equal total performance,
and that's what you want.
You want total performance.
Just a funny thing if you're interested,
go on YouTube and look up, "I Love Lucy."
If you remember, "I Love Lucy,"
you'll see on YouTube, a really funny skit.
Anyway, Lucy and her friend go decide to get a real job
as opposed to just being housewives,
and they get a job in a chocolate factory. (chuckles)
And the supervisor, all she cares about obviously,
is the speed of the line.
And she's speeding up the line,
and they're hiding the candies.
And it's just a sort of a humorous example
of what happens if you only focus on one measure.
So here's a balanced scorecard.
This is a sort of a normal, if you will,
balanced scorecard model.
In the middle, there's the idea of what is our strategy?
What are we really trying to achieve in the long term?
And then there are usually four quadrants
of the balanced scorecard, four components.
One, being customer satisfaction, quality.
Customer satisfaction and quality go together.
Another is measure of our business process, our workflow.
We'll come back and talk about that.
Financial measures and then learning,
and the development of our people.
If you're focused on learning and development,
you'll tend to improve the others.
If you're focused on the others,
but not thinking about learning and development,
in the long term, you're gonna trouble succeeding
in the others.
So I want you to consult
with your team on the balanced scorecard,
and I want you to explain the four elements.
You can put up a visual of those four elements.
And I would like you to consult with the team
on what they think are good measures
that fall into each of those categories.
And let's just go through each
of them in a little more depth.
You know, customer or client satisfaction.
How do we know?
And just think.
Ask yourself, when was the time you knew
that your customers were delighted,
when they were really happy?
How did they know to be happy?
What was it that made them happy?
Was it different specifications that they got in the,
was it how you delivered it?
Was it in the human interaction?
That's very often the case, how you serve them.
Maybe that's it.
And maybe, there's something we can measure there.
Think about all the reasons why they may
be either happy or unhappy.
And if you don't know, ask them.
They will tell you. (chuckles)
It's always the best way to know what leads
to customer satisfaction is to ask the customer.
So why don't you try that and think about
how you might measure that.
We're gonna talk much more
about our process and how to improve our process,
but first, we have to measure it.
We know we have that input, output, SIPOC, right?
You got that.
And now there's cycle time, time through the flow
from the time stuff comes in to the time stuff goes out.
That's cycle time.
Reliability. How reliable are we
in producing the product consistently?
You know, that's reliability.
Variability, reducing variability.
We'll talk about variability more later,
but we should be looking at our graph.
We should be graphing all data,
and we should look at that variability.
And when does it vary?
You know, why does it vary?
That is usually consistent
with what your customers
might think is reliable performance.
Productivity, we've talked about that.
You know, every process can be measured in terms
of its productivity, the amount of people,
the amount of space, the amount of money divided
by the output, right?
That's productivity.
Variability. I talked about that.
How does the process vary and when does it vary?
How many improvements do we make in the process?
How often do we improve the process?
That's innovation.
That's a form of innovation.
There's innovation in both product or service,
and then there's an innovation
in producing it or delivering it, right?
Process innovation. Product and process innovation.
When you think about the whole Toyota production system,
lean management business, it's all about process.
It's not product. It's about innovation
and making continuous improvements
in how we do things, right?
So you can measure that.
You can say, how many improvements have we made
in the last week, month, year?
When you think about process measures,
when you think about the flow,
there are end of process measures.
You know, things coming out the other end.
There's feedback from the customer
that can tell you about your process.
There's behavior within the process.
And you can look at each process step, right?
And say, what's the result of that process step?
And can you measure the result of a single process step?
If you have eight people working in a team
and there's a flow around a work cell,
you can measure each function
on the work cell by the output to the next station,
if you understand what that means.
That's what each of those little arrows represent.
So think about all the different process measures.
Financial results. You're not a manager,
unless you know the financial numbers.
You may think you're a manager,
but you're not really a manager,
unless you know the financial numbers.
Revenue, costs, and return on assets.
You employ assets. What's the return on those assets?
It's your job to increase return on assets.
It's your job to hold down cost,
get the most you can done with the least cost.
And it's your job, for most managers,
to increase revenue or at least not reduce revenue, right?
So you and your team, whether those are,
it's a very simplistic way of looking at it,
but I want you to think about with your team
what financial measures you can keep score of.
And then learning and development.
You know, I worked with a Merck plant,
and they were all going through my team leadership course.
And the number of units of the course completed times
the total number of managers who were all going through it.
That was a measure
of learning development that they employed.
But you can think of other demonstrating skills,
demonstrating knowledge, going through learning courses,
how many people are multi-skilled?
If you have a team where there are eight different functions
on the team, if you look at each person,
certainly, they can do one function, I hope. (chuckles)
But how many other functions can they do?
Well, in the ideal world,
the answer would be eight times eight, right?
But you're probably not there.
You're probably not at the point where every employee
on the team can do every job.
But that's a measure of multi-skilled on a team,
so think about that.
And here's just a real quick process
for establishing a balanced scorecard.
Define the measures,
establish baseline data for each measure,
graph the baseline data.
You're going to, oh, then set targets, right?
Now set measurable, but reasonable targets.
You don't set a target for a whole year.
You set a target for this month, right?
Short-term targets. We're gonna walk up the staircase,
and we're gonna go through a plan, do, check, act.
We'll talk about that very shortly.
We're gonna go use problem-solving methods to improve
from the baseline, but you can't really improve,
unless you know what the baseline is.
You won't know what you're doing, right?
So get your baseline data.
We're gonna engage in problem-solving with your team.
Then you're gonna evaluate the results,
and you're gonna celebrate success.
That's basic use of the balanced scorecard.
I hope that makes sense.
I know, it's not complicated.
Don't make it complicated.
Don't take too much time with it.
Accept the fact that whatever the scorecard
you come up with is your best idea today.
Everything's an experiment.
Everything we do in management is an experiment,
and you'll improve it over time.
You and your team will improve it over time.
(bright upbeat music)
Hope that works.
Thanks a lot.
(bright upbeat music continues)
(bright upbeat music fades)

--- Targets, Goals and Objectives ---

(cheerful music)
-: Hi, friends.
I'd like to talk in this session
about goal setting, setting targets,
objective setting, MBO,
all those things of setting expectation and accountability.
And this is an old story in management,
and we've learned a lot about it over the years.
Now, some people just reject the idea
of setting goals and objectives completely,
and some people think it's just a very simple process
of give 'em an objective and hold 'em accountable.
Life should be so simple, right?
It's not.
It's a little more complicated than that,
but there is no question
that setting targets, goals, or objectives
is an absolutely essential part of managing others,
and more importantly, managing yourself.
We all respond to goal setting.
You know, when I was a young man,
I began to read for some reason
books about young men becoming successful,
the Horatio Alger stories.
Still probably pretty great stories,
and they're all the rags to riches stories.
And then W. Clement Stone and Dale Carnegie,
and other luminaries of the motivation field.
And what they all had in common
was the idea of some usually young man, some poor young man,
finding a model, finding somebody that they said,
"Wow, if only someday I could be like that,"
and creating a goal, an image in their mind,
and setting out to climb the mountain, if you will.
They had a goal, but they also had the ability
to go through baby steps,
to look at what they had to do in the short term
and overcome that sequence of goals that got you there.
Now, that's a universal process.
We all should be doing that in our lives.
I think everybody should have a big dream,
and it doesn't have to be materialistic.
It doesn't have to be to have the big house on the hill.
It can be something more spiritual,
something of a higher value or more purposeful, if you want.
And there's nothing wrong
with having several different big dreams,
but the important thing is that we operationalize the dream,
that we break that dream down into behavior,
into things we're gonna do today and tomorrow and next week,
and we walk towards the mountain.
We gotta climb the mountain.
You can't dream about
getting to the top of the mountain,
and not do anything.
It's all about the doing that gets you there.
And it's right to have a goal, a big goal,
but it's also right to break that down
and start doing the baby steps to get you there.
You know, when I was beginning my career,
and I just, more by accident than anything else,
I moved from my prison work
into management consulting training
with Fran Tarkenton and Aubrey Daniels.
And I said to myself, "I wanna be somebody in this field."
And I said, "Who makes it?
You know, who really is somebody in this field?
What do they do?"
And I saw they basically, I thought they did two things.
You know, one, they're good speakers.
You know, they're good on the platform.
So I began to study people who were good speakers,
from Martin Luther King to John Kennedy to you name it,
motivational speakers or management speakers,
and I listened to that.
I listened to their tone of voice.
I listened to the stories they told.
I looked at how they used their hands, you know?
And I tried to emulate them,
and I think I gradually became a better and better speaker.
The other thing they did was they wrote.
You know, they published books.
There were books with their name on it,
so I set out to write books,
and in the middle of the mid 1970s,
I began writing my first book.
And let me just tell you a story about that,
'cause I think it's instructive.
You know, I didn't have a PhD, okay?
I don't have a PhD.
I didn't have a master's degree.
I had a bachelor's degree,
and I was working in a company
with a bunch of PhDs in the field,
and I said, "I need to write the book."
I need to write the book on applying what we were doing,
behavior modification applied to business and industry.
So I just set about doing it.
It was kind of out of my own stupidity,
I set about doing it.
And it wasn't easy.
You know, this was the days of the IBM Selectric typewriter
and carbon paper.
There were no word processing programs.
And I did it,
and I made a graph, I made a chart, visual display, okay?
I made a graph, and I put it on the wall,
and just arbitrarily, I said 400 pages, and I made a line,
and I said, in 18 months.
So I did 18 months across the bottom,
and 400 pages from bottom to top, and drew a line,
and I said, beginning today,
I'm gonna be at or above that line.
And I put it on the wall,
and everybody in the organization knew what I was doing.
They saw it, they understood it.
They said, "Good for you.
Go for it."
And I remember one day, it was a cumulative graph,
so it couldn't go down, but it could go flat.
Going flat is bad.
It meant you're not doing anything, right?
No more...
You'd only produce 100 pages,
and for three months, nothing happened.
Your line went flat.
So I remember one day, that's where it was.
You know, I was sort of failing.
I wasn't moving the line up.
And I remember one of the consultants coming into my office,
and didn't say a word, went over to the graph, looked at it.
Turned around, and walked out.
And I thought, "--, that's no good.
I'm gonna..."
The next weekend, I was in there, boom, boom, boom,
typing away, trying to make that happen.
Now, so what's the lesson of that?
The lesson in that whole sequence
is first the dream of being somebody
and figuring out what it is that somebody does
who is somebody in the field,
then setting about the task of writing the book
or whatever it may be in your field,
and setting a goal that others know about,
because other people hold you accountable.
Not like they're gonna punish you,
but just the fact that they know
you're trying to achieve that goal
creates an accountability cycle,
and visual display,
putting it up on the wall where others can see,
honestly, it makes you feel bad when you're not succeeding,
and feeling bad when you're not succeeding is a good thing.
It's not a bad thing, right?
But of course,
then you also feel good when you are succeeding,
and then there is not just the intrinsic desire
and the intrinsic reinforcement of doing it,
but there's the social recognition by other people
who see that you're succeeding or not.
So that worked for me.
Oh, and by the way, I decided to reward myself,
and I'd always been a sports car guy
from when I was in high school.
I went to races, sports car races with my dad and so forth.
And now was the time.
Now was the time, and I said,
"Okay, if I get this book published,
I'm gonna by myself an Alpha Romeo Spider,
a red Alpha Romeo, you know, like the graduate Spider."
And I put a picture of it up on the top.
And sure enough, the book got published
by John Wiley &amp; Sons, a very respectable publisher,
and sure enough, I bought myself the Alpha Romeo,
and that whole sequence
was sufficiently reinforcing, strengthening my behavior
that I've now written really more than 10 books.
I say 10 books,
but it's actually kind of more than that, since,
and that's been sort of a foundation of my career.
Now, I'm not telling you to be like me.
I'm sure you can be much better than me,
but think about the elements of self-control,
self-motivation, self-direction,
and employing social reinforcement, visual display.
It's all there.
(gentle music)

--- MBO & Self-Control ---

(bright music)
-: I wanna go back to this whole thing
of management by objectives.
And if you've been part of the quality movement,
you know that Dr.Deming
railed against management by objectives.
I mean, one of his 14 points was to eliminate
management by objectives.
Now, he was half right, he was not all right about this.
And the reason he was so opposed to management by objectives
was because of how he saw it had been employed
and frankly, -- in corporations.
Hold that thought.
Now I wanna go back to 1954 before you were born probably,
go back to 1954 and a book was published
by then a young professor named Peter Drucker
called The Practice of Management.
And there was a chapter in the practice of management
that really was the root
of the whole management by objectives thing.
And do you know what the title of that chapter was?
It was Management by Objectives and Self-Control.
Management by Objectives and Self-Control, very important.
Peter Drucker's original conception of MBO,
Management by Objectives was that people
would set objectives and it would impose on themself
a form of self-control.
Now I want you to think Saturday morning
you're going golfing and you go, you know,
you've played this course before.
And if you don't play golf,
actually I don't play golf either.
But just think about the metaphor,
think about the example and apply it to whatever you do do.
But at Saturday morning, you're going to play on this course
that you've played before.
And you know the best you've ever shot
on this course was 95,
took you 95 shots to go around the 18 holes.
Probably on average, maybe a hundred.
But let's just say your best round ever was 95.
Saturday morning, you go to put the ball down on the tee
to tee off.
What are you thinking?
What do you say to yourself?
You say to yourself, I'm gonna beat 95.
I'm gonna do it 94, 93, 92, something like that.
Nobody, nobody says knowing that their best score was 95,
you know, today I'm gonna shoot 105.
Does anybody do that?
Nobody does that.
There is something innate in us
that when we know our performance
we try to beat it, we try to do better.
And that's objective setting.
We're setting an objective for ourself, right?
And that's the game.
I mean, the game is to beat the goal that we set,
to beat our own performance, to do better
than we've done before.
We love doing that.
And it doesn't matter whether it's golf
or playing the guitar or tennis
or anything else, running, anything else you may do.
Now, I want you to imagine we're about to put
the ball down on the tee and there's a guy over on the side,
he's not on the green, he's sort of off the green.
And he says, ah, Larry, today I want you to shoot a 92.
Let me know how it goes.
What, you want me to shoot a 92?
Who are you?
Come on.
It's my supervisor.
This just became work.
The fun of the game just got destroyed and it got destroyed
because I'm not setting the objective myself.
It's not management by objectives and self-control.
Now it's management by objectives
and somebody else trying to control me.
And the feeling of that and the motivation that's produced
by that is completely different.
If you understand that,
you understand effective setting objectives
and effective setting objectives is to engage somebody
or the team with the data in understanding the data
and understanding how they're currently performing
and saying, what do you think we can do?
How can we do it better?
What target should we set?
And have the team set the target for improvement.
And they will set a target for improvement.
Now, you may think it's not high enough, that's okay.
Let them achieve that target
and then go around the cycle again,
it's like the plan to check act cycle.
Say, okay, now what do you think you can do?
And they'll set a higher target.
This is what human beings do
when there is not fear of being punished.
If there's fear of being punished
they'll set a low target to guarantee themselves success.
It's an insurance policy.
But if there's no fear, but there is positive recognition,
if there's the game of success being played
they will set a higher target.
Does that make sense?
And put it on the wall, visualize it.
See the graph, goal line, baseline performance, goal line.
I had a story, early in my career working in textile mills
of Mary, Mary was performing at 35%
standard operating efficiency,
supervisor wanted to fire her.
And we said to the supervisor, does she know?
Does she know?
Does she have the feedback
and has she set a goal to do better?
And he said, nah, she can't,
she's always performed that way.
We said, well, look, make a graph.
Show her her 35%, the baseline,
and ask her what she can do
and maybe give her some coaching tips
as to how she could do it better, faster.
Tried it.
Guess what?
She set a goal of like 40 or 45%, I don't remember,
something like that.
And a week later, you know what she was doing?
40, 45%.
Standard operating efficiency.
Supervisor went back, we talked to supervisor.
Catch someone doing something good today.
Praise her.
I know it's not the a hundred percent you want
but she's praised the fact
that she's moving in the right direction, okay?
Praise her.
Say that's great.
And then ask her what she thinks she can do.
And you know, what she's gonna do?
Gonna set a higher target.
And to make a long story short,
just by that simple process of engaging Mary,
asking her, showing her the facts, the data,
praising her for improvement,
120% standard operating efficiency.
True story.
Now, everybody can't do that, no.
But everybody can improve when they're given the facts,
it's visualized, they receive positive reinforcement,
they're not under the threat of fear
and they set the target.
They're feeling that self-control.
It's their game.
That all works.
So these are, you know,
just some of the key elements of effective goal setting
whether in your own life or whether in the life
of a team in the workplace.
The same applies.
Big dream, set targets that are baby steps, you know,
moving up, make sure it's self-control, engage them,
gain commitment from them,
visualize it so there is social reinforcement,
just like I did with my book writing behavior.
Reward Yourself.
Maybe you're not gonna buy a Red Alpha Romeo
but something you know for short term targets.
You know, pizza Friday, you know,
if we get to our goal line.
And go through the plan, do check act,
make this a cyclical process of improvement.
Reflect on the process.
In your own life, you know,
I think an annual
strategy session with yourself is a good idea,
where you sit back and you say
what have I accomplished in the last year?
How have I grown or not?
What's working in my own self-development?
And in the next year, what's my goal for the next year?
You know, the beginning of the year is just a,
you know, a good thing, you can do it anytime, of course,
but the beginning of the year when you're sort of meditating
on what happened in the last year
and what's gonna happen in the next year
is a good time to go through that reflection.
And if you go through that every year
and you plan every year,
you'll move up the ladder.
You'll be Horatio Alger if you will,
going from rags to riches to success.
I hope that all makes sense to you, thanks a lot.
(bright music)

--- Exercise 10: Keeping Score and Goal Setting ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Attitudes of Problem Solving ---

(bright music)
-: Hi again, friends.
This lecture begins the section on problem solving,
and I want to talk about some of the basics
and attitudes of problem solving during this lecture,
and then we're gonna go on
and talk about three different methods of problem solving,
none of which are terribly complicated or difficult.
But they are a discipline,
and I want you to practice the methods of problem solving,
so you develop the habits,
so you develop the disciplines of problem solving.
Now, it used to be in the old days
maybe before you can remember,
that if an employee said, "I have a problem,"
or, "There is a problem,"
it was like there's a hurricane, there's a storm,
there's a crime, you know, something bad has happened.
And I wanna make sure
that that is not how you think about problems.
I want you to think about problems as opportunities,
as challenges.
In fact, I wanna say that,
as a manager, if you don't think you have a problem,
you have a bigger problem than you think,
and the problem is that you are not recognizing problems.
You're not understanding problems.
Problems are opportunities for improvement.
Now, there's something about the word problems
that I don't like.
I'd rather think about challenges, opportunities,
ways you can improve.
You know, I had a consulting firm for many years,
and when I came to work in the morning,
I didn't come to work and say,
"Well, are there any problems today?"
'Cause we think about problems as a negative event.
You know, somebody spilled something,
somebody broke something, somebody did something wrong.
And that's not how I want you to think about problems.
I want you to think about problems
as the gap between where we are and where we could be.
You remember our little mountain climber
going up the mountain?
And we talked about both behaviors,
sort of the soft side of climbing the mountain,
and the data, the performance.
And we're focused on both those things, improving behavior,
and by that we improve the performance,
and we're watching both of those things
and creating short-term goals, short-term targets,
as we move towards an end state,
you know, a challenge that you never really get to.
It's like, I want to be an educated person.
When are you an educated person?
Well, the sign of a great manager
is not a manager who's standing still,
and saying, "You know, I'm there.
I'm at the top of the mountain."
You're dead
when you think you're at the top of the mountain.
Somebody's about to knock you off.
No, you are great
when every day, you're continuously improving,
and the way you do that is through a method,
and that method we call problem solving.
So it's not just that somebody broke something.
That's not the problem.
The problem is what I call creative dissatisfaction.
Creative dissatisfaction is the gap
between where we are and where we could be.
I could be smarter.
I could do better videos.
I could write better books.
You know, I can always do something better, right?
So I'm here and I wanna be even better,
and life, the energy of life, the energy of the muscle
is not stimulated by a condition of ease, saying I'm there,
but it's that constant challenge
and the way we move up that mountain
is through problem solving methodologies
like the plan, do, check, act illustrated here,
and we'll talk about others,
but through constant problem solving.
So let's talk about attitudes of problem solving.
And I know attitudes is sort of a soft word,
but it's how we think about problems.
Now, attitude number one is problems are normal.
You don't freak out when you have a problem,
you say, "Every day, there's a problem."
It's how do we improve things?
If something's not working, that's a problem.
Why did it happen?
We study why it happened.
And we have the attitude not focusing on who's to blame.
A high performing culture, a lean culture,
a high performing team
is never one where we're looking to blame people.
We're looking to improve the process.
We're looking to improve how things get done,
rather than focusing on what's wrong with the people.
You know, I had an experience
in my early days working with Honda
where I was meeting
with the Executive Vice President over all manufacturing,
and he was describing how they hire people.
And I said, "Well, very sophisticated company,
you know, very high performing company.
They must just hire the best people, right?"
And he said, "No, no, actually what we do
in terms of first-level associates
is we do a basic background check
to make sure they're not on the run
from a murder crime or something,
that they can read and write, they can do very basic math.
And then we put their name in a hat
and we pull their name out of a hat,
sort of random selection."
And I was sort of surprised because I said, "Really?
I mean, why don't you
have all kinds of ways of selecting the best?
Why don't you select the best, rather?"
And he said, "You know what?"
He said, "When you hire 12,000 people,"
which is what they had at the time,
"You know who you're gonna end up with when you hire 12,000?
You're gonna end up with average people.
That's what you're gonna end up with.
Our job is to design the process and the culture
where average people can make great cars."
And I thought that was brilliant, you know?
That's right.
It's not, we're not gonna have a great product
we're not gonna have a great process
because we have the greatest people in the world.
We have to have a great process whereby average people,
now, it depends on your work, right?
If you're hiring brain surgeons,
please hire the best possible brain surgeons.
I'm not arguing that you don't do that,
but I am arguing that when we think about problems,
we think about the process, not the person.
You remember, I think I told you, Dr. Deming said,
95% of problems are in the process, not the person,
but 95% of the time, we blame the person.
We don't fix the process.
We can't figure out
why the next person has the same problem.
Okay, solving problems quickly is desirable.
Fast is good, faster is better.
The longer you wait to solve a problem,
the greater the cost of the problem.
The problem gets worse.
We get used to the problem.
So solve problems quickly.
Every day,
your team should be thinking about how to do things better,
and that's problem solving.
We're sometimes looking for the ideal perfect solution,
and there ain't none, okay?
There's always a better way, not a perfect way,
and sometimes we don't take action to improve
'cause we're looking for the perfect way.
And this gets to sort of the complexity
and nature of problem solving, too.
I've gone to courses on problem solving.
I won't name the company, but it was very famous,
used to be very famous for its problem solving methodology.
And you'd go into this conference room
where they're teaching the methodology,
and I swear to God, the methodology covered the whole wall.
I mean, you did this, then you did this,
you went there, and then you did there, you went there.
I mean, it was this incredibly complex model.
I mean, you had to have a PhD to learn it.
Nonsense.
Problem solving can be very simple,
and I'm gonna teach you methods that are simple.
They're not for simple people, they're not for simpletons.
They're for smart people
'cause smart people engage in rapid problem solving quickly.
They try things out, they experiment,
and they look at the data, right?
That's the whole game of problem solving.
Problem solve, think what are the problems?
What are the solutions?
Try something out.
Look at the data.
Did it improve? It did.
Yes, let's standardize that.
It didn't improve, let's try something else.
But you do rapid cycle.
This is sort of the Lean, Agile methodology
of rapid cycle experimentation, rapid cycle learning.
Address problems that your team can control.
You know, we all have this tendency to blame others,
to assume the problem is the other guys, right?
I may have told you, I don't remember, my prison story.
When I worked in prisons, I had 150 young inmates,
33 of whom had killed somebody,
and what I learned from interviewing them
was that none of them belonged there.
They all had an explanation for why they were there.
There was always the other guys.
The other guys got them in trouble.
Well, trust me, they were the other guys.
They got themselves in trouble,
but they did this externality thing.
It's a characteristic of people who are not successful,
that they tend to blame other people.
People who are highly successful
say, "What could I have done differently?"
And that's internality, what some call locus of control,
from internal to external locus of control.
People who are internal tend to be more successful
than people who are external.
Externals end up in prison.
High performing teams say, "What can we do?
What can we do?"
So as a manager, as a leader of your team,
I want you to focus on problems
that your team can work on solving.
Trust in the power
of the collective intelligence of the group.
There is something,
you know, we're always looking for,
well, who is it who has the right answer?
And we tend, "Oh, he's a smart guy.
Let's go ask him."
No, let's learn to use the brain power
of the collective intelligence of the group,
and that's what team problem solving is about.
Team problem solving
is not about figuring out who has the right answer.
It's the belief that if we all think together,
you remember our thinking together versus alone dialogue.
If we think together,
we will all come out with a better solution.
Be a detective.
Play Sergeant Friday.
Always focus on the facts.
Everybody has opinions, but what are the facts?
Opinions are easy, opinions are cheap,
but what are the facts, right?
You know, when you really go to look at the facts,
you can cut through all the nonsensical ideologies
and you can really solve problems,
but if you're focused on just what people think,
just their opinions or their ideologies,
you don't get there.
You get there by really focusing on the fact.
The rule of parsimony says that the simplest solutions
or the simplest explanations are best.
You know, very often we can create highly complex,
well, because of this, because of this,
went around and come back.
What are the simple things we can do?
Find the simplest explanations
that we can do something about quickly.
That leads to continuous improvement.
Just one other thing.
You know, we think of problem solving as so complex.
The reality is every problem solving model
has some of the same basic elements.
You define the problem well.
What really is the problem, right?
You go to the gemba.
You go see, go get the facts.
Engage others in thinking about the causes of the problem.
Think about the solutions, brainstorm solutions.
Figure out which is the most likely possible solution.
Experiment, try it out.
You know what?
Everything that we'll talk about is about that simple.
I mean, that's really what it all comes down to.
Now we can make it a little bit more complex
and ask more questions to probe,
and that's what the different models do,
but basically all problem solving
comes down to those things.
Okay, we're gonna go through three problem solving models,
root cause analysis,
plan, do, check, act,
and the A3 model.
These are all used in Lean management
and they all work very effectively,
and they can all be used by your team.
Ready?
Let's go.
(bright music)

--- Root Cause Analysis ---

(gentle music)
-: Hi again. You know, sometimes we say,
"That's too easy, that's too simple.
That couldn't be useful."
And the five "why's," or root cause analysis,
and you get to the root cause by
asking the question, "Why?"
Five times. Doesn't have to be five times,
it can be three times, or six or seven times,
but by repeatedly asking the question, "Why,"
we can get to what the real root cause of the problem is.
And, and it just, you know how simple this is.
Do you remember when you're,
now I don't know what children you have,
or whether you have any children at all,
but every parent will understand this.
The three-year-old says,
"Mommy, I want to go outside and play."
And mommy says, or daddy says,
"You can't. It's not a good day to play outside."
"Why? Why can't I play?"
"Because it's raining outside."
"Why is it raining outside?"
(laughs)
"Because the plants need water to grow,
and we need water to drink.
That's why it's raining."
"Why?"
(laughing)
You've all, if you've had children,
or you will have children,
that do this, "Why, why, thing."
And you may, you know,
it gets to the point where mom and dad say,
"Just because." Right.
Out of frustration.
Because mom and dad don't wanna have to think that hard.
They don't wanna have to keep thinking about,
"Well actually, why does it rain?"
You know. But whatever, whatever the thing is.
But this, what your child is doing,
is a very natural, and very desirable thing.
They're really exploring, you know,
just like they explore physically, you know,
put things in their mouth, right?
When they're toddlers crawling around the floor.
Well, we do that mentally too.
And that mentally is like,
"Well, why is that?
Well, why is that?"
Well, God bless children for doing this.
And we sort of get it beaten out of us.
So we just take everything for granted.
We say, "Well that's the way it is."
We don't, we don't ask why,
you know, we don't ask why people behave the way they do.
We don't ask why our economy works the way it does.
We don't ask why our...
Anyway. So, I want you to try the five "why's."
And go, you know, take a problem,
take a very simple problem.
You know, just for example,
well, we had an accident in the plant.
Somebody fell down and they hurt their elbow.
"Why?" You know, that's the problem.
The problem is, and maybe we're having too many accidents.
That's the problem. "Why?"
Well, 'cause the plant isn't clean enough.
There's oil on the floor.
"Why? Why is there oil on the floor?"
"Well, because the equipment is leaking oil,
and it comes on the floor, and it..."
"Why, why is the equipment leaking oil?"
"Well, 'cause people aren't maintaining it properly."
"Why? Why aren't people maintaining it properly?"
"Well, they haven't been trained how to maintain it."
Or, and you can go like to two different paths now.
"Or they just don't care."
"Well, why don't they care?"
"Why haven't they been trained?"
You get it?
And now you're getting like,
to the root cause of the problem.
And then you get to,
"Well, okay, what do we do about it?"
You know, what are solutions based on,
you know, when you've sort of exhausted the "why's"
to the point where you really should do something,
you can sort of feel that that's, you know,
"Okay people aren't trained to maintain the equipment.
We've gotta train people to maintain their equipment."
Right? So that's a solution.
Who's gonna do it, when they're gonna do it,
what's the action plan?
You go into action planning.
Make sense? So I mean the,
and then you experiment, right?
I mean everything is an experiment.
I've said this so many times, and I'll keep saying it.
Everything we do is an experiment.
So you try training people,
you try whatever, you may put some antecedents,
some visual prompts,
some visual display of standard work,
when do you maintain it,
what do you do to maintain it,
a diagram that illustrates how you maintain it,
what are the consequences for doing it?
Remember our A, B, C model?
That comes back into play, right,
when you, when you think about how to solve the problem.
But everything is an experiment.
I hope that makes sense.
Now you can also use, by the way,
when doing the five "why's,"
you can use your fishbone diagram.
If you're not familiar with this,
this is what a fishbone diagram looks like.
And you can have different major headings.
You know, this is a, just an example.
You can decide. Is it materials, equipment,
information, skills, knowledge,
motivation, or the process.
And then you can sort of brainstorm, you know,
you know, just like you asked the five "why's."
Is it anything about materials,
is it anything about equipment?
Yes. We're not maintaining the equipment properly.
Information. They don't have the information
of when they should do that.
They don't have the skills or knowledge,
they don't really care.
It's a motivation problem.
You got it.
So you can use this fishbone diagram,
as you're doing the five "why's"
or instead of doing the five "why's."
Either of them get you to solutions to a problem,
or identifying the,
first, identifying the causes of a problem,
and then the solutions of a problem.
Try the five "why's."
Try it with your team.
Take a problem, and just do it.
It's so, so easy, it's so simple,
but it's incredibly effective,
and you can solve a lot of problems,
just by being a three year old.
(laughing) Right.
Okay, let's come back, and let's talk
about the plan-do-check-act, model of problem solving,
that is very popular.
Thank you.
(gentle music)
(upbeat music)

--- Plan-Do-Check-Act Problem Solving Model ---

(bright music)
-: Hi again, folks.
Plan, do, check, act, or plan, do, study, act.
Same thing.
I have healthcare clients.
They prefer the term study than check.
I think maybe in manufacturing,
this comes out of manufacturing,
but it's certainly not restricted to manufacturing.
You can use it anywhere,
but the check made more sense in terms of equipment
and sort of technical things in a manufacturing plant.
So use the term study, if you will,
or plan, do, check, act, either one.
Now, this model of problem solving
literally goes back to the 1930s.
Shewhart, Walter Shewhart started it,
then Dr. Deming adopted it.
Demming and Duran both used the plan, do, check, act model.
It was adopted at Toyota,
became part of the basic Toyota business process
or problem solving model.
And now almost any Lean manufacturing plant you go into,
they're using both the PDCA and the A3 model,
which we'll we'll talk about next.
And again, like most good things,
and the fact that this has had staying power,
you know, it's lasted a long time.
It tells you it works, right?
Things that don't work,
this is, you know, Darwin's law, if you will.
Things that don't work,
they get wiped out or they get forgotten about.
This has not gotten forgotten about,
so just respect the experience
of a million people who've used it,
and learn to use it.
Maybe you can improve on it.
Great, but try it out, and either use this model.
Remember as we go up our mountain climbing,
we go up the mountain climbing.
Each step is a PDCA cycle.
That's one way of thinking about it, right?
We have these plan, do, check, act or PDSA cycles,
and that's how we get there.
That's how we get to optimum performance
or ideal performance, whatever you'd like to call it.
But it's not a one-time thing, it's a hundred times thing.
It's continual plan, do, check, act,
and the plan, do, check, act model,
one of the virtues of it
is that you can do it in five minutes,
or you can take all day to do it,
you know, depending on on the complexity of the problem.
But literally, this is the model that's used
in that 10 or 15-minute daily huddle
around the piece of equipment on the factory floor
where the 10, 12 team members review how they did yesterday,
any changes that are gonna happen today,
the schedule for today, and any problems that we have,
and let's do a quick PDCA on whatever that problem is.
What's the cause of the problem?
What can we do to solve the problem?
Let's experiment.
You've just developed a plan.
Plan, do.
Today, let's try that, right?
Check, how'd it go tomorrow morning, right?
Or maybe midday or by the end of the day, how's it working?
And then you act to standardize or to do another experiment.
And that's why, as you go around that circle,
you're learning.
It's a learning cycle, right?
That's what the scientific method is.
It's that cycle of continually planning, doing, studying,
and then acting to say it didn't work
and let's try another experiment, or to standardize that.
Let's make that the routine practice if in fact it worked.
Now what I'd like you to do
is attached to this lecture is a Word document
that is a PDCA or plan, do, study, act form, okay?
I'd like you to download it, 'cause there are two pages.
One page is blank for you to fill in
as you try going through the cycle,
and the other side or the other page
is what's inside it, right?
So if you look at this, you should have a page like this,
and that defines the activities
that go on in each of those steps.
So stop the video right now and print that out,
'cause I want you to have that in front of you
as we talk about it.
Okay, so you have that printed out and in front of you now.
Good.
I hope you did that,
and let's talk about what's in each phase.
So what's in the plan phase?
What do you do there?
And again, this can be very quick
or it can be be more complex and lengthy,
but you define what the problem is, right?
State the problem clearly.
State the problem with pinpointed behavior if you can,
and actual data.
What's the data?
To the degree that you can.
That's the current state.
What's the ideal state?
What should it be?
There's what is and what should be.
Where do we want to get to?
So just state those very quickly.
Maybe in this stage, you need to go see.
If you don't have the people in the room
who have their hands on and are doing it, stop.
Go see, go talk to the people who are doing it,
'cause you can't develop a plan
unless you really have the facts
and the people who are on the spot at the gemba,
those are the people who have the real facts.
And then you say, okay, those are the facts.
That's the problem.
Quickly, what are alternatives?
Just brainstorm solutions.
You can brainstorm very quickly,
or you can take an hour to do it,
again, depending on the complexity of the problem.
Quickly narrow that down
to one or two things that we can try.
Let's agree to try, action plan.
Who's gonna do it?
When are they gonna do it?
Boom, let's go to work.
That make sense?
That's sort of the plan.
And then the do, very simple.
You develop an action plan
or you've developed that in the plan.
Either one, doesn't matter.
Who, what, and when.
You're gonna implement small experiments.
You're gonna try them.
You may have to train people.
You may have to change some procedure.
You may have to change some piece of equipment.
I don't know what you have to do to implement that,
but you do it.
The checking is very simple.
You're watching the data.
You have your graph, right?
Please, please, please, please graph your data,
observe the results of your experiment,
watch the performance, and say, "Is this sustainable?"
You know, go on the spot,
observe the people are doing what we agreed to do,
and then you say very simply, you know,
"Did it work or can we improve on that?"
What do we learn?
I mean, every time we try something, we learn something.
If we don't try anything, we don't learn anything.
You want to be a learning organization, a learning team,
a learning individual,
which means that you're constantly going to be experimenting
and trying things,
and based on that, there are two possible courses of action.
One is a new experiment to improve on that
or to try something different, if that didn't work,
and second, to standardize that.
If it worked, why wouldn't we keep doing it?
I can't tell you how many times
I've seen people solve a problem
and somehow they forget what worked,
and six months later,
they're trying to solve the same problem.
Well, that's a failure to standardize
what we learned from the first experiment.
That's it.
I mean, it's that simple, okay?
But it's a discipline.
So please try the discipline.
Try going through it.
And by the way, this is an example of a client of mine.
They're a bottling plant.
I won't bore you with the details,
but it's interesting to look at the details,
and you see, on their plan,
you can see where they even took a picture.
There was, on the line that the bottles went into cases
and they were having problems with the cases
and closing and being defective,
and it really came down to just a slight adjustment
in a piece of equipment,
and they even illustrated that,
so people could see it next time.
But here are the steps they went through,
and this is what a completed A4,
or by the way, A3 and A4, just I didn't explain that.
And this is a size of paper.
Simple, right?
And A3, which we'll talk about next,
is about a 17-by-23 size paper,
in English versus metric terms.
And A4 is roughly 8 1/2-by-11,
normal paper size that comes out of your printer.
So you can call this an A4,
you can call it, you know, a PDSA or PDCA.
Okay, go try it and talk to your coach about it.
Try it and share it with your coach.
Share the experience with your coach.
Get your coach's advice on how that went,
and how you can improve the way you're doing that.
Thanks.
Let's talk about the A3 next.
(bright music)

--- A3 - Lean Problem Solving ---

(light music)
-: Hi again, folks.
Let's talk about A3 problem solving.
Now, in Lean Management Toyota Production System
which has become very popular both in manufacturing
and in healthcare and in other settings.
This is really the second
primary method of problem solving,
the PDCA or PDSA and the A3.
Now, everything that's in the PDCA is within the A3,
so they're not like different.
It's just that the A3 is more comprehensive.
And the reason you use an A3 versus a PDCA,
a PDCA is really designed to be done very rapidly.
The A3 is designed to be a much more
in-depth problem solving process.
And you should ask yourself,
how big a problem is this?
Is this a problem that we could solve
in a day or two if we worked at it?
Or is this something that may take us weeks to solve?
If it's the latter, you wanna use the A3.
Now, the A3 is supposed to tell a story.
It's supposed to be more in-depth learning.
It's the difference between reading
a one page Wikipedia on some historical character,
Augustus Caesar or George Washington or something
versus reading a biography, a 300 page biography.
Obviously, you have much more knowledge,
much more in-depth, although they may cover
essentially the same story.
But the A3 is designed to be more in-depth learning
and more in-depth problem solving.
And one thing I would like you to do with the A3,
by the way, A3 just refers to a size of paper
which is a metric size versus an English size.
And it's roughly 11 by 17
or you can use the 13 by 23 size paper
or as big as you can make it.
I like big.
And if I were you, one thing that you could do
is you could really cover a wall.
I mean, if it were up to me,
I'd make this five feet by four feet
or something like that.
But if you have a conference room,
I mean, you can put this up on the wall,
you can put the major headings up,
and then you can put pieces of paper
under those major headings
for the content that goes under them.
But the idea is to engage people
and the idea is to give people an opportunity
to see and to think over time
'cause it's a more comprehensive in-depth problem.
Hope that makes sense.
Now, look at the A3 here
and here's a blank A3 and here's A3
with sort of the content filled in.
And I'm gonna shrink myself out of the picture here
so you can look more in-depth.
And by the way, this is attached to the lecture.
So you can download this
and you can print it out
which I strongly recommend for you
as I did with the PDCA or A4, if you will.
So let's go through each of the categories here.
And it would be very useful as we go through this.
If you identified a problem in your work area
and you sought to apply it
and you could go through this with your team
and take your team through it and try applying it.
The first is to define the problem
as in every problem solving methodology, right?
You wanna define the problem well.
And in this block, put why is it a problem?
Where does it occur?
When does it occur?
How often does it occur?
What does it look like?
What does it feel like?
Who knows about it?
Who caress about it?
Anything, you could put a picture of the problem here.
If you use your iPhone or whatever
to take a little picture and put it here,
that would be great.
If you're using a big wall like I recommended.
But again, think deeply about defining the problem well.
Second, inquire, use your scientific mind.
Use your Sergeant Friday.
Nothing but the facts.
Gather the facts, mindset.
Who knows about the problem?
Who cares about the problem?
Do they have any clues?
Talk to them, go and see.
Go on the spot.
Ask questions, watch it,
see it happen, if you can.
Who has solved similar problems?
What did they learn from that?
Who can help us?
Again, if you can get data,
and this is the measurement.
Gather data on the problem
'cause there are always clues in the data.
Even if the data is a straight line,
that's a clue, right?
Then it's not the weather.
It's not only on Fridays.
It's not one person.
It's something systemic, right,
if it's a straight line.
But maybe there's variability and maybe
there's an upward trend or a downward trend.
Is this problem getting worse
or is this problem getting better?
Very important to know.
And by the way, if the problem is getting better,
you know what you should do?
Nothing (laughs), let it get better, right?
Maybe there's something happening
that is causing the trend to move upward, upward,
in this case, meaning good.
Well, you ought to let that trend run, right?
Let's see what happens as that trend goes upward.
If it's going downward,
you wanna intervene more quickly,
but try to understand the causation
of why the data is moving the way it's moving.
And you always wanna have baseline data.
So at this point
in the A3 process, gather baseline data
'cause then you're gonna do something, right?
You're gonna do an experiment
and that's that straight line,
that's an intervention line.
And then you're gonna watch what happens
as a result of what you did.
And maybe nothing happens.
Well, that's good information, right?
It didn't work, great.
Now, let's try something else.
And maybe we try 10 things.
Be Thomas Edison here.
He tried hundreds of things
before the filament light bulb worked, right?
So you're gonna try different things
to find the improvement,
but you're gonna watch the data.
Again, you're gonna be a scientist, right?
Now, I've included a box on my A3
that most others don't
because I think it's important.
I'm a believer in principle-centered leadership
as Stephen Covey called it
or just knowing what your principles are
and applying your principles.
So you might ask the question at this point,
what principles are important to take into account?
Well, it might be that the primary principle
that we're focused on
is improving customer satisfaction, right?
Another principle might be,
let's create a solution that can be implemented quickly.
Another principle might be,
let's make sure that everybody involved
is engaged in coming up with a solution.
That could be a principle,
but just think about what principles.
I just always believe in any process
to think about what your principles are
and that may lead you to a better solution.
So then you're gonna analyze the causes
and you're gonna use your brainstorming techniques.
And by the way, I'm gonna do a lecture after this
just on the skills of brainstorming.
So I won't talk too much about that now.
But right at this point,
you're gonna use your brainstorming skills
to generate maximum number of ideas
about the possible causes.
You're gonna investigate those causes.
When you have ideas about causes,
you're gonna go on the spot,
you're gonna go observe again
to make sure that there's a relationship between
what you think is the cause and what's happening.
Study the data again for causes,
use your cause and effect diagram.
I think I've shown this before,
but this is a good point to use that cause
and effect diagram to brainstorm potential causes.
At this point, you may use Pareto analysis
and the idea of Pareto analysis.
Vilfredo Pareto in Italy came up with this idea
and the idea very simply.
And believe it or not, he was studying his garden
and he noticed that 80% of the peas
from his garden came from 20% of the pea pods.
Don't ask me why that makes sense.
I have absolutely no idea.
But anyway, that's where he got this from.
And this became the 80/20 rule
or the Pareto principle.
Now, what does that have to do with your problem?
Well, you may have 10 different possible causes,
all of which may be actual causes.
For example, we have a restaurant
or a movie theater in this case
where people are not coming back and we survey them
and one of the things they say is it's not clean.
And then you say, "Well, where is it not clean?"
And you say, "Well, is it the restrooms?
"Is it popcorn on the floor?
"What are the causes?"
And then if you've identified the causes
and here you see the one on the left
that has the highest percent of the causes,
that's the one you're going to attack first, right?
And it may not be exactly 80/20, right?
But it may be that just 20% of the causes,
if you can fix those,
that'll solve 80% of the problem.
Does that make sense?
So think about the 80/20 rule or Pareto analysis.
Plot it if you can and go after those.
And then you're gonna brainstorm solutions, right?
So just like we brainstorm causes,
now we're gonna brainstorm solutions and say,
what can we do about that?
And out of those solutions,
you're gonna come up with an action plan.
And this is your action plan.
Now, you have the action plan
that's on your agenda spreadsheet, remember that?
That you've used, I hope.
But you can do a separate action plan.
It's part of the A3 form,
but I'll give you a separate form too.
Just eight and a half by 11 sheet,
a Word document that you can fill in
that looks like this as an action plan.
And what are you gonna do?
You're gonna follow up.
This is control, right?
But the control really means to pay.
This is an odd phenomena that happens.
But trust me, this really happens.
People go through a big problem solving process
and they come up with a solution,
they implement a solution,
and they forget about it.
They say, "Well, we're done with that."
Well, no, you're not done with that.
The done with that is watching the data over time
to see that the solution sustains
and maybe trying to improve it beyond that, right?
You may have several iterations
of improving performance around that problem.
So keep it in control.
And I found also, the solution may be,
well, every morning, we have to maintain this,
or we have to stop after four hours
and oil this or that or adjust something
and people do it for a week
and then they kinda fall back into old habits
and they stop doing it.
Well, that's a lack of control, right?
You haven't standardized that work
and held people to standard work.
So be sure to control, to sustain the results,
and even build on those results to get better results.
I hope that makes sense.
Okay, that's the A3, it's not complicated.
Try it, okay, try using it.
And I think you'll see
that you get sort of more in-depth,
more richer problem solving than with the PDCA.
Thanks a lot.
Let's come back and let's talk
about skills of brainstorming.
(light music)

--- The Skills of Brainstorming ---

(soothing music)
-: Hi again, folks, I realize I've used the term
brainstorming repeatedly through this course,
and maybe I've sort of assumed
you knew how to do brainstorming.
And that assumption might be right for some of you,
but it might also be wrong for some of you.
Particularly if you were a new manager,
you may never have led brainstorming.
You may have participated in brainstorming,
but you may never have led it,
or you may have just used the term casually,
but you don't know the real discipline of brainstorming.
So if it's helpful, let me go through,
some explanation of how to do brainstorming.
There are different methods of brainstorming,
and I'd like you to try it,
and I think this might be helpful.
First of all, the most important thing is to understand
why you're doing brainstorming and what brainstorming is.
And brainstorming is not deciding anything.
Separate deciding, judging what's good, what's bad,
you know, all the other things on the A three,
all the other boxes, forget about them.
When you're brainstorming, the idea is to be creative,
and to come up with things that you wouldn't
otherwise have come up with.
And this is always hard to explain,
but there is some magic in brainstorming,
or chemistry in brainstorming.
And the chemistry is this.
When you brainstorm, you want people
to say wild and crazy things.
And you may say what's the point
in saying wild and crazy things?
That's a waste of time, isn't it?
No, because one wild and crazy idea
might stimulate something in somebody else's brain,
and that next idea may stimulate
something in somebody else's brain.
And that idea that comes from the third reaction
might be the really great idea.
So that's sort of the magic, that's sort of the chemistry.
But what you have to do in order to get there
is you have to suspend judgment.
And this is, if you're facilitating brainstorming,
and this is maybe the hard part,
or where you have to be disciplined with your team.
You tell the team, guys, you know,
we're gonna generate ideas,
and we're not going to judge them.
Now, we can come back and judge 'em later,
but right now while we're brainstorming,
we're not going to judge them.
And somebody will raise their hand and say something,
and this is just sort of our bad habits.
Somebody else will say, we'll be thinking,
that's a stupid idea, we can't do that.
So they may then say, well, that's a dumb idea.
We can't do that.
And what that does is that punishes the behavior,
that reduces our ability to come up with more ideas.
So you have to be listening as the facilitator.
Whether people start making judgements,
and if they start making judgements, you know,
you've gotta say, time out guys,
we're not judging now, we're brainstorming, okay.
We're just trying to generate ideas
and build on each other's ideas, right.
To see how creative we can be.
So that's the real chemistry,
and that's the discipline,
the idea is to come up with a maximum number of ideas,
to generate new and creative ideas.
And the idea also is to give
all team members the opportunity.
We'll talk about how to do that in a second.
But you've always got the quick talkers and the laid back,
I might never talk talkers in the room.
You know who they are in your team, right.
Some people don't need any help making their contribution.
Some people you have to invite.
And when you do brainstorming, you want to invite people,
because sometimes the most creative and best ideas
might come from the person who's not the most assertive,
who doesn't speak up the quickest.
Clearly define the what the question is.
State a question.
why are teenagers dropping out of high school?
Just you can take that as a game,
if you will, to think about.
Why are they dropping out of high school?
And then people can start generating ideas.
And of course what you do is you're gonna brainstorm
causes and then you're gonna brainstorm solutions, right.
There's always that flow
from causation to what do we do about it.
That's the natural flow.
If you ever walk into a room where brainstorming
is going on, and people are like laughing,
you know, they seem to be in a really good mood,
and they're joking around,
don't ever think they're wasting time.
That's in fact exactly the sign of healthy brainstorming.
When people are sort of being wild
and crazy and laughing at things,
that's when they tend to be most creative.
I don't know exactly why that is, but it's true.
So, if they're laughing and joking
and having a good time while they're brainstorming,
that's a sign that the right
chemistry is happening in the room.
Let's talk about some different methods of brainstorming.
Now, you've got your group, you're standing up,
well, you could be sitting down,
but you're the facilitator.
And you have a flip chart.
You could be typing it on a laptop and projecting it.
There are other ways of of doing it.
You could use Post-It notes
and be putting them up on the wall, that's a good idea.
Other ways of capturing, right,
the brainstorms, the ideas that people have.
And one thing you do is you just go freewheeling.
So you say, okay, does anybody have
any ideas about why kids are dropping out of school?
Then you wait, you're silent.
The silence is not dead time, it's thinking time, okay.
Folks are thinking.
Now, as the facilitator, try to shut up, try to be quiet,
right, and let them think.
Don't feel like you have to jump in.
They'll start talking, but you have to be quiet long enough
to let them start thinking and then talking.
But freewheeling is where you just open it up,
and anybody who has any ideas voices them.
Now, the only problem with that is our fast talkers
versus slow talkers, right.
I mean, people who don't tend to speak up.
So what we can do now is let's play round robin.
And you just start on the right or the left, and you say
let's just go around the room.
And one thing you can do is you can
sort of announce that you're gonna do that,
and say, okay, let's brainstorm,
you know, all the reasons we can think
of for kids dropping out of school.
Why don't, why don't you take a minute
and sort of write down your ideas,
and then let's go around the room.
Give them a minute, and they know they're gonna
be called on, right, 'cause you said you're gonna
go around the room, so they're gonna write down some ideas.
And now you just go around the room,
you capture those on a flip chart,
or you capture them on Post-It notes, and you put them up.
And you may find you that some people are uncomfortable.
They're uncomfortable being called on.
So what you can, it's called a slip method,
but Post-It note method is probably better.
You give everybody Post-It notes,
and you just tell everybody to write down
one idea on a Post-It note, right,
as many as you have, as many Post-It notes as you have.
And then everybody just come up
and stick 'em up on the wall,
right, in random order, don't worry about the order.
We'll come to that later.
But just stick them all up on the wall.
Then everybody has an opportunity.
Then it's not who's loudest,
or who is the first one to raise their hand.
You get all those Post-It notes up on the wall,
and then you do an affinity diagram.
Now, what's an affinity diagram?
The term affinity is things that look like,
feel like, are close to, right, that's affinity.
And then an affinity diagram.
I love this as a facilitator, right?
Because you sit down as the facilitator,
and have everybody else get up.
And you tell 'em to all go to the board
where now you've got 30 Post-It notes, let's just say.
And you say, look for ones that are like another one
and group them, right, let's come up with,
you know, there might be three, four, five, six
different groupings that these fall into.
And what you ask the group to do is to be silent.
This is very hard for some groups.
But you just say this is a no talking exercise,
I know for some it's like almost impossible.
But when you tell 'em just no talking, go to the board
and arrange the Post-It notes in affinity groups.
And they can do this.
And they do it.
And then you look at the groups.
And one group may be about information access.
Another group may be about skills.
Another group may be about machinery,
or methods, or tools, or computers, or something, right.
And what you come out with is a little bit like
what you come out with a fishbone diagram, right.
Just another way sort of getting, you know,
generating ideas and organizing them into groupings.
And you'll find that some of them
are actually the same idea, so you put those together.
And now you can also see sort of the weight,
by how many Post-It notes fall into, let's say information,
versus skills versus something else.
So that's one way of brainstorming and organizing
our thoughts that come out of brainstorming.
You can also use a mind map, which is simply
a way of saying you have the problem in the center
and what are the big ideas, and information might be be one.
So you sort of draw a line out of the solution.
And then you say, well,
what other things are related to that?
And then you do it again, it's very much
like a fishbone diagram, but in a mind map,
it's sort of much more the way the mind works,
which is sort of in a chaotic, crazy fashion
is the way it will tend to look.
And then of course, you can use
your cause and effect diagrams,
both for brainstorming solutions
and brainstorming causes and solutions.
But the key idea about brainstorming,
and if you're a facilitator,
this is the heart of the matter,
the separation of judging versus coming up with ideas.
You can then judge them, right,
there are lots of ways,
remember my dot method that I described?
There are lots of other methods of forming consensus.
I gave you a lecture earlier on creating consensus.
You can go back to that and watch it if you like.
Thanks, I hope that's helpful.
(soothing music)

--- Exercise 11: Solving Problems ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- What Are Processes and Capabilities? ---

(soft music)
-: Hi again, friends.
This whole section, the last section of the course,
I know you're happy to be there,
is on process management, process improvement.
And I want you to just think
about the flow of the three circles here.
And I want to introduce the word capability.
And the purpose of this course has been to
improve your capability to lead, develop,
manage individuals, teams, and processes, right?
And if you think about that process,
first of all everything we learned
in the managing people section,
enabled you to manage teams well.
If you are able to manage teams well,
teams own and manage a work process.
So if your team is highly capable,
if you're a highly capable team leader,
you have highly capable individuals that you developed well,
now they're managing their work process.
Now they're managing their workflow.
And if you think about the idea of capability
in an organization, an organization is capable to the degree
that each process within the organization is capable.
So you, as a manager of a team and a process,
you are a brick on the building, if you will.
You are managing one
of those processes that enable the organization to succeed
enable the organization to be capable.
What is a process?
You know, we've used this term over and over again.
Let's make sure we understand it
'cause we're gonna proceed to map it
and eliminate waste from it.
And improve it.
A process is a set of activities,
that you could view those activities separately
and individually but those activities connect to each other.
They have a flow across the activities that
produces an outcome that serves a customer.
Does that make sense?
Easy example, we're a restaurant.
We're making meals and serving customers, right?
There are a whole bunch of steps in the process
buying the incoming food, right?
Buying the lettuce and the meat and the so forth.
And you can follow through the imagine the process
till the customer's leaving the restaurant feeling filled
and happy about their meal.
That's a process, right?
With inputs and outputs and so forth.
But there are a set of discreet activities.
And every discreet activity has to be performed well
in order for the whole chain.
Every activity is a link on a chain.
Put them together, you have a process.
Now what are capabilities and capabilities reside
within processes, capable individuals make processes capable
and capable processes make the organization capable
if that makes sense.
And there are both technical and human capabilities,
if you think about it for a second.
Just imagine we're racing cars, right?
And I'm Louis Hamilton
or Nico Rossberg Formula One World champions.
I'm a great driver
but the car you've given me is a Volkswagen Beetle.
Okay? An old Volkswagen Beetle.
You're an average driver.
You're not Louis Hamilton.
And you have a Ferrari, a Corvette, a Porsche.
Take your pick.
Even though I'm Louis Hamilton, a very, very capable driver.
Can I beat you or will you be able to beat me?
Probably you'll be able to beat me.
'cause the moment we're side by side and you put your foot
on the accelerator, you're gonna go right past me, right?
And you'll be able to go
around the corners faster and so forth.
Now you could, you could mess it up
but you're probably gonna beat me.
Not because you're more capable
but because the car, the technical thing.
And within that car, there are a whole set of processes.
An engine contains a process
or it's one big process, right?
A fuel coming in and horsepower going out,
or torque going out.
That's a process, as there is a process
in an individual driver having human capabilities
and what he or she does to drive the car.
So when we make our organization capable
we have to make our processes capable.
And when we think about our processes, we have to think
about both the technical and the human side of capabilities.
So here sort of summarizes what capabilities are.
They're the ability of people, processes, and technology,
the social and the technical, to perform
in a manner that satisfies customers
and achieves our strategy.
We want to satisfy our customers
but the organization as a whole, I hope, is going somewhere.
So you need to be developing your processes
to go where we need to go as an organization.
Human competencies and the ways of doing things are
processes that create unique advantage.
There's strategy and processes, strategies
create competitive advantage.
Capabilities reside in the core process.
And I want to talk
about core processes and enabling processes in a second.
But capabilities must align
to changing requirements on the landscape.
And let's just look at this diagram for a second.
First of all here's a process, right?
And if you think about every organization
I know this is a super simplification
but if you think about what organizations do
almost any company does,
there's a a flow from creating the product or service,
the innovation process, the creation, engineering,
research and development, all that, creating it stuff.
And then there's making it right?
There's manufacturing it or service delivery,
if you're a service company.
And there's selling it, right?
You gotta get it to market.
So there's that getting it to market process.
There may be also an after sale service component
to the process.
But that's what I call the core process, right?
And it's core because it's what customers pay for.
That's important to think about.
What do customers actually pay you for?
Will they pay you for the output of the core process?
They do not pay you for how well you develop your people,
your human resource processes, they don't pay you
for your information technology systems
unless you're an IT company.
And that's your core process.
That's what you're serving.
But if you're the restaurant, for example
or you're making cars or whatever
your customers don't pay you for how good your computer is
or how good your software, frankly, they don't care.
They care what comes out the other end
which is the product service that comes outta
that core process.
So the way you know what's core in the organization
just ask yourself, what do customers write a check for?
What do they pay for?
And that defines the core process.
Now, there are also enabling processes.
The human resource process,
the information technology process, the legal process,
and whatever other finance, accounting,
those processes are essential to the organization.
The organization can't function without them
but they're not what the customer pays for.
Does that make sense?
They're enabling of the core and the merit of them,
how good they are,
depends on how well they serve the core process.
And this is really about the dog wagging the tail
versus the tail wagging the dog.
We don't have manufacturing
and marketing processes in order to serve human resources.
No, the HR department serves manufacturing and sales
and research and development
whatever the core process is, right?
So it's important to understand who's the customer
of what and what's core and what's enabling.
I hope that makes sense.
Now, here's the thing about change
and managing improvement in processes.
You could get it right once and never change anything,
if the rest of the world weren't changing.
But we live on a landscape
every organization sits on a landscape of technology,
of social systems and social preferences,
and customer preferences and government regulations
and all kinds of things that are external
to the organization that are in motion.
They're all moving, they're not standing still.
And if they're in motion,
if technology is changing, we have to be adaptive.
We have to be an adaptive organization.
We have to constantly be sensing what's going
on in the outer world and saying,
how can that create advantage for us?
Or if a customer adopts it and we don't
how could that disadvantage us?
So we have to constantly be improving
our processes based on external realities
based on what's happening on the landscape.
I hope that makes sense.
So that's the basic idea
of processes and capabilities.
And we're gonna now talk for the rest of the course
really for remaining lectures
about making your processes more capable
and the degree to which you, as a manager
of your team and your processes,
you are capable of creating capability
within your processes.
You'll be successful.
Hope that makes sense.
Thanks a lot.
(soft music)

--- Listening to Your Customer ---

(light upbeat music)
-: Hi.
Customer requirements,
it's the beginning of process improvement.
For whom do we improve our processes?
Not for ourselves,
we don't matter in that sense, right?
If you're running a restaurant,
your processes better serve the customers
who come into that restaurant, right?
So, the great manager is great at constantly sensing
what customers like, what customers don't like,
what are they like about some other supplier,
some competitor of yours?
We constantly have to be thinking
about customer requirements.
And our job is not just to meet their requirements,
but to delight,
to really thrill our customers.
We want them really happy
when they leave.
And great organizations and Disney comes to mind,
I remember when my children were young
and my wife and I and the children
were down at Disney World,
we rented this sorta trailer,
it was like a mini home if you will.
It was great 'cause it had a kitchen
and you could make your own stuff and go shopping, all that.
And I came back to the trailer one, late in the morning,
maybe 11 o'clock or so,
and there was the cleaning woman,
and she was literally down on her hands and knees
wiping the floor.
And I said to her,
my children were about 10 minutes behind,
three of them,
and I knew whatever cleaning she was doing,
it wasn't gonna matter in 15 minutes
'cause they were gonna make a mess.
And I said to her,
I said, it's okay, it looks great,
don't worry,
my kids are about to come back.
And she looked up at me and said,
oh that's okay, I'm just part of the cast.
She's a part of the cast?
You know what she had been trained in to think she was?
She was trained to think,
she was like the person with he Mickey Mouse costume,
she was like one of the actors on a stage
or one of the performers on a stage.
She was part of the show.
She was a cast member.
Even the cleaning people at Disney are cast members.
Now, think about the psychology of that,
think about how they think about themself,
their self-worth, their dignity, respect for people.
Remember that?
And they had that,
and the work they were doing,
she wasn't just a cleaning woman cleaning a floor,
she was putting on a show,
she was part of the show.
Now, they have thought very well
about what delights customers,
what makes customers happy.
And how do they train their people to think and perform
as part of a cast member,
delighting their customers.
That's good thinking about customer requirements.
Let me give you an opposite example.
I worked in a foundry,
I don't know if you've ever been in a foundry,
but it's a tough place.
They pour molten iron into molds
and they make castings.
All right.
And this was in Monongahela, Pennsylvania,
coal country, steel country, Western Pennsylvania.
It was a tough place and there were tough people.
And the big building that they do castings in,
it's not heated in the winter
and it's not air conditioned in the summer.
It's a tough environment.
And the most skilled craftsmen in a foundry
are the pattern makers,
and they make wood shapes
based on engineered drawings,
and they're sculptures.
They literally are beautiful pieces of sculpture
that must be exactly the shape
that you want the casting to be.
Very skilled.
And I was in the pattern shop one day,
and talking to a pattern maker,
been there for 30+ years,
very confident person,
and I asked him, I don't remember the exact question,
but I asked him something about his customers.
And he said, he never met a customer.
You never met a customer?
You've been here 30 years
and you've never met a customer?
He says, nah, I just do what my boss tells me to do.
You know, it's important to be in touch with your customers.
And I'm a really simplistic consultant.
One of their customers,
they made castings that went in power plants,
electrical generation plants,
and we got a bunch of these guys and we got a van,
and we drove the customer.
When their castings were being delivered on the truck,
and they watched their castings being taken off the truck,
by the workers in this other company.
And these guys in the foundry were steelworkers,
the steelworkers union.
You know who the guys
taking the castings off the truck were?
They were steelworkers also.
They were in the same union,
they were brothers.
They've never met.
Never met.
And you know what happened?
The guys taking the castings off the truck,
they gave him some feedback about their casting,
and they gave him feedback in the way
that you and I would not give them.
Plain talk,
not just straight talk,
plain talk,
in plain language.
And these guys who's worked at the foundry for 30 years,
said oh, no one's ever told us that.
You know why I know no one's ever told him that?
'Cause the feedback had to go up, up, up, up,
and then it has to come across, across, across,
then had to come down, down, down,
and guess what, the feedback that they got
didn't resemble much the feedback from the guys
who actually had to use the product they were making.
Why don't we let people talk to their customer?
What are we afraid,
they're gonna conspire,
what are they gonna conspire to do?
Get it right?
Come on.
Talk to your customer,
make sure your team memmbers
go face-to-face with your customer.
Now, in some organizations, it's not possible,
but in those organizations,
that's because there's a long chain of customers, right?
Well, you can sure talk to the next one come the chain,
and maybe the link after that,
and maybe the link after that.
Your people can talk to your customers
and it's a psychological thing.
It's not just the facts of the feedback,
is how they feel about the feedback.
Because how they feel about it
will cause them to do something or not do something.
Now, let's, to find who our customers are,
and let's define what they're requirements are
and what delights them.
And what we can do to approve our processes
to meet our customers' needs better.
So, what I want you to do
is I want you to sorta make a list of your customers.
I'm gonna give you an exercise.
Make a list of your customers,
brainstorm it,
talk to your team members about it,
make sure they understand who your customers are.
And it, for most of you,
there's an internal customer within your organization.
It's not up, it's that way, okay.
It's horizontal customer,
has the work flow,
follow the work.
Ask yourself, who uses the stuff we make,
who cares about it?
If nobody cares about it, nobody uses it,
you probably shouldn't be doing it.
If that makes sense.
So ask who uses it,
who cares about it,
and both internally and externally to your organization.
And then we're gonna ask ourself,
we're gonna interview them.
That's what I'd like you to do,
I don't know whether you can do tgis,
but I would certainly like you to do this.
And what I've done with a lot of teamas
is have them plan an interview.
What are the questions we want to ask,
don't just go in cold,
but let's think about the questins,
think about the important questions.
Ask respectful questions.
Demonstrate to your customers
that you really care about what they think.
And no customer ever objects
to you caring abut how well you serve them.
Everybody likes it when you care
about how you serve your customers,
so demonstrate that you care
and demonstrate that you care by asking sincere questions.
And a good way to do that
is you have two team members
who are gonna do the interview.
One is gonna ask the question,
one is gonna record the answers to the questions,
and ask follow-up questions.
So you should have a tag team interviewing the customer.
Have them ask open-ended questions,
you know know how to ask open-ended questions.
They should never argue with a customer,
the customer is always right.
You just try to understand.
You ask them to explain what they mean,
you ask clarifying questions.
And ask them about both sort of hard and soft requirements.
And what I mean by that is there are,
you're making a product,
there are technical specifications for that product.
Suppose to be exactly this wide,
exactly this tall,
exactly this deep.
Whatever the specifications are.
But then there are how you feel about it
and how you feel about how it's delivered.
So, be sure to ask,
'cause people often don't buy,
they go to another supplier based on feelings
as much as facts.
So, ask the facts questions about specifications,
but also ask the feeling questions
about how it's delivered to them
and how they like it, how well it serves them.
Now, this form,
and I'm attaching this to this lecture
as an exercise,
I'd like you to fill this out.
And you see, there are different criteria
down the left-hand column.
And then there's what's the output
that you provide your customer,
what are the customer's requirements for that output
and then what's the variance, the gap?
A variance is a problem,
a variance is something that varies from how it should be.
We're gonna talk about statistical variability later.
But there's just think about a variance
as varied from how the customer would like it.
That's a variance, okay.
So, for that specification,
what's the variance or is there a variance?
So, I'd like you to interview your customers,
fill this out,
and that will be really the beginning,
that'll be why we're improving the process
or what we need to improve the process to.
Does that work for ya?
Thanks a lot.
(light upbeat music)

--- Exercise 12: Know Your Customer's Requirements ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Defining Your Process ---

(lighthearted music)
-: Let's define our processes,
and let's look at different process maps,
and we're gonna map our process,
and then we're going to look for waste
and variances in the process,
and eliminate the waste and eliminate variances.
That's the flow of process improvement.
So first, let's look at some attitudes
of process improvement,
as you approach improving a process.
There are ways of thinking about it.
Now, these attitudes,
I'm gonna go through these very quickly
because we talked about attitudes of problem solving, right?
Well, these are very similar
to attitudes of problem solving.
And the first one is simply to remember
that this is not a blame game.
We were remembering Dr. Deming's quote
about the problems being in the process and not the person.
We're gonna fix the process.
And then the person is most likely able to perform well
if the process is well-defined.
And they know their standard work,
which is defined by the process,
their standard work is a set of activities
that they personally engage in that are part of the flow,
that are part of the set of activities
of the entire process.
So let's focus on the process.
Every process can be improved.
Now, just think about this for half a second.
When Toyota, who's the world's leader in lean manufacturing,
when they hire a brand-new senior manager,
you know what they have them do?
They have them go to manufacturing plant
and sit in what's called the Ohno Circle.
They don't sit, they stand in the, what's called an Ohno.
Ohno was one of the founders of Toyota Production System.
And literally, there's a circle on the floor.
And this even senior manager
stands there for a couple hours with a notepad
to find improvements he can make or she can make.
They even take this senior manager,
there's a Harvard Business Review article by Steven Spears
on how Toyota trains new managers.
It's very interesting.
They take this new senior leader,
they take them to Japan where Toyota production system began
and they have him stand in the Ohno Circle there
and find 10 improvements just watching the process.
This is a good thing to do.
You should do this.
Just stand and watch the process
and demand that you find 10 improvements.
Then, they have this person work with the work teams,
on the work teams, doing real work, right?
On the work teams.
And working with the frontline workers
to institute the improvements
that he or she thought could be made.
And that's a learning experience.
Believe me, you work with your frontline people
to implement improvements.
You'll learn something from them.
They might just learn something from you,
but more likely you'll learn something from them, right?
Now, if Toyota, the world leader in manufacturing processes,
every day is finding improvements in their process,
you can find movements in your processes.
Believe me, there is no process that cannot be improved.
And that's our job.
Our job, as a manager, is to improve our processes.
If you work for me, I'm sure you're glad you don't,
but if you work for me, that's what I'd be asking you about.
I'd be asking you about:
Do you know your process?
Can you define your process?
Do you know what the steps are?
Do you know what the cycle time is?
Do you know where variances occur?
And what improvements have you made
in the last week or the last month?
You should be able to answer that.
Okay.
Problems are normal because that's how we improve processes.
Measuring processes,
we're gonna talk about process measurements.
We actually already did when we talked about team scorecard.
We want measurement of our process, cycle time,
defects, et cetera.
Every process must have a process owner.
If I own the company,
I would map out the entire flow
of all the work that gets done in the company
and break that down into sub-processes, right?
From the macro process to work processes.
And every process, I would be sure that there was a leader
and a team that owned that process
and knew it was their job
to continuously improve that process.
We know what we're doing.
We know our job if we know our processes.
We don't know what we're...
If we don't know our processes,
we don't really know our work, we don't know our job, okay?
The SIPOC, remember that?
That's sort of the biggest, highest level,
most simplistic understanding of a process.
It's the core work process that transforms input to output.
Every core work process is a transformational process.
Stuff comes in and different stuff goes out.
It's transformed, right?
In the restaurant, raw meat comes in.
You don't serve that raw meat to customers.
You do stuff with it, right?
There's a process.
As with all the other stuff that comes in,
it's all transformed.
Cooking is a transformational process.
In every manufacturing plant,
there's a transformational process.
In information processing organizations,
there is a transformational process.
So think about what that process is
that transforms input to output.
Now, process maps.
Why a process map?
Why don't we just write a paragraph describing the process?
The reason is that we are visually responding creatures.
When we lived in caves
or hunting antelope on the Serengeti plains,
we developed an acute sense of our environment.
Why?
Because if there was a tiger hiding behind a bush,
we really needed to know that.
So we learned to see visual stimuli
and respond to visual stimuli.
This is why that cliche
of, "A picture is worth a thousand words,"
is absolutely true.
If I'm gonna travel from here to California
or from here to wherever,
I wanna see a map, I wanna see the roads,
I wanna see whether I'm taking the most direct route.
I want to visualize it, right?
We all have...
Well, a lot of us have GPS in our car now
with the GPS maps,
and we follow the map, don't we?
Well, a process map is literally a picture of the process,
and it not only helps you improve the process,
it helps every member of your team
understand what the process is.
So we wanna create that visual display of our process,
so we can see the flow.
And when we can see the flow,
we see things that can be improved.
I hope that makes sense.
Okay, so here, just a very simplistic process flow.
We're gonna sort of drill down from here,
but you remember you're a team coordinator, let's just say,
and maybe you have three teams or you have one team,
and there's a flow from one team to the next.
So what's team A, what's team B, what's team C?
There is very often work in process between teams.
That's called a buffer, right?
So that if one team speeds up a little,
the other team slows down a little.
We're not hampered, we're not stopped,
we can use that buffer.
But we wanna minimize that buffer, right?
The smoother the flow, the less work in process is needed.
The less of a buffer there is, that's eliminating waste.
If there's excess buffer,
excess pallets, and bins, and warehouses, right?
Or inboxes and outboxes,
either online, virtually, or on your desk literally.
Either way, too much of that is excess buffer.
It's excess waste, right?
So we wanna make the flow as interruption-free, right?
An interruption-free process
would be I do something to it, right?
I put buttons on this,
then I hand it to you and you put the batteries in.
Boom, and I would do one-on-one.
Just one having a buffer, meaning I put them on a tray,
and I put 20 on a tray,
and then the tray goes to you, right?
So there's a buffer of 20.
But the more we can reduce that buffer
we eliminate in-process inventory, which is cost.
We eliminate the potential of creating waste
in the form of a defect that we repeat over and over again.
Because the next person who's doing something with this
is inspecting it.
And if they see something wrong
with the work that I or any previous person has done,
they're gonna stop it and they're gonna say, "Hey."
Better they stop it after one,
rather than stop it after 20, or 100, or 1,000, right?
Because then you're gonna have a lot of junk.
And when we have a lot of junk,
we tend to say, "Eh, pass it on."
Reducing quality,
reducing satisfaction to the customer, right?
So we wanna reduce buffers,
we wanna make the process as interruption-free as possible.
We wanna make sure there are immediate feedback loops
in the process.
All that makes sense?
But we're gonna create a map.
Now, macro maps.
A macro map is a map of the whole bloody company,
or the entire plant if we work in a manufacturing plant,
or entire region, or zone, or department, or whatever.
But here's a map.
I mean, literally, I started this map.
I've kind of neutralized it or sanitized it,
but there were real.
I began this with a real oil company.
But there's a core flow that's that yellow cylinder.
That's the core process,
and it's sort of the creating it,
making it, selling it, idea.
And then the enabling processes.
And even the senior management team
should have a process map.
They should have a process map
of everything the entire company does,
but not every detail,
that's left to the first-level teams
or the second-level teams.
That's where the detail comes,
but the senior team should have a process flow.
Here's a sort of a macro process flow for a hospital.
There's the incoming admission of patients,
and then all the things that happen with the patients
to the time they're discharged, right?
And again, if you were the senior administrator
of a hospital,
you would want to have this flow in your mind.
You'd want to have it on the wall.
And you would wanna know:
Who's the leader of each of these sub-processes?
This, I did this at a university.
The administrative vice president of the university
asked me to help improve all the processes
of everything other than the faculty teaching, right?
But the maintenance of the grounds, the food services,
the information services.
Everything else that goes on in the university
was under the VP of Administration and Finance.
And this map was a macro map
of everything the university did
other than the actual teaching, right?
All the things that served really the customer
was the faculty,
and there was a university faculty,
and there was a hospital on the grounds.
So this was, again, a macro map,
and it's a good place to start.
Let's come back and let's dive into work processes,
the more detailed flow.
(lighthearted music)

--- Mapping Your Work Process ---

(upbeat music)
-: Hi, folks.
Let's drill down to the work process
which is probably where you live
particularly if you're a new manager.
I'm sure this is where you live.
You own a work process
and there is a value stream,
the value creation, right?
That transformational process is a value creating process
hopefully, right?
Otherwise you shouldn't be doing it.
And we're gonna look at, you know
what is that value creating process
and how do we measure that value creating process.
So a work process map defines for the people doing the work,
exactly what that work is.
And if you follow the map,
you should create consistency and reliability and so forth.
Now, let's just look at some different pictures, right?
And try to understand why one picture is
accomplishes one thing and another thing.
Now here's a very simple workflow
and this is planning a conference.
And you might have a project team that, you know
once you have a once a year conference,
let's just say.
And across the top you see the major steps
the major activities in planning a conference.
And that's where you can start.
You can just say, "Okay, what's the first thing we do?"
Well, we define the purpose of the conference
and who we want to come to the conference and so forth.
And then you have all the other sets of activities, right?
In the conference planning.
And for each of those major steps,
you can drill down and you say,
"Okay, well what are the sub steps?
You know, somebody should own each of these steps.
Who owns that?
And then what are the things they're gonna do?
What's the sub things under that?
So that's a very simple map.
I've just drilled down on one of them so you can see it,
but you can imagine you could drill down on each of these.
Now here's again, a very simplistic flow from, you know
input to output customer.
And each of those arrows are steps in a process.
They could be people,
but not necessarily.
You know, it could be that one person does three of them
or there are three people in one of them.
It could be either way,
but they're the major distinct activities
that add up to the value creation process.
Now you see data boxes
and here's where things begin to get interesting.
How do we measure each of the steps in the process?
And there are different possible answers to that
but one answer is cycle time.
Now just wanna define cycle time for you.
From the time...
And just picture a factory,
it's the easiest way.
But you could picture any business really.
But from the time...
Or take a patient, you know
coming into a hospital to the time they go out
or the time they get into a procedure, right?
That's a big issue in hospitals.
How long does it take to admit somebody?
Well, there's a cycle time for that.
But back to the factory, you know,
there's a loading dock
where the raw materials come in, right?
The second the raw materials are taken
out of the truck that begins the cycle time.
To the time they're shipped out,
the end product,
the transformed input is put in a box
and it literally leaves the loading dock
going to a customer.
How long does that take?
Right?
Now you say, whoa, you can't count the time
they sit in a warehouse.
Yes, you can count the time they sit in a warehouse.
In fact, that's a very important time to count.
But if they sit in a warehouse for six months
there's a big cost to that.
You know, you pay for stuff when it comes in, right?
That sits for six months,
you're eating up money, okay?
So better it sits for one day.
Or better, it doesn't sit at all, right?
And just, you know, a real quick example of that,
when I was working at Honda,
they have suppliers nearby, right?
There's a whole supplier system
around Ohio where stuff gets shipped very quickly.
And I was at a company called Stanley
and Stanley makes the headlight taillight assembly.
If you look at a Honda Civic or a Honda Accord
on each of the four corners
there's a headlight or taillight assembly.
It's one piece that gets put in.
That one piece is assembled and created
at Stanley in London, Ohio
20 miles or so down the road.
When I visited Stanley, they have no warehouse.
Well, they sort of have a warehouse.
You know what the warehouse is?
The outgoing warehouse.
It's a semi trailer.
The finished product that goes on a pallet.
Each team, there's their teams making the work cells
making the headlight taillight assembly.
It goes on a laser guided pallet,
laser guided guided pallet goes to the truck,
the semi trailer and the truck leaves every two hours, okay?
It's a two hour pile.
Go to Honda, to the auto assembly plant.
And that truck is delivered
not to a warehouse where they sit,
it's delivered a door opens
and where they're delivered,
guess where that is?
It's right where they get put on
and there's a pile where the workers
are putting those things on.
Do you know how big the pile is?
The answer is it's two hours maximum.
There's a two hour pile.
It's not a one day pile
it's not a two week pile,
it's a two hour pile.
And that's why that truck moves every two hours
because there's a two hour pile there.
And if that truck moves in three hours,
you're in deep trouble because they're out of the...
You can't move the car down the assembly line with that.
So there's very little buffer, right?
This is just in time delivery, right?
So it's very important.
Now, just think of the big process.
There's the process
of making the headlight taillight at Stanley,
that could be one of these arrows,
if you will.
There's a work in process inventory here,
a two hour buffer.
Then there's the the time it takes
to put it on the car, right?
And you can then
if you were doing the whole map for the whole plant,
you do that for every single activity in the plant, right?
And you'd know exactly how long each activity takes
and whatever delays there are between those activities.
Hope that makes sense.
Now, the data boxes
let's look at those a little more closely.
You know, here's a map with all the data boxes filled out.
And those data boxes really define value, right?
That's being created and the cost
of creating that value in terms of time.
Now there are two kinds of cycle times.
There is the total input.
Remember back to the whole plant.
When stuff comes in onto the loading dock,
the incoming stuff,
to the time it goes out,
that time, let's just say it's a week, right?
For hypothetical purposes.
That's the total cycle time.
But then there's a value creating cycle time, right?
The value creating time is always a fraction,
maybe 90%, but it's more likely 10%.
Sometimes it's only 1%.
The value creating cycle time is the actual work time.
Now, if you watch the headlight taillight assembly
being put on the car,
how long does that take?
And it's in seconds, right?
I mean, let's just say it's one minute
for the sake of argument.
But there's a two hour pile.
So the actual work time versus the total cycle time
for that set of activities,
is one minute to two hours.
That ratio.
Does that make sense?
If you look at from the time stuff comes into the plant
to the time it goes out,
hell, let's say it's a week,
and then you really track,
you really followed it.
And this is something that you should do
you should literally physically stand there
and watch it and say,
"What is the actual time of somebody doing something
that adds value to it?"
And it's a fraction of the total time, right?
Because in truth in most work processes,
things spend more time standing still doing nothing
than they do moving and adding value.
So we wanna know what the ratio is
to the actual cycle time,
the value adding cycle time, right?
What is that fraction?
Because that's what we wanna improve.
We wanna improve on that,
and the degree to which we're improving
that we're eliminating waste.
So this is just a set of common measures
and you can just decide
which ones are most relevant to you.
They're the cycle time measures.
There's that ratio, there's changeover
when you have to change a dye press
from one dye to another.
A stamping press from one dye to another,
that's change over time.
There may be other changeovers in your work setting.
I don't know what those would be,
but, you know just examine this and you decide
what are the value measures that are most relevant
to your organization.
Now let's look at a simple process map a couple ways
and I'm gonna take a silly example,
but it's one you can all relate to, I'm sure.
Let's make a spaghetti dinner.
Now you can understand there's a process there, right?
First of all, we have to decide to make a spaghetti dinner
and we have to decide to invite our neighbor, right?
To invite guests.
So that's sort of step number one.
And then if you look down
this sort of linear list of activities,
you see all the different activities, you know
you decide on the menu,
you go shopping, you start cooking the spaghetti sauce,
you cook the meat that goes into it,
you cut up onions and you do a whole lot of things, right?
In this process.
And just look at this for a second.
Just look at this map.
Now, how much information does this give you?
Well, it gives you important information, right?
But now I wanna show you another map that gives you
the exact same steps.
This is what I call a relationship map.
They're the same steps here.
Lemme go back as here.
But now we have something different.
And what do we have?
We have the players in the process
down the left hand side, right?
They're the guests who play in this process.
There's mom, there's dad,
there's daughter, there's son, right?
That's our little family.
And now you can take each of these process steps
that are listed here and now you can put them
on this relationship map
and just stare at this for a second.
And here you see, you know
mom making the decision to invite the guests over.
Here you see the guests coming
and we follow the flow, right?
Dad is making the meal, okay?
And dad goes through all the steps of making the meal.
And then right at step 11,
and 12, and 13,
is where they have dinner, right?
The guests arrive and they have dinner.
And then there's sort of the cleanup afterwards.
And again, you know
just sort of look at who's doing what here
and think about what does this tell you?
Do you have any feelings about this?
Does this tell you anything
about where conflicts might arise
or where skills might be employed?
For example, what assumptions are made in this family?
What values this family has?
This map tells you a lot that are not visualized
in the first map, right?
Most problems in most processes
are relationship problems, right?
If you don't see the flow across the players in the process,
the relationships,
then you don't really understand what's happening
in the process, okay?
So I'm gonna ask you as an assignment,
to make a relationship map.
Take your process, identify, you know
where's the input, where's the output?
Then you can map it out in a linear process
like the first spaghetti making process
or like these previous processes I showed you
where you just see the flow
from supplier to customer, if you will.
But I want you to make it in a relationship map.
Now, you can use software to do this, you know
Vizio does this or there are other software
products that help you make a map.
But here's what I'd really like you to do.
I want you to get your team in the room
and I want you to have them map it out.
And I want you to do it on the wall.
I want you to use Post-it notes
or whatever other pieces of paper.
And I want you to, you know
put on a Post-it note every player in the process
and then a left hand column.
I want you to put the players
and then I want you to identify all the steps.
Now, I'll guarantee you
and this is why I want you to just Post-it notes,
when you identify the first step and the second step,
as soon as you get those first three or four steps up,
somebody will say, "Well, wait a minute
we didn't think of this step, right?
Let's move those back.
Let's put that step in that."
That's the way the brain works, okay?
So you, you wanna be able to move 'em around
you don't wanna make 'em in cement, right?
So with your team, study the process.
And as you're doing that,
ask yourself what you're learning.
What's the team learning?
And you will hear them ask questions like,
well, why do you do that?
Why doesn't he do that?
I can do that.
You know, they'll be learning
about their relationships and they'll be learning
about their process and it will,
you know, it'll be messy.
I want it to be messy.
Don't try to make it clean and neat.
Make it messy.
That's the way real people work.
Looking at their process.
This picture right here,
this process had 156 I think steps in it.
And it was the entire process
of home service delivery...
Of home delivering home nursing to a client
of mine in Canada.
But they mapped out the entire process,
a very big process.
Your process is probably not that big.
It's probably a sub-process like this woman
is working on right here.
But do your process map
and you're gonna map the current state, right?
And when you map the current state,
you play Sergeant Friday.
Just the facts,
nothing but the fact.
We don't need to talk about what it should be,
what it could be.
If you have an idea about what it could or should be
put that on a parking lot, right?
Have people write down Post-it notes
and have a area over on this side of the wall
that just says parking lot.
Their ideas for improvement
but first you gotta have the facts.
So map out how it really gets done.
And you know, you can look at our making spaghetti dinner
or any other process map.
And you say, "Well, hey wait a minute,
how come dad does all this work?"
Right?
You know, "Why doesn't mom do this work?"
Or "How old are these kids anyway?"
Maybe the kid, right?
Anyway, all those ideas will come to you
as you're mapping the current state.
So that's the, the first step
in improving the process is the discovery process
that comes when you and your team,
the players in the process,
create the map.
They gain understanding
and find opportunities for improvement.
Go do that.
Thanks.
Then let's come back and let's talk about, you know
a larger process for improvement
and how we can work on eliminating waste
and improving cycle time and all those things.
Thanks.
(upbeat music)

--- Eliminating Waste from Your Process ---

(bright music)
-: Hi again, friends.
Now that you know your customer requirements,
now that you've mapped your process,
you've looked at cycle time,
now it's time to find and eliminate waste.
And I want you to understand waste,
because it's an important concept,
particularly if you've read about Lean manufacturing
or Lean healthcare.
This term, Lean, it all comes from Toyota Production System.
And it's worth understanding
where Toyota Production System began,
because it illustrates exactly what waste is.
First of all, waste is not people.
People are not waste.
So when you think about eliminating waste,
you ought not be thinking about eliminating people.
You should be thinking about eliminating
the unnecessary things that people do,
usually not by their own fault,
but because of the nature of the process.
Let's go to Toyota about 50 years ago,
and there was a man named Shigeo Shingo,
who was the manufacturing or engineering head at Toyota,
and he observed a stamping press.
And you have to picture a stamping press.
It's a big thing.
A flat sheet of sheet metal goes in,
and the stamping press comes down,
and by stamping it, think of a cookie cutter.
You know, when you're making Christmas cookies,
little Santa Clauses or Christmas trees or something,
you stamp out from the cookie dough
the shape of the cookie you want, right?
Well, a stamping press is exactly the same thing,
just on a much larger scale and with metal.
It stamps out the shape of a left front fender
or a right front fender or the bumper,
or some other shape that's part of your car.
Well, Shigeo Shingo watched the stamping press in operation
and the team of people working around the stamping press.
Now, he had been to the River Rouge plant of Ford
in Dearborn, Michigan.
This was in the old days of Ford, not today's days of Ford.
It's a big difference.
But in the old days of Ford,
the machine operators operating a stamping press,
there's a die.
Let me just back up one second.
There's a die that,
like think of the different cookie cutters, right?
The different shapes.
Well, the die is what is the shape,
and the stamping press is the big hydraulic thing
that pushes it down,
and you change dies for different parts.
I'm sure that makes sense, like different shapes of cookies.
And at Ford, when he observed the stamping press operation,
the press operators were specialized.
Remember this was sort of part of the mass production model
where every worker had very specialized jobs,
and unions, for some reason, bought into this whole idea
that everybody should have a very specialized job,
and you only do your own work.
You don't do what somebody else does.
And the press operators did not change the dies.
That was a different department in the plant.
There were specialized die change workers,
die change supervisor, die change department manager,
and it took on average about 24 hours to get a die changed.
Now, if it's gonna take 24 hours to change dies,
how many parts are you gonna make before changing a die?
Are you gonna make 10 parts?
I mean, the press comes down, boom, boom, stamped, right?
You're gonna just do 10 of 'em,
and then wait 24 hours for the dye to be changed?
Of course not.
You're gonna have a long run, right?
Because you don't wanna wait.
You don't want the machine standing around waiting
for 24 hours while you're trying to change the die.
Now if you're gonna have a long production run,
you have to put this stuff somewhere, right?
So it would, you know, you'd go on a pallet, let's say,
and the forklift would come
and would drive it into the warehouse,
and then on the assembly line, when they needed that part,
another forklift would go to the warehouse
and bring a pallet of them and put them there.
So you had to have the forklifts,
you had a forklift drivers, you had to have a warehouse,
you had to have all that stuff
that goes along with making a lot of them, okay?
Now, Shingo thought, you know,
but what if we could change dies in a minute
rather than 24 hours?
And they'd go, "Well, that's insane.
I mean, it takes more than a minute
to call the department that changes dies."
And he said,
"Yeah, but what if you just eliminated
that whole department?"
He played a lot of what-ifs, right?
And he talked to the workers.
This is critical.
He talked to the workers operating the press,
and he empowered them, he engaged them,
he respected them, important words,
and he asked them, he showed them the data.
He showed them, remember Mary, you know, in my textile mill?
Well, Shingo showed them the data
of what he considered the actual time of production.
Now, for one part, if you watch the workers work,
they're working hard, but they're lifting this,
and they're moving this, and they're...
And they're moving it in,
and then they're taking it out, and they're lifting it here,
and there's all that time.
But Shingo said the actual value-adding time
is just that time, boom, boom,
when the press stamps the part.
Everything else, he said, is waste.
Now, this is a very strict definition
of what is value-adding and what is waste.
'Cause if you ask the workers, they say,
"What are you talking about?
I have to lift this.
I have to move this.
I have to...
You know, I have to do all these things.
That's part of the job.
That's not waste."
Well, yeah, they have to do those things,
'cause that's the way the process is today,
but much of that stuff isn't value-adding.
So he started to ask them, "Well, what could you do?"
Well, first of all, you know,
if we had a tray where we had the sheet metal,
I'd have to walk over there and get a piece of sheet metal.
The sheet metal was stacked here,
and it was sort of on a spring-loaded platform,
where as I took one off, it would rise up,
and I could just slide it in, you know?
Or maybe it would automatically slide in, right?
I wouldn't have to go get it,
but they would just go, boom, boom, boom, boom,
sort of like that.
It would save me a lot of time and a lot of effort.
It's an idea.
Maybe we could do that.
Long story short, very long story,
a 40-year story of continuous improvement,
continuously seeking to eliminate non-value-adding time.
The last time I was in Marysville, Ohio,
and it's been a while, at the Honda plant,
they have what they called,
said they told me was the world's largest stamping press.
I don't know whether that's still true or not,
but that's what they said at the time.
And there was a flip chart next to the press,
and it had written on it just with a magic marker, 0.54.
Do you know what the 0.54 was?
It was 54 seconds to change dies
on the world's largest stamping press.
From 24 hours 50 years earlier at Ford,
to today, less than a minute die changeover.
Now that's the elimination of waste,
and that's where the concept comes from.
But it's not thinking about, you know,
I'm just eliminating costs, I'm eliminating salaries.
That's cut out a worker.
That's the old management consulting phony way
of eliminating waste or improving operations,
which didn't really improve operations.
It often resulted in worse operations and worse quality.
So that was the beginning of the Toyota Production System
or what we call now Lean management,
and it doesn't come from just sort of hammering the thing.
It comes from thinking,
and it comes from respecting the workers
who are the best observers
of how that work process gets done.
So let's look at the different kinds of waste
that Toyota talked about,
and maybe these kind of wastes are relevant to your work,
and maybe they're not.
Maybe you can think of the different forms of waste
that occur in your work setting.
And I'm gonna talk about management waste, by the way,
in the next lecture, 'cause there is that too, believe me.
But one form of waste.
There are seven forms of waste,
and there are Japanese terms for each of these
that some consultants like to throw around,
but I think that's just annoying to me.
But anyway, here are the seven forms of waste.
First one is excess inventory,
which means excess space in the warehouse,
and it also means that if you have 1,000 of them stacked up
versus, you know, a two-hour pile
that I talked about at Honda,
you're likely to have more defects.
When you discover a defect, you got a lot of garbage,
rather than just a little bit of garbage.
So the excess inventory has several forms of cost.
There's cost of space,
there's the actual cost of the stuff
that you have in the warehouse that you paid for,
but there's also cost in terms of defects.
Excess motion.
The guy having to walk over there
versus having the thing just lift up automatically.
You eliminated excess motion.
Think about motion.
Think about whether things are organized in a way,
and this is part of the 5S idea
of creating an orderly workspace
where tools are where they belong
and we know where they belong, and we can see them,
and they're neat and they're orderly,
so when I need one, I know exactly where to go to get it.
I don't waste any time.
I don't waste any motion.
Transportation.
The further we have to transport things,
and that's often within the facility.
It's that forklift moving stuff around.
Maybe we organize the line of work,
so the people doing work are right next to each other.
They can talk to each other.
They can move things instantly.
They don't have to walk around, wander around.
You know, we often organize things
in a way that maximize the need
for transportation, moving stuff.
Defects.
Whenever we have a defect,
and this is this is the cost of quality
or the cost of bad quality.
When we have a defect,
that's something we both wasted the materials involved.
We wasted the time of people making something
that can't be used,
but we also create rework.
You know, if I make one of these,
and it doesn't work, it's bad,
I have to make another one, right?
So there's a cost of redoing, rework,
and unfortunately people have become habituated to defects.
You know, this is the old story of US auto companies.
The workers in the plants were so disaffected,
disconnected from being respected in the work setting
that they would just pass defects on, not caring about it.
Well, that's the ultimate crime
and that's the ultimate failure of a system of work,
because the system of work must be such
that every employee on your team and in your system
cares deeply about any defect
and can stop the work to correct the defect.
Waiting time, anytime somebody has to stand.
You know, I love the story
where the leader of an American hospital went to Japan
and he explained all the waiting rooms.
I love it.
In a hospital, we have waiting rooms.
You have to wait here, you have to wait there,
you have to wait there, you have to wait.
And in the hospital complex,
they had 50-something waiting rooms,
and the Japanese executive just looked at him and said,
"Aren't you ashamed?"
And they said, "Yeah, actually,
when I think about it, I really am ashamed."
When people are sick, we should not keep them waiting.
But also in our production processes,
we should not have waiting time.
Overproduction.
You know what overproduction produces?
It produces stuff standing still,
stuff waiting, if you will,
but if we make too much,
and this is the idea in a Toyota Production System
of tack time, which is the idea of pull through, right?
Where you only make what's being demanded by customers
with the minimum amount of buffer,
work in process in between.
But the beat of the drum
that generates the production process
is the customer, right?
And it's a pull system rather than a push system.
US auto companies used to work on a push system.
We would make a ton of them.
We send 'em out to the dealers,
and we pray they can sell 'em.
They can't sell 'em, we give 'em incentives.
We reduce the price, right?
As opposed to actually watching what customers are buying,
and then producing that color, that model,
you know, that set of options in a car
based on the pull of the customer.
That reduces overproduction.
Excess processing time.
Anytime we can speed an operation,
the actual work flow by more skilled workers.
Very often, workers don't have the skill
or workers don't care,
or workers are not engaged in continuous improvement,
and we increase processing time.
So those are the seven forms of waste.
Look at your process, your process flow, and search,
search for the seven forms of waste.
Walk through the process.
Go and see, go to the gemba.
Go where the work is, watch it.
See if you can find those forms of waste.
Look at these two sheets.
First look at...
And I've attached these as an exercise to this section.
This is a waste elimination sheet,
and the next one is a waste improvement sheet.
List the steps in the process.
List the cycle time.
List the real work time, the value-added cycle time
versus the actual cycle time and the percent.
And go through and analyze it
and find ways that you can eliminate waste in the process.
Do that exercise with your team.
I think you'll find it enormously valuable,
and I'm positive you'll be able to find waste
in your process, whatever your process is.
Thanks.
(bright music)

--- Eliminating Management Waste ---

(gentle upbeat music)
-: Hi again, friends.
Let's talk about management waste.
You know, just like we have leader standard work
because the same principles we're gonna apply
to our employees, we should be applying to ourself.
And just as we should think that, you know, every worker,
every employee, team member has standard work,
we should also have standard work.
Well, similarly, we're gonna look for waste
on the first level, we should be looking for how
we waste time or effort or money, different forms of waste
that are characteristic of managers.
And you know, over the last 40 plus years,
I've worked with a lot of senior leadership teams
in a lot of corporations.
And I am telling you that the forms of waste
at the senior levels, at management levels produce more cost
and more problems for the organization
than that at the bottom.
But they think because while I've been promoted up,
I must be above that.
I must somehow be exempt from creating waste.
Wrong!
Managers can create huge amounts of waste.
Believe it or not, I worked with an oil company
that spent a billion dollars there, rounded off, right,
thereabouts, drilling for oil in a central African country.
And they found it.
But then when they started thinking about how to produce it,
how to transport it, there was no pipeline
and to get to a port you had to go through on either side,
a country with which this country was at war,
meaning you couldn't, so you couldn't get it out.
And they'd spent a billion dollars finding it.
Well, hallelujah, they found it
but it was waste because you couldn't produce it.
Now, you know, you'd think
they would've thought of that, right?
But they didn't, they didn't think ahead,
they didn't strategize.
So there is waste, believe me at senior levels
in the organization.
Now, let's just list, I have six forms of management waste
and you know, you can think about which ones apply
to your organization and you can seek
to reduce them, I hope.
First one is sucking decisions up from those people
who are actually expert in what needs to be decided.
We have a tendency in our organizations to desire
to make decisions that ought to be made at a lower level.
This is what Dr. Deming called tampering.
Management should stop tampering with the work of others.
Get outta the way and let the people, empower the people,
train the people.
At the first level, the best decision making
is at the lowest possible level, the level of competence.
Because very often we suck decisions up to a level
of incompetence where they don't know how to do
what they do down there.
So let's make decisions at the right level,
which means empowering people at the lowest possible level.
That eliminates a lot of waste.
Displaying contradictory models.
Now, let me say this in the strongest possible terms.
I've led change processes
in many dozens of major corporations,
and one of the first things I tell the leadership team,
if you wanna work with me,
and I may not be the right consultant for you,
but if you wanna work with me, I have a requirement.
And that requirement is that you provide leadership.
And I want to tell you what leadership means.
Leadership means you doing the same things
we're gonna ask teams to do down at the lower levels
because they're going to look at you
and they're gonna model your behavior.
So if you are behaving in a contrary way,
the effort cannot succeed at lower levels.
So will you provide that leadership?
They usually say yes because will you provide leadership?
If you think you're a leader, you usually say yes to that.
But I also warn them that I'm gonna let them
know when they're not.
And I then take them through learning
how to do plan, do, check, act,
learning how to develop a team scorecard,
learning how to identify and map their work processes.
And even at the senior level, they have work processes.
So modeling is absolutely critical.
And when you present contrary models,
you're creating wasted effort at every level
in the organization.
Okay, not that I have strong feelings about that.
The failure to define and manage your own processes.
Well that's, that goes along with that, doesn't it?
Modeling good process management at management levels.
The failure of decision making.
Now, this is, again, you think, well,
you become a senior manager now you ought to know
how to make decisions well.
Well, very often decisions get made at management levels
that are not fact-based.
They don't play Sergeant Friday
they don't gather the facts,
they don't look at the data and make fact-based decisions.
It's very common and that creates waste.
We waste space and resources.
When Fiat bought Chrysler, they went
to the Chrysler building in Detroit
and there was a whole floor of the building
that was the executive boardroom floor.
Took a whole floor for a few people.
Why?
And what they did, they eliminated that whole floor.
When I worked at Honda, Mr. Irimajiri,
the president, has a desk that looks like
everybody else's desk, sits out in an open office area,
has no private offices.
Most private offices are waste.
They enable you to not have to think about
what the real value adding people are doing.
Get out there, get out where the work gets done.
Eliminate all that phony, celebratory space that you create
for yourself that makes yourself feel like you're important.
Well, that's all nonsense.
That's not how high performing organizations
or high performing managers function.
So wasted, that's wasted space and resources.
The failure of trust.
When we create distrust,
if I tell you something that is not true,
and it has happened in corporations where leaders
have said things that people then find out are not true,
people then tend not to follow.
They tend not to be dedicated.
They tend to not be willing to sacrifice
for that which they do not trust.
So creating trust, creating social capital as it is called
is an asset in every organization
and destroying social capital, destroying trust.
You destroy people's willingness to follow.
And that is a form of waste.
Think about those forms of waste in your own organization.
Thanks.
(gentle upbeat music)

--- Reducing Variances and Variability ---

(gentle music)
-: Hi again, folks.
Process variability and variances create waste.
Let's look at what it means,
what a variance means and what variability means,
and how we can seek to reduce those.
'Cause if we reduce those,
we improve the quality, the effectiveness of our processes.
Now a variance, just let me define that term.
And it's not so much a technical,
you know, it's not a statistical term.
There is statistical variability,
we'll talk about that in a minute.
But there is the general term of variances
as used in process improvement.
And a variance really is anything
that is operating different or performing differently
than it should perform.
The gap between the current performance,
the current behavior,
and the optimum behavior is a variance.
It varies from, right?
That's a gap analysis, if you will,
I guess you could call it that also.
So we wanna identify and reduce variances.
And here are six types of variances.
There may be variances from specifications,
you know, you're making a widget
and it's supposed to be this long,
but it's this long or it's this long, you know,
it varies from exactly what the specifications should be.
And many of the things we make have to fit something.
They may have to fit a computer.
They may have to fit,
you know, some other software program.
And if the specifications of a piece of software
don't match that to which they must fit,
that's basically a defect, right?
I mean, that's a variance in specifications.
There's variance in cycle time.
We've talked a lot about that.
And you understand the difference between
the value adding cycle time
and the actual cycle time, right?
Well, that gap is a variance
and there's always a variance there
in virtually any process at all.
There's variance from customer requirements, right?
The way we do things today,
I mean our customer's actually 100% delighted,
probably not, right?
There's some gap, there's some variance
between what the customer ideally would like
and what the current state is.
There's variance from cost of production
or service delivery.
Now, you know, we have to be cost-conscious,
because every work system there's a social system,
a technical system, and an economic system.
And we have to attend both to the technical system
like specifications of the product,
the social system how people think, feel, and act,
how they behave.
But we also have to pay attention to the economic system
because business is about making money, I'm sorry.
It's an uncomfortable reality
but more money has to come in and goes out.
So there is variance from what could be
in terms of the economic performance
of the system or the process
versus what is.
There may be variance from our principles.
And let's just talk about that for a second.
What does that mean?
Well, if we say for example,
that we believe it is our principle
that decisions should be made at the lowest possible level.
People understand that principle,
they come to believe it, they expect it.
If now decisions are sucked up
and they're not being made at the lowest possible level,
that's a variance from our principle.
If our principle is
that we will involve those who know, those who care,
and those who must act in decision making on our team,
but we don't, we behave differently than that,
we're behaving in a way contrary to our principles,
that erodes the principle, right?
The principle then becomes unimportant,
unbelievable if you will,
so that then becomes a variance to our principles.
There are variances in terms of standards of work
and standards of behavior.
We create standard work and leader standard work
because we believe that's the best possible way
to do something.
So if we're not behaving that way,
if we say that
every day we're gonna be out on the shop floor
talking to people for an hour a day,
half an hour a day, some period of time,
but for three days we don't show up,
that's a variance, right?
Any time we're not behaving according to
standardized definitions of how we ought to behave,
that's a variance.
So those are all forms of variance.
Now I just wanna talk about statistical variation.
And God help you,
I'm not going to give you a course on statistics
and I would not be the right person to do it.
But there's an essential understanding
that even I can convey.
And a simple way to think about it is,
you know, Dr. Deming talked a lot about
standard cause and special causes of variability,
of variation from a mean, right?
And we wanna look at that on a graph.
But an easy way to understand it first is
if you have a gun,
and I know people some people don't like to talk about guns,
but just bear with me for a second
maybe you can think of other example.
But if I have a gun and I vise it down,
I put it in a vise and it's not moving,
you can trust that it's not moving.
And there's a target, a bullseye over there,
and I aim the gun at the target,
and I pull off one shot.
And the shot falls, you know,
six inches to the lower left let's just say,
what do I do?
Do I adjust the gun?
No, pull off another shot.
That shot falls above the bullseye.
Now the bullseye is 200 feet away, okay?
It's not up here, it's 200 feet away.
Each time I pull off the,
even though by the sights I have it aimed right at it,
the bullets don't fall in the same place do they?
Anybody who knows guns knows this is true.
Bullets don't all fall in the same place.
If you pull off 20 shots or 50 shots, what do you see?
You see a pattern, right?
And now somewhere in that pattern there's a middle point.
You can call that middle point the mean.
You know, the mean of where they fell,
the average of where the bullets fell.
But they didn't fall in, they vary.
There's variability in the output of every system.
Every system, a school, a manufacturing plant,
a sales force, software development,
the production the output of that system
is never a straight line.
It's never every bullet falling.
You know, the only way you're gonna get
every bullet to fall into the bullseye,
you better pull the target like right up here,
then they'll all fall.
But that's just bad data, right?
Now if I want,
let's just say that the pattern is like this,
but I want the pattern to be like this.
Maybe I yell at the worker.
Maybe I try to motivate the worker,
the guy pulling the trigger.
Will that help?
No, it won't help.
It won't help.
In fact what he's likely to do is
he then keep adjusting the gun.
You know what's gonna happen?
The pattern's gonna go like this,
variability's gonna increase,
because you're tampering with the system.
You're not improving the system.
The only way you're gonna get the bullets to fall
with less variability,
you're gonna have to redesign the system.
You're gonna have to make
the barrel on the gun longer, okay?
That tends to bring the pattern in.
Now maybe we want a gun with a very short barrel,
okay but then we sacrifice variability, right?
You want less variability,
you add on to the length of the barrel.
Maybe there are other things that you can do.
But just think about the nature of the system,
and the nature of the output of the system,
and the variability that is inherent
in that system and in every system,
and then we think about how to reduce that variability.
Now just look at this graph.
And on this graph we have variation, right?
And here we can see what is variation that is
what Dr. Deming called common cause
and what he calls special cause.
This is how long it takes you to drive to work each morning.
And try it out, you know, you drive to work
and on average let's just say it takes you half an hour
to get from your home to work.
Does it take you exactly a half an hour every day?
Of course not.
It varies, based on what?
Based on the traffic,
based on whether a car broke down
and blocked one of the lanes on the road.
And there are all kinds of things,
based on the weather, right?
Based on, you know, maybe even the the day of the week.
There's always variability in that system like my gun,
like in any system.
Now within the control limits,
you can see what Dr. Deming would call common cause.
Common to the system, normal to that system.
But then, you know, when you see it go up like that,
that's outside the control limits that's special cause.
That's like, there's something really wrong.
Your car broke down or something really happened that where
you know, on average it takes you to half an hour
but it really varies between 20 minutes and 40 minutes
let's just say.
But one day it takes an hour and a half.
Well that's not normal in the system, right?
That's special cause of variation.
Now, why does this matter?
Because you need to be expert
in your process, in your system,
and you need to study that graph.
You need to study what the variability is in your system.
And you need to understand what common cause is, right?
What's normal for that system?
And then you have to ask the question
how do I improve the system, the process,
which may be people or may be machinery, right?
But how do I improve the system to reduce
the common causes of variability?
And when there is special cause,
which is like a defect, right?
Something really went wrong.
What's the cause of that?
And how do I eliminate that?
So study the causes of variation.
And here's a variance analysis worksheet
where you can list the variances that occur.
And with your team, brainstorm.
You know, what is the data telling us?
What are the causes of the variances
or the variation in our system?
And how can we correct for those?
Now that's a very simple explanation
but I want you to think about that,
I want you to start using it as something you can explore,
you know, a lot deeper with
statistical process control and other tools.
But begin to study your data for variability and variation.
Thank you.
(gentle music)

--- Exercise 13: Eliminating Waste ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Summary, Certification and Celebration! ---

(bright music)
-: Hi, guys. You've done it.
You've completed the course.
If you went through this
and you completed all the exercises, you've learned a lot.
I know you've learned a lot,
and you've done a hell of a lot of work,
and you deserve a lot of credit.
I really appreciate.
I'm very sincere about this.
I appreciate the effort that you have put in.
I know that you, today, are a far better manager,
a far better leader, and your team is a better team
than you were at the beginning of this journey,
and you deserve credit for that.
I wanna send you this certificate.
I wanna award you your Green Belt.
Please email me your portfolio of exercises,
and I will send this to you by email.
You'll have to print it out
and put it on the wall yourself, but you deserve it.
And I also wanna send you
copies of my three most recent books,
"The Lean Coach," "Team Kata,"
which is on lean teams and developing teams,
and "Getting to Lean,"
which is about developing the organization
and the organizational systems,
designing the organizational systems.
So I hope you'll enjoy those.
I hope they're worthy gifts.
And again, I just really, really appreciate what you've done
in going through the course.
Thanks a lot.
Write to me.
I'd love to hear from you.
(bright music)
(bright music fades)
