

=== What to Expect ===


--- Welcome to Practical Leadership by Chris Croft ---

-: Hello, my name's Chris Croft.
Welcome to this leadership course.
Congratulations for deciding to
go into the subject and learn more about it.
Whether you're a brand new leader
in charge of some people, or whether you've been doing it
for a while and you want to get even better at it,
I hope this course covers some really useful stuff.
I've put every theory that I know about leadership
into here, or at least all my favorite ones.
I've been teaching leadership for about 20 years now.
I usually have a day or two days to cover it,
but I've boiled all the best bits
down into this course for you.
So hope you like it.
The course is divided into three sections.
We've got what is leadership?
We've got a section on motivation,
and then we've got a section on leadership styles.
So let's get started.

--- John Adair's Matrix ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== What is a Leader? ===


--- What is the difference between Leadership and Management? ---

-: Now this first section is called, "What is Leadership?"
It's actually quite a hard thing to define.
There are hundreds of books written about leadership,
lots of famous leaders giving their opinion
on what it really is.
And there's even a debate about
leadership versus management.
Is management a subset of leadership
or leadership a subset of management?
I'm not sure if it really matters that much.
I think most managers have to be a leader
as well as a manager.
I think leaders are probably a bit keener
on vision and motivation than managers.
Managers are more about efficiently carrying out
processes and more to do with measurement and systems,
but you have to do both.
So, why worry too much about the difference between
leadership and management?
But in this section we're gonna have a look at
what leadership involves and I hope that
will make it clearer for you.


=== Motivation ===


--- What makes a good leader? People, systems and vision ---

-: So whenever I'm trying to think
about what a great leader should do,
I always come back to my captain of the ship story.
I think this is a really important story,
which I'm gonna tell you now.
So I want you to imagine that you're going on a cruise,
quite a big ship, may be 200 people,
and as you come up the gang plank,
the captain welcomes you by name to the to the ship,
and he's welcoming everyone.
He goes, "Louise, good to see you.
"Miles, welcome to the cruise.
"Sally, great, come on in,"
and he knows the name of everybody on site
as they approach his ship,
and you think, that's amazing, how does he do that?
Once you're on board, you have a look,
and you find that what he does is he looks
at every passport,
and he memorizes the face and the name of every passenger
so that he can greet them personally,
because he cares about customer care.
So you think, well, that's great,
he's obviously a good captain,
and you go down to your cabin.
When you get to your cabin,
there's a little folded cardboard sign on your pillow,
and it says, "Dear Dave," or whatever,
"Your bed was made for you personally by the captain,
"because he caress about quality,"
and you think, well, that's a bit freaky.
Does he make every bed on the ship?
He can't have time for that.
Has he made just mine, in which case, why?
Has he chosen me at random?
Does he like me?
What's going on?
So you kind of think that's a bit odd,
and of course, the best way to ensure quality on the ship
is not to make every bed yourself.
It's to make sure there's a system
for training the bed-makers, which we'll come back to.
So you'll begin to wonder, is he a good captain or not?
He clearly cares about customer care and quality,
but does that make him a good captain?
So anyway, you've tried to put that out of your mind.
You get changed, you go down to dinner,
and your meal is served to you by a whole load of waiters
in very smart, black and white outfits,
and then you think, hang on a minute,
I recognize that waiter,
and of course, it's the captain, serving the soup.
He likes to serve the soup every night,
because he likes to be in touch with the workers,
in touch with his staff,
and I don't mean workers in any derogatory way, by the way.
I mean, they're great, they're the ones who do the work.
So you are thinking, well, you know, that's a bit weird.
The captain's serving the soup.
I mean, it's great that he's in touch with the workers,
but who's steering the ship while the captain
is serving my dinner?
So after your meal, which is very delicious, by the way,
you decide to find out who is steering the ship.
Maybe it's being steered by a bed-maker or a waiter?
So on your way to the bridge,
not very anatomically correct, this,
but anyway, you go past the engine room,
and the door to the engine room is slightly ajar,
and in the dark, and all the steam and noise
of the engine room,
just illuminated by the orange glow of the furnace,
you can see a figure shoveling coal into the boiler,
and of course, it's the captain,
'cause the normal boiler-stoker is off sick,
and the captain, who used to be a champion
boiler-stoker himself, has said, "No worries.
"I don't mind getting my hands dirty,"
so he's gone to stoke the boiler.
So we're really worrying about who's steering the ship now,
and even though the captain cares about customer care,
he cares about quality, he's in touch with the workers,
he's got the biggest muscles on the ship
from his boiler-stoking activities,
he's not afraid to get his hands dirty.
Despite all these things, we're thinking
he might not be a very good captain.
Anyway, so you go on up to the the bridge,
and of course, there's nobody there,
and the ship is just drifting at random,
and in fact, there are icebergs dotted around,
and the ship is heading towards one of the icebergs.
So at this point, you start thinking, oh no,
I'm gonna have to steer the ship, what do I do?
So anyway, you take the wheel,
and you're about to turn the ship actually the wrong way,
when the captain comes running up from the boiler,
and still a bit sweaty, and he grabs the wheel,
and he just manages to swerve the ship
and avoid the iceberg,
and he goes, "Whew, that was a close one," (grunts)
"thought we were a goner then."
Still, anyway, it worked out fine in the end,
that's the main thing,
and then he says, "Oh, I love this job.
"It's so exciting, there's never a dull moment,"
and what do you thinking?
'Cause I'm thinking, he's not a very good captain.
I don't want a captain who cares
about quality customer care, workers,
biggest muscles, gets his hands dirty.
All I want is a captain who's on the bridge
making sure everything's all right.
I don't want him to actually do any of those things,
I want him to delegate all that stuff.
So a good boss is not somebody who's always
running around doing things,
it's somebody who's in control.
I used to work for a boss once,
and he used to drive the forklift truck
in the evening, sometimes.
If a lorry needed loading, he'd get on the truck and help,
and everyone thought he was great, and he loved doing it,
but actually, he was a rubbish boss.
He should have been in his office thinking
about next year's strategy or whatever.
So the essence of management isn't to just do
everybody else's jobs and become the highest paid waiter
on the ship while the ship goes into an iceberg.
The essence of management is to make sure
that everything's being done to build a machine of people
that will do the job for you.
Building a machine of people,
I think that's what leadership's all about,
and if you think about the areas the captain has to cover,
it's people, systems, and vision.
So he's gotta make sure that he's got the right people
in the right jobs, and they're motivated,
he's gotta make sure that the system works,
there's a system for everything,
so the bed-making, is there a quality control system?
Is everybody trained?
Is there traceability?
If there's a problem with a bed,
can he trace it back to who made it, and retrain them?
So there should be a system for everything,
and then there should be a vision
for where the company's going.
So people, systems, and vision are the three things
that the captain has got to do,
and if he doesn't do those, then there'll be problems.
So if the ship does run aground, it's the captain's fault,
and now, what about if the captain is nipped
into the toilet for five minutes,
and somebody else is steering, and the ship runs aground?
Who gets court-martialed?
Can he blame the temporary person who's steering?
The answer is no, 'cause he chose that person,
and he put them in charge of steering
while he was in the toilet.
So the captain is always responsible, even when he's asleep,
even when he's unconscious, ill for a week.
He can't use that as an excuse,
because he is supposed to have set up the systems
and made sure he's got the right people,
so he is actually responsible for everything on the ship.
Everything's management's fault.
So if the soup is a bit salty, that's the captain's fault.
He can't blame the chef,
he's supposed to have got a good chef.
He's supposed to have checked on the chef
by sampling the soup occasionally.
If one bed is not made, it's the captain's fault,
because he should have put a good manager
in charge of the bed-making,
and he should have made sure that that manager has a system.
So everything's management's fault,
and everything is therefore the captain's fault.
So in a way, he does nothing,
'cause he stands around on the bridge, saying,
"Are the beds being made?
"Do we have a system for the beds?"
So in a way, that's all he does,
but in another way, he's responsible
for everything on the ship.
Now, suppose he's got everything running really smoothly,
and all the systems are running,
the people are great, everything just works,
which I think most chips are probably like.
What happens if he's standing on the bed,
going, "Everything okay?"
And it all is,
and a disgruntled bed-maker, who thinks,
"Ugh, that captain, he gets paid loads and he does nothing.
"He just stands around on the bridge."
The disgruntled bed-maker pushes the captain off,
into the sea,
and he falls into the sea, and he drowns.
What will happen?
By the way, this is only pretend, don't worry.
What will happen to the ship?
And the answer is absolutely nothing, to start with.
People won't even notice that the captain isn't there.
Perhaps after a few days, they might think, hmm,
haven't seen the captain for a while,
but because they're good people, they're trained,
they've got their systems,
they actually don't need the captain anymore.
So nothing will happen to start with,
but of course, we still do need the captain,
because longer term, we will miss the captain,
because what will happen in a few months time
is that the environment will change,
and therefore, we'll need new systems,
and we'll need a different vision as well,
and the environment could be our competitors,
it could be our customers or whatever,
but also, the people will gradually become out of date.
They'll become bored, they won't be motivated anymore,
(clears throat) or the work they're required to do
will change subtly,
and so the arrangement of people constantly needs
tinkering with to keep it as good as it can be.
So we will start to notice that the captain is missing
after a few weeks or a few months,
so if you've got a boss who, when he or she goes on holiday,
you think, well, I don't really miss them,
that doesn't prove that they do nothing.
It actually means they're a good boss.
The place should run for a week or two without the boss,
and I'm always amazed on training courses,
when it's just a one-day course,
and you've got people on the phone every interval,
every coffee or tea break,
"Yeah, yeah, it's on the third shelf along.
"Yes, it's in the blue folder.
"Yeah, tell him he can have it.
"No, tell him you've gotta, he's gotta pay
"an extra five quid," and you just think,
they can't do without that person for just quarter of a day,
and really, everything should run absolutely fine
without that boss.
He shouldn't need to be phoning back base the whole time.
Now, we're gonna come to delegation,
look at it in more detail later,
but it's absolutely key.
I think the essence of a manager is somebody
who has set everything up well so that it runs,
or somebody who's trying to set up all the systems
and get all the people right so it will just run itself.
That's what we want to see.
So people, systems, and vision, a machine of people,
that's the essence of what a leader is all about.


=== Leadership Styles Part 1 ===


--- Is Everything Management's Fault? ---

-: Now in this part of the course,
I just want to explore this idea
of everything's management's fault
because is it really?
Am I allowed to tell a tell a customer to (censored),
and then say, "Oh, yeah,
that was my boss's fault that I did that"?
Now I think in a way, yes, I can say it was my boss's fault
because my boss employed me.
My boss failed to motivate me,
failed to train me that it's a bad idea,
and my boss has failed to fire me,
you know, if I've done it before.
So you could argue that
although people should take individual responsibility,
of course, nearly everything
is everything's management's fault.
So let's have a look.
Now, a few years ago, there was a train crash in the UK,
and it was because the guy
who was meant to do some maintenance
on the points went home early on a Friday afternoon.
So he went home early.
He left the railway track with a fault in it,
and a train crashed, and one person got killed.
Now the question is, whose fault is that?
Should the guy who went home early be fired?
And when I ask this on training courses,
people always say, "Well, yes, of course he should.
His negligence led to a lady being killed.
He's got to be fired, possibly even put in prison."
Well, maybe, but let's just think about that
because he's got a supervisor.
Now, that supervisor allowed him to go home early,
possibly even told him to go home early.
In which case, now it's a bit more tricky
because whose fault was it really?
Now the truth of it was that there was a supervisor,
and he either knew that the guy had gone home early
and didn't do anything about it,
or he didn't know that the guy had gone home early,
in which case he should have known.
So you could argue
that either way that's the supervisor's fault.
Now actually, what was happening was
that there was a a depot of people,
probably about let's say 10 supervisors,
and they had a culture of sloppiness in this depot.
So all 10 supervisors used to let
all 100 people go home early on Fridays.
That's just what they did there.
So there was a depot manager who was to blame for that.
And I actually think the depot manager is definitely
to blame for the fact
that everybody used to skive off home early on Fridays.
I think the supervisors were just part of the system,
and I think it'll be quite difficult
if you were a supervisor to say, "Nope, nope,
my people can't go home early,
even though everyone else's do go home early."
So you could say the supervisor is just part of the system,
and there's not a lot he could do.
I think it's hard to ask them to be strong enough
to go against the system.
And imagine if you were one of 100 guys,
and everybody finishes early on Friday,
and you go, "Nope, I'm gonna stay on late and work."
I think that, you know, not many people would do that.
So I'm personally thinking
that the depot manager is definitely to blame,
probably not the supervisor,
now maybe the actual individual, if it's life or death,
but of course, he didn't know the train was gonna crash.
He thought it was okay.
He probably knew there was a tiny chance
there'd be a problem,
but there's probably always a tiny chance
there's gonna be a problem.
So, you know, maybe he didn't realize about the danger,
but that depot manager, he's definitely to blame.
Now, just taking it one step further,
there's a national manager in charge of all the depots.
Is he to blame?
And I think yes, he is.
He should have known
that one of those depots was not performing properly.
His only excuse is if he's only just taken over in the job,
and he hasn't had a chance to sort it yet.
Perhaps hasn't had a chance to discover it.
But if he's been in the job for, say, a year,
he should know by now
that one of his depots is completely incompetent.
Almost his only job is to measure the various depots
and find out what's going on.
So just as the Captain of the ship
needs to make sure the beds are being made,
and the soup isn't too salty,
that national manager needs to check on all the depots,
and if one of them's bad, it's his fault.
So personally, I would almost certainly sack
the national manager.
I would definitely sack the depot manager.
I don't think I would sack the supervisor,
and I'd have to think about
whether I sack the actual guy at the bottom.
But those top two, oh, yeah.
So everything's management's fault.
And if you think about your company,
really, the boss at the top is responsible for everything.
And you, as a manager, are responsible
for everything that happens in your area.
So everything's management's fault,
but it's okay
because if you have the right people and the right systems
and if you do a certain amount of monitoring,
you're gonna be okay.
And it's the monitoring
that I want to come to in the next section.


=== Delegating ===


--- How Should I Communicate to My Team? ---

-: Now I've just been talking about
management by walking about and back to the floor.
There are actually five types of communication
you can use to get your message down to the troops.
And those are two of them
but as well as management by walking about
and back to the floor, there are three others.
One of them is just the cascade down of information.
Some people have a formal briefing system.
Some people it's just informal.
But the point is that the things that you tell your managers
they should pass down to supervisors,
who should pass it down to workers.
And you can check that the cascade is working
when you do your management by walking about.
If it isn't, you may need to bring in a formal system
and you need to say to the supervisor,
"Look I want you to get your guys together
once a week and tell them stuff."
And of course it can be done with written briefing sheets
as well as words if you want, you can have a sheet
that has to be given out to everybody.
Or these days you can use technology,
it can be on the internet or whatever.
But the cascade of information is the third way.
You need to watch that and make sure it's really happening.
The fourth way is team meetings.
I think these are incredibly important.
So the supervisor should have a team meeting
with their workforce once a week,
where they tell them what's going on that week
and everybody has a chance to say I'm on holiday,
or I've got a particular problem.
And in fact, everybody at every level,
should hold a team meeting with their team
approximately once a week.
Now if you've got shift workers
or people spread around the country,
it might be more difficult
but maybe you can do a joint Skype call
or a conference call, I dunno.
But generally, every week you should have a team meeting
with your team.
And if you think about it, that means
you're gonna be in two meetings, doesn't it?
'Cause you're gonna run a team meeting
with the team who report to you
but you're also going to attend a team meeting,
run by your boss, at which all your peers are there.
So you should really be in two team meetings a week.
Now each one should only be 15 minutes.
It's not arduous and it will save a lot of time.
People sometimes say to me, "Do I need a team meeting?
We all sit in an open planned office."
But the answer is yes, you do
because you don't often sit down as a group
and just compare notes and think about what you're doing.
So it will easily pay for itself.
People will discover that somebody else
is working on the same thing as them or somebody else knows
about something that they're grappling with.
So really important if people are gonna feel like a team,
they have to have a team meeting.
So that's the fourth type of communication.
The the two team meetings every week
that you'll have to go to.
The final one is addressing the troops.
And once a year the boss should address
all of the troops on mass.
Christmas is a good time to do this.
Just you know, stand on a box and say to them, right
this is what's happened this year, these are the finances,
this is how much profit we've made.
This is what we've plowed the profit back into
'cause I haven't kept it all in my pockets.
It's all been invested back in
and then these are the plans for next year.
This is what we're gonna invest in.
These are the new areas we're gonna try and sell to,
new products we're developing.
So tell 'em about the year that's gone and the coming year.
And it's important to do that
for the whole company once a year.
Now you might find that a bit scary,
you may not like doing it, it may take a bit of work
'cause you'll have to probably have
a PowerPoint presentation, maybe.
Maybe give them each a page of notes to take away
so they can look at the accounts later.
But it's a big thing for people.
They wanna see the whole company in one room
so they can feel the size of it
and it makes everybody feel part of a big team.
So management by wandering about, back to the floor,
the cascade down of information, the team meetings,
and then addressing the troops.
You need to make sure you do all five
of those communication methods.
Communication's the biggest thing.
There was a some general said "He who communicates, leads."
So communication is almost the essence of leadership.
And of course nowadays it can also be
she who communicates leads
but that quote was from 100 years ago.
So communication is absolutely fundamental
to leadership and you have to make sure you do plenty of it.
Remember that when the pressure's on
it's the first thing to go, but it mustn't be.
You must always make sure you communicate.


=== Leadership Styles Part 2 ===


--- How to Connect With Your Team ---

-: Now, if you are gonna be
the captain of the ship in your area,
you're gonna delegate,
you're gonna have systems,
you need to monitor and make sure that everything's okay.
And there are two main ways to do that.
The first one is management by wandering about, MBWA.
Sometimes people say
that stands for management by walking about,
but either way, the captain of the ship
needs to walk around the ship every day, I would say,
I think he should walk around the whole ship every day.
Now, your ship might consist of offices in Cardiff
and Newcastle and Birmingham (laughing)
and Paris, or whatever.
So you probably may not be able to go around
everything every day,
but I think you need to visit every branch
probably once a month,
maybe once a week, it depends,
enough to have a real feel for what's happening.
And you need to see every person in your company,
ideally once a month,
or maybe once a year if it's a huge company.
So management by walking about,
you gotta work out the amount,
but I think you should probably spend
an hour or two every day
just walking around talking to people.
That's a big time commitment.
And of course, communication's the first thing to go
when things are getting tough,
and yet, really, it's the most important thing to be doing
when things are getting tough.
So communication's incredibly important,
and you must walk around every day for an hour or two.
Now, what would you do during that hour or two?
And the answer is just see how people are going,
check, "How are you getting on with this latest job, Fred?
Did you ever hear back from the customer?"
Whatever, just ask them what they're working on
at the moment if you don't know,
that sort of thing.
It's partly for you to pull in information
to get a feel for what they're doing
and what they're thinking, how they feel,
but it's also for you to transmit information.
So when they go, "Oh, what's happening with this?"
you can say, "Well, we've got a plan for that.
Nothing's gonna happen for a couple more months,
but don't worry, it's in the pipeline."
Most of your communication
should really come down through your managers,
but it is a chance for you to put some messages out directly
and also to check whether your managers
are communicating the messages down.
Sometimes messages get garbled along the way,
so you can make sure the message
has come down correctly to the guys.
So maybe 1/4 of the time you're on transmit
and 3/4 you're on listen mode,
you're on receive mode
to see whether people are happy
and find out what's happening.
So in a way, you're judging the whole system.
Is the system working?
And you're judging the people.
And you're not necessarily judging the actual workers,
you're judging the managers in between.
Are your managers running a tight ship?
That's what you're trying to get a feel for
when you do management by walking about.
It's such an important thing to do.
Now, the other type of monitoring is back to the floor.
I don't know whether you've seen any of those TV programs
called "Back to the Floor" or "Undercover Boss"
and "Secret Millionaire" and all those things,
but it's very easy to get out of touch
with what really goes on.
So it's a great idea for maybe one day per year
to go back to the floor and do the lowest job.
When I say lowest, it's often the lowest paid,
but it's often the most important job.
So for example, I saw the boss
of a waste recycling company go back,
and he just emptied the bins for a week.
And he spent a week on the lorries emptying the bins.
And of course, because he was a manager and was about 60,
he was pretty hopeless as a binman.
And all the other binmen laughed at him of how he wasn't,
and they didn't know who he was,
he was secretly going back to do their job.
But he discovered how tough their job was.
And when he revealed at the end who he was,
they were amazed and they were also a bit embarrassed
'cause they'd all taken the pee out of him
because he was so feeble. (laughing)
But when he said that he really had respect
for what they were doing,
it was a brilliant moment.
By the way, I think, when you do back to the floor,
you shouldn't do it secretly,
you should say, "I wanna spend a day with you
or possibly a whole week,
because I wanna really understand the issues,
I wanna get a feel for what it's like.
And I know I'll be hopeless at it,
you'll have to look after me,
but I wanna understand what it's really like for you."
And you should find that you'll be welcomed,
they'll think it's brilliant that you're doing that.
So don't be tempted to think,
"Aw, I don't wanna do that, it'll be hard work,"
'cause yes, it will be hard work,
and it might be cold, or dirty, or smelly,
but you must do it, it's really important,
partly for credibility,
but mainly because then you'll make better decisions
when from on high, you have to make decisions on,
"Do we need more people?
Should we put the price up?
Should we invest in new equipment?"
All those sorts of decisions,
you can make much better decisions
if you do a bit of back to the floor.
Now, you may think, "I already know,"
but it's amazing how quickly
you get out of touch with what it's really like.
So if you haven't done that job for a few years
or if you've got two or three layers
in between you and the shop floor,
then you will be out of touch, I bet you.
And it's amazing how out of touch we get.
One of the reasons, by the way,
that we get out of touch
is that our direct reports tend to only give us good news.
They're not gonna say, "Oh yeah,
my department's rubbish 'cause I'm such a bad manager.
It's all out of control,
they make mistakes the whole time."
So what they tend to do is they tell you everything's great.
So before long, you, the senior boss,
start to float on a sort of raft
of (censored) that's been pushed up
by the people (laughing) below you,
and you start to not really know
what it's like down there at the coalface.
So back to the floor, really important idea.
And those are my two monitoring methods,
management by walking about
and back to the floor.


=== Wrap Up ===


--- Are Great Leaders Born or Made? ---

-: Now, probably the biggest name in leadership theory
is a guy called John Adair.
John Adair is still alive, he's quite old now.
He was in the army,
and originally he was given the job by the army
of trying to find out
what characteristics the best leaders had
so that they could recruit more of those type of people.
And what he found
was that it wasn't actually personality at all.
It wasn't what you are,
it was what you do that made you a great leader.
And he found that the best leaders did certain things.
It was nothing to do with their personality at all.
And you might think the good leaders are,
you know, approachable, intelligent, charismatic,
decisive, tough, et cetera.
And they probably are
but we can all learn to do the right things.
And, actually, if you look at leaders
that are both decisive and good listeners, or whatever,
you'll find a lot of the traits are almost contradictory.
So you can be any different type of personality
and still be a good leader.
Perhaps to be a really great world-class leader,
you have to inherit some characteristics,
but to be a good leader in a company, anybody can do it,
you just have to learn what to do.
So, John Adair moved the whole subject on
from trait theory to the idea of transactional leadership,
it's what you do that matters rather than what you are,
and he came out with two theories.
The first one is that there are three areas
that leaders have to pay attention to,
he called this Action Centered Leadership.
And his idea is that, first of all,
the leader has to make sure the task gets done.
You have to define it carefully, measure it, et cetera.
Secondly, the team has to be happy.
So that involves a certain amount
of team building, et cetera.
And then the individuals have to be happy within the team,
and that involves looking after individuals
and having plans for each person.
So task, team, and individual,
he drew those as three overlapping circles
and he called it Action Centered Leadership.
Now, I suppose he's right,
that theory doesn't excite me particularly.
And it was actually based
on the work of Blake and Mouton anyway
because they originally, before John Adair, said
that the two areas you have to look out for
are the task and the people.
So they said if you're too tasky and you forget the people,
that will be a problem.
And if you're too people-orientated and you forget the task,
you'd have a lot of fun,
but that won't be much good either.
And they said it's not really a compromise between the two.
They said the objective is to do both,
to be really hot on the task and really hot on the people.
And that's what Blake and Mouton said.
John Adair then divided that down
and he divided the people part
into the team and the individuals.
But John Adair's second theory, which I do rather like,
said that things go in five stages
and the leader has to pay attention
to the task, team, and individual
in all three of those stages,
sorry, all five of those stages.
And the five stages are, first of all,
setting the objectives.
What are we tryna do?
And the leader would make sure
everybody understands the objective,
perhaps would involve them in some objective setting
but normally would probably provide a vision
of where we're going.
So that's objectives.
Second stage is planning.
So again, the leader will make sure we spend enough time
on planning, would involve the people in the planning,
it would control the planning process,
make sure that lots of ideas are considered
before we hone in on one, that kind of thing.
The third stage is then briefing,
making sure that everybody understands the plan.
And quite often, the people who've gotta carry it out
are not the same as the ones
who were involved in making the plan.
So briefing is explaining the plan to the troops
who have to carry it out.
You can see it's quite a military model
'cause he was a military man.
The fourth of his five stages is the action,
that's when you actually do whatever the job is.
And the leader at this stage is monitoring, controlling,
checking that the team are happy,
make sure everybody's involved,
make sure the quality's done right.
So there's a few jobs the leader does during the action.
And then finally, review or evaluate.
Afterwards, what can we learn?
How did it go?
You know, was everybody happy, et cetera?
So those are the five stages;
objectives, planning, briefing, action, and review.
And within each of those five stages,
you've gotta look after the three areas,
the task, the team, and the individual.
And you can draw this out as a matrix.
And John Adair would say,
and I think he might be right,
that everything a leader does is in this matrix somewhere.
So, for example,
appraisals are to do with setting objectives
for individuals.
And then evaluating, reviewing individuals.
So they actually appear in two boxes on the matrix.
So that's John Adair's structure.
I think there's one flaw in his structure actually,
which is that, because he's an army guy,
he's very interested in command tasks,
you know, invade that country.
And a lot of it has a start and a finish,
almost like a project.
And it's great for that.
What are the objectives?
What's the plan for doing this, et cetera?
But a lot of us aren't,
we're doing some projects,
but we're also controlling processes.
So let's suppose you just run a factory
or you run a call center or something like that,
his model doesn't work so well for that
because it's not as if you've got one objective
which you then plan.
So, keeping people happy and monitoring processes,
I think his model isn't as good as some of the other models,
which I'm gonna come to later.
Anyway, that's John Adair,
he is, you know, the guy when it comes to leadership.
And that concludes this first section on what is leadership.
We're gonna have a look at motivation next,
there are some great theories on that.
And then we're gonna come back to leadership a bit more
'cause we're gonna look at leadership style,
and there's some really good theories on leadership style
I'm gonna share with you later in this course.


=== NEW: Latest Content Updates ===


--- Motivation: The Essence of Leadership ---

-: So welcome to this section on motivation.
Key part of leadership is motivation.
I think probably to have a vision
and then motivate people to achieve it is
probably the essence of leadership.
So motivation's really, really key.
So we're gonna explore some of the main theories
in this section, including one that I have invented.
I hope you like the management potato when we get there,
but we're actually gonna start
with one of the most famous management theories
of all time, probably, which is Maslow's hierarchy of needs.
So let's go on to that now.

--- Understanding Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs in a Leadership Role ---

-: So when you're thinking about motivation
you have to look at Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs.
Maslow came up with this in the 1950s, I think it was.
So it's been around for 60 years.
Hasn't really been improved upon.
He was originally researching happiness,
and then his theory was used by people at work.
Happiness at work became motivation.
And I must admit,
when I first saw Maslow's Hierarchy, I thought, "I dunno."
But the more I think about it
the more brilliant I think it is.
And anyway, who am I to judge the mighty Maslow,
to be honest.
And what he said was there are five things that humans want.
And not only that, but they're in order.
So each one builds upon the one before.
So if you were parachuted into the jungle,
the first need you would have is just to survive.
You'd look for food and water and shelter.
And if you're cold or you're hungry
you don't think about anything else.
Now, most of us don't really ever have any problem
with these things,
and so we hardly realize it's a need
because it's being satisfied.
But if you were cold or hungry, you really would know it.
And in the sort of rich part of the world
that a lot of us live in, we're lucky enough to live in,
we sometimes deliberately put ourselves in these situations
and we go camping or something like that.
And, you know, when you're camping
doesn't food taste fantastic when you fry up your bacon
in the morning or whatever, back to the elements.
But for most of us, we, you know, our day-to-day life
we don't really notice the survival one.
So once you've got your food in the jungle,
what would you do next?
And your next thing would be security, wouldn't it?
The next thing you'd want to do
is put a fence around your cave.
You'd wanna have a supply of nuts, maybe a week's worth
so that when the tree runs out,
you know you're gonna be okay.
You'd probably wanna find a second river.
So security is the next thing that we look for.
And again, you may be thinking,
"Well, I'm not that bothered about security,"
but that's because you've already got it.
You know, you've got a skill that you can always use
or you've got a certain amount of money saved up
or whatever.
So security is a basic fundamental need according to Maslow.
And as a manager or a leader,
you need to make your people feel secure.
Now, some managers don't realize that.
They think, "No, keep them on their toes,
"then they'll work harder."
But they won't.
They'll just become obsessed
with making sure that they're secure.
I'll give you an example of this
because the third level of Maslow after security is social.
So if you were in the jungle,
once you've got your system set up,
you would then start to look for people.
Robinson Crusoe, he's so pleased to find Man Friday
as company on his island.
So you would look for people, and we are social animals.
I think some of us might be more sociable than others
but certainly we don't like to be lonely.
And in prison,
solitary confinement is the worst punishment you can have.
So it shows we are social animals.
And I want to just demonstrate
that security is more important than social
because there's a company I know who sack the bottom 10%.
It's a bank.
And every year they sack the bottom 10% in every department.
So even if you are quite good,
if everybody's better than you, you're out.
Now what happens do you suppose if you have that regime?
What if you are quite near the relegation zone
as you're three quarters of the way through the year?
I would imagine that people will double-cross their friends.
They'll just steal the incoming phone calls
and the leads and whatever to get their numbers up.
They might even drop somebody else in it just to survive.
And I think security is a deeper level need
than social needs.
And I think what they do by keeping people insecure
is destroy the social fabric of that bank.
Now maybe you don't need to work as a team in a bank,
but I dunno, I would've thought you would.
And I just think it would be a horrible place to work.
So social is built on top of security and therefore
as a manager you need to make people feel secure.
And by the way, how would you make people feel secure
if you were a manager?
I suppose it would be things like lots of communication,
telling them what's happening in the bigger picture
as well as just how they're doing.
Having clear rules, everyone knows where they stand.
Perhaps giving them help and support
if they're struggling or if they fail,
that would make them feel more secure.
And being fair and being the same every day,
being constant every day rather than having moods
and being a bit sort of dangerous and crazy
like some bosses.
So very important to make your people feel secure.
And then the next thing
is make them feel a feeling of belonging.
So the social bit coming,
comes from making them feel part of a team.
So I've already mentioned team meetings,
but also the environment.
Having a nice area where people can, you know,
go and have a cup of coffee.
And I personally think you should have free stuff
in the kitchen so that people can go and help themselves.
And then it's all very civilized,
it doesn't cost a lot of money
and you get a lot of motivation back from that.
So they can hang around in a coffee area and chat
and things like that and feel part of things.
Maybe social events as well outside of work
are another way to encourage that.
So that's Maslow's third level, the social bit.
Now once people have got security
and they have a sense of belonging, the social side,
the next thing they start to want is to be noticed,
to be better than the others in the team occasionally,
just for something, to have something that's theirs.
And this is status or ego needs.
So we like to be important just occasionally.
But ego needs are a higher level need than social.
So social needs have to be satisfied
before you can move on to the status or the ego needs.
So for example, there's a company in America
that has a great big typing pool.
There's about a hundred people
in this great big room typing.
And every week they measure who has typed the most
and also who has made the least mistakes.
And that person gets to be typist of the week
and they get their desk moved up onto the stage,
up onto a podium, typist of the week.
And how would you feel about that?
Would you like to be typist of the week?
Because when I ask English people this they always say,
"Oh no, I wouldn't wanna be up on the podium
"taken away from my friends.
"And my friends would all throw stuff at me all week.
"'Ooh, here he comes, typist of the week.'"
And they don't want that
because their feeling is that the status
would take away their social network
and they wouldn't like that.
When I ask Americans about this, they say,
"Oh, yes, I'd love to be typist of the week."
'Cause in America, success is a good thing.
Your friends would actually be pleased for you
and would want to be your friend
if you're typist of the week.
Whereas in England we kind of hate success
and we just go, "Ooh, look at him.
"How did you get that?"
So it's really interesting to see the different attitudes.
But if you are faced with the choice of social or status,
you'll pick social every time.
And so that's really why.
Although it's interesting
that when people make a lot of money
they move into big houses with great big gates
and things and then they lose all their social.
Whereas if you're living in, you know,
little terraced houses or whatever
it's actually much more sociable, isn't it?
So I wonder whether they regret it
when they get into their huge great houses.
I guess they still have friends,
they just come round and swim in their pool and things.
I don't know.
So, but given the choice between social and status,
we would choose social.
But ideally we can have both.
So in the ideal company, people have a sense of belonging
and they feel like a team,
but also they get to feel important.
So again, management can make people feel important,
giving them some recognition and thanking them,
you know, giving them, I dunno,
a job title that sounds good, and that sort of thing.
But also giving them ownership of stuff
so that they can say, "Well, that's my area,
"I'm in charge of that."
So there are all kinds of things you can do
to make people feel important,
even just spending a bit of your time with them.
If you're the boss, your time is valuable
and it's appreciated by the people who work for you.
So to spend a bit of time with your employees
makes them feel important.
So then we come to the top level of Maslow's Hierarchy,
the ultimate, which he called self-actualization.
Now, don't feel bad if you don't know
what self-actualization is because he invented the word,
although it's in the dictionary now, but he invented it.
And it was a word he made up for
really for self-fulfillment,
for being the best you that you can be.
So discovering your potential,
using your skills to the utmost, self-actualization.
And he said that's what human beings really want.
We want to do great work or work that makes a difference.
So this is an internal motivator.
All the other ones are external, to do with friends
and being important, but this one happens internally.
So if you look at a bricklayer, they get to survive
'cause they earn a reasonable amount of money.
They get security, they've got a trade they can always use.
They get social needs
because they get to be part of a gang on the building site
working together and having a laugh.
And they get status
because they're the most important trade or one of them.
And they're skilled trade, they get status.
But they also get self-actualization
because they get to build a building
and they can walk away and think, "I made that."
And every time they drive past
they can think, "I made that building."
And that would be brilliant.
I'd love to be able to say I'd made a building,
I'd built that.
So that's the self-actualization.
So Maslow says that for your company to be great
people have to be at the level of self-actualization.
And therefore you've gotta give them
all the other levels below that
or the pyramid will just crumble.
And then you've gotta make it possible for them
to have self-actualization.
So you've gotta train them,
you've gotta give them the skills to use,
you've gotta give them opportunities, give them challenges
so they get the satisfaction of success.
Maybe let them set their own objectives even.
So you've gotta have an environment
where people can flourish and where they're trusted
and they get given important work to do.
So you can set it up for them
so they can get self-actualization.
And that's what leadership is supposed to be doing,
getting everybody who works for you to be self-actualized.
And that of course means getting to know them
and finding out what their potential is.
So that is Maslow's theory, and I think it's great.
Now, you may say there are some exceptions.
For example, van Gogh was self-actualized.
He was doing paintings that he believed in.
But he had no status.
Everybody thought he was mad.
He had no social network, no friends, no security.
In fact, he could hardly survive.
He was starving half the time.
So, yes, you do get the occasional person like van Gogh
who was just doing self-actualization.
But those people are very unusual
and, you know, you could argue he had some issues.
But for most people
it's much better to build the pyramid up from the bottom
and help them to get to the top.
And whatever you do,
don't think taking away the security level
is gonna make people work harder.
'Cause that just cuts out the bottom of the pyramid.
It destroys everything.
So don't be that kind of boss.
You've gotta build it up from the bottom.
So that's Maslow's theory.
I hope you liked it.

--- Document to Help You Apply Maslow to Your Working Environment ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- The Management Potato: How to Separate Praise and Criticism ---

-: So now we come to another motivation theory
which some people may say is better than Maslow, (chuckles)
although possibly not.
I invented the management potato,
but I think it's good, and I think it it covers a small area
that Maslow actually doesn't cover, interestingly,
which is thanking people.
Now where would thanking people come
on the Maslow hierarchy?
Well, it would make people feel more secure, really,
I think, wouldn't it?
But it might make them feel a sense of belonging
and it might make them feel,
make 'em feel important as well.
I think getting recognition is a bit like being thanked.
So I think it's mainly security
and status on the Maslow hierarchy.
I actually think thanking is important
for self-actualization as well.
Because take for example, if I run a training course,
I mainly do it for self-actualization,
'cause I want to believe I'm making a difference
for the people on the course.
But how do I know if I've made a difference?
And if somebody thanks me
and says That was really great, that's really helped,
I get more self-actualization then.
So I guess thanking does go all the way through Maslow.
But I wanna look at thanking
in a slightly different way with my management potato.
The posh name is the potato of performance.
So I want you to have a look at this diagram,
and this is the performance of a typical person,
everyone who works for you.
And in fact,
probably you have a performance potato like this.
Mostly you are fine,
there's a tick for the main part of what you do.
There's a double tick for part of it,
you have an area of excellence,
there's something that you do really well,
and then there's probably an area
that you're not so good at.
I put a little X there.
There's probably something you are bad at,
maybe it's detail, or dealing with difficult customers,
or I dunno, creativity or accounting.
Who knows? There's probably something that you don't like,
that you're not so good at.
So that's you and that's the people who work for you.
Now, which bit will the boss focus on?
And the answer is the boss will probably focus
on the problem area.
The boss will say, oh, you're not very good at that.
You need to improve on that.
And that's quite negative.
But you can see why they would do that.
Because if there are say 10 budgets you look after,
and one of them is overspent, they're gonna hone in
on the one that's overspent, aren't they?
So it's kind of natural they focus in on the bad bit.
But what will happen if you focus in on the bad bit?
And the answer is that person will just think, oh, you know,
all he does is criticize me.
He's always telling me I'm not good enough at this,
by the way, I never get any thanks
for the good bits that I do.
And what they will tend to do is they'll start to not bother
with the double tick, 'cause they did all that work,
and didn't get any thanks for it.
And they'll start to avoid the bit that gets criticized,
and they'll think, well I'm not gonna do that,
'cause you know, if I go in, go near that,
I always get hassled.
And so their performance will be reduced.
So both of those bits are now gone,
and in fact they might do a bit less
of the normal bit as well, 'cause they just think,
well, he's so ungrateful.
And then they accidentally make a mistake
in a different area and the boss criticizes that,
and then they think, well, I'm not gonna do that either.
So gradually the area will reduce
and reduce until eventually all that's left
of this person who's being criticized
is a little, wrinkled prune in the middle.
And the potato of performance
has become the prune of performance.
And that person is now hardly functional.
It's happened to me in previous jobs.
Every now and then I've had a boss who criticizes me
and I just do less and less,
and in the end you just go through the motions really.
And recently it happened to me actually playing in a band.
I was playing in a band,
and I made some posters that I thought were good,
brought 'em along, and the boss of the band,
the guitarist, said to me, well, he said,
"I suppose they'll do till we get some proper ones made."
And I just thought, all right, thanks,
you know, I'm not gonna bother with that anymore.
And then I made some pages on a website,
and he went, "Well, you know, I don't really like that bit."
So I thought, well I'm not gonna bother with the website.
And then I said, I managed to get us a gig at a little pub
down the road, and getting a gig's quite hard work.
You have to really hassle the guy who runs the pub.
And the gig turned out to not be very good.
It was quite a small audience
and not very receptive audience.
And they also had a noise limiter that kept cutting
out the electricity when we got too noisy.
And afterwards the guitarist said to me,
"That was a rubbish gig you got us, Chris."
So I'm thinking, well, I'm not gonna bother getting
any more gigs then.
So I gradually stopped doing each thing that I used to do
because it was criticized.
And it gotta the point where I actually
would stop doing things even before I started them.
So for example, I was thinking we could do
with a backdrop for the band, with the band's name,
and website, and things behind us
instead of just a dart board, and a jukebox,
and a TV showing football.
So I thought we'd have this backdrop, and then I thought,
actually, do you know what?
I'm not gonna do that, 'cause I know if I do it,
he's gonna criticize it.
So I just didn't do it, and we never did get a backdrop.
So I had become a prune instead of a potato.
And amazingly, the guitarist used to say,
"No one does any work in this band,
"I have to do everything round here."
And I'm thinking, I wonder why,
it's 'cause you've made everybody into prunes.
So it's very easy to criticize people,
but if you do, they'll become,
they'll become a bunch of prunes
and then nothing will get done.
And even though I could feel it happening to me,
I still couldn't fight it.
It's quite a powerful process,
and I could feel myself turning into a prune,
but I just thought, well, you know, what can you do?
So what should you do if you are a manager,
and you've got somebody who's got a potato of performance,
which involves an area of excellence
and an area that's not so good?
Well, to start with, a total no brainer, is to focus
on the two ticks and just tell them that they're brilliant.
So by the way, I notice you've done that, brilliant.
You know, the fact that some guy in the band has got a gig,
you should just say, brilliant,
well done for getting the gig.
And I know it wasn't a very good one, but it doesn't matter.
The point is you've got one, so keep getting them,
that's great.
So focus on the double ticks for a start.
But what about the cross, the area that's not very good?
Can we ignore that?
And the answer is we can't.
We have to say something about it,
but the main thing is to be supportive.
Say to them, I know that didn't really work out,
but don't worry about it
'cause it's gonna be fine next time, you can do it.
And I think a good question to ask
if somebody does badly at something is
do you know what you'll do differently next time?
Because I dunno about you, but if I make a mistake,
I'm already thinking, oh, I know what I should have done.
I don't need somebody to come along and go, oh, Chris,
you shouldn't have done that.
I already know that.
So quite often you'll say to somebody
do you know what you should have done
or do you know what you're gonna do next time?
And they'll go, oh yeah, yeah, definitely,
I'm gonna do this, this, and this.
And you can say, brilliant, yeah,
'cause I know you can do it,
don't worry about it, mistakes happen,
you are gonna be fine next time.
If they say no, I don't really know why it went wrong,
then you've gotta go into coaching mode,
and you've gotta say to 'em, well, look,
I'll help you next time, 'cause you can learn it,
and I want you to be able to do it,
so next time it comes up, let me know,
we'll work on it together.
If it goes wrong, it'll be my fault,
and I'm gonna teach you how to do it,
so that next time you can do it.
And I know you can do it.
So always be positive about the,
about the area of less good performance.
By the way, some people have what's called the sandwich,
(laughs) which is where you do the good bit,
the bad bit, and the good bit.
Tick, cross, tick.
And they use this for things like appraisals.
The idea is you tell 'em some good news
then you tell 'em the bad news
and then you tell 'em some good news.
And if you sandwich the bad news
in two bits of good news, they kind of won't notice.
But I dunno, I think I would notice
if somebody gives me sandwich.
I know what I'm gonna be tasting
after I finished the sandwich.
And it's the same when you have that meeting
with your, with your manager.
You go away thinking
I can't believe you told me I was rubbish at this.
I worked really hard on that.
It wasn't my fault it went wrong.
So I don't think you should hide it.
I personally think that if they've done something good,
you should go to them and just say, by the way,
I noticed you did that and it was brilliant, well done,
keep doing it, and walk away.
So it's just completely ticked.
Don't go pity about the other bit though, (laughs)
'cause that just ruins it.
So just tell 'em they've done brilliantly, and walk away.
For the other area, the cross, I think you should
do the performance improvement sandwich,
and I think you should say to them
what you're doing, generally, is brilliant.
I don't have any problems really.
There is this one area I'd like you to improve on.
I'm gonna help you with that.
And don't worry,
'cause it's only a small thing and I know you can do it.
I know you can learn it.
So I think you should do the good, bad, good
just for the performance improvement.
But you should absolutely separate that out
from the praise for the good area.
'Cause if you mix the two, you end up with, on average, bad.
So there we are,
that's the performance improvement sandwich
and the management potato.
I hope you enjoyed it almost as much
as Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs.

--- How to Manage and Motivate the 4 Types of People ---

-: Now we looked at Maslow earlier,
brilliant theory about motivation.
But I think something that Maslow
didn't mention and perhaps should have
is that people's personalities vary.
So, although I think he's right
that everybody wants security,
everybody wants to be important, et cetera,
I think some people have a very different emphasis
on those things.
Some people are really obsessed by security, where others,
other people aren't bothered about that at all.
They're much more risk takers.
So I think to be a great motivator of people,
you do need to adapt
to the different personalities that you're dealing with.
So there are lots of models about personality.
The one I like, nice and simple,
just divides people into four types.
And I've shown them here on this diagram.
You can see that from left to right,
we've got how outgoing the person is.
So on the left we've got the quiet,
careful thinking type people who might be more
interested in security.
And on the right hand side
we've got the more extrovert dynamic people who
are perhaps more interested in being important
and getting things done, that sort of thing.
And then at the top we've got the logical people,
the people whose decision making preference is
for logic, numbers, reasons, that sort of thing.
Whereas the bottom two people are more emotional
in their decision making.
So they're gonna be, they're gonna have higher social needs.
They're gonna be more interested
in the social side of Maslow.
So if you look at the four types, you then end up with,
you have the analytical in the top left corner
you have the controller top right, bottom right
you have the enthusiast, and then bottom left
you have the amiable.
And the way they're gonna be motivated is gonna
be quite different.
So as a really good boss or leader
you do need to manage 'em in different ways.
So the analytical person is interested
in a certain amount of security.
They want to have systems, everything
organized rules to know where they stand,
plenty of explanations of what's going on in the company.
But they're also quite keen on self-actualization.
So they like to have intellectual challenges
and areas of ownership that are theirs.
They can be the expert in an area.
So that's how they want to be treated
in a very fair, logical, organized way and left to work.
The controller, top right.
Well, they are actually quite hard to manage
but in a way they're quite easy to motivate
because they're very driven.
They just wanna have a job and get on with it.
You've almost gotta just say, "There's a tough challenge,"
point them at it, "Off you go."
So they're interested in,
I would say, status and self-actualization.
They need to have a certain amount of status so they
can just have the power to get on with things and do things.
And then after that, it's self-actualization.
They wanna make a difference to the world, change the world,
that sort of thing.
So in terms of managing and leading them,
it's pretty much empowerment, giving them their own area
and letting 'em get on with it.
Now the bottom right, the enthusiast,
they're much more socially driven
but they also do rather like their status.
They like to be important.
And "Look at me, I'm boss of this,"
or, "I'm in charge of this,"
or, I've got a big parking space
outside the front of the building."
But they have lots of strength as well.
'cause they're creative, they've got energy, excitement.
So how do you manage those sorts of people?
Well, I guess it's an exciting vision
of the future, that's what they want.
You've gotta get them excited about it
but you've also gotta control 'em a little bit
because they can be disorganized.
They probably won't monitor their budgets.
They're probably overspend if they get a chance.
So you've gotta keep an eye on them.
And of course, they're not always enthusiastic.
They have their moods.
Sometimes they're quite down,
so sometimes they may need cheering up.
And then the fourth one, the amiable, they're more concerned
with social and security side of things.
So they want to be part of a team.
They're very interested in that middle part of Maslow.
They want to have a feeling of belonging.
They want to feel looked after.
They want to feel that you care.
So you have to spend a certain amount of time with them,
checking that they're happy and listening
to them and explaining what you're doing and why
and making them feel safe.
So they need to be nurtured and treated in a
very different way to, for example, the controller.
So adapting your management style
to the type of person you've got is really important.
And by the way, while we're on these four types of people,
what are they gonna be like as a leader?
Now if we just do them in order again,
the analytical is gonna be a very fair boss
and a clear communicator.
Although they're not gonna be a natural communicator,
they're not gonna enjoy doing inspirational talks
to big groups of people.
They're more of a one-to-one communicator.
And what they need to work on is vision, is the, you know,
exciting vision of the future.
They're not really risk takers
but they do like to have a plan.
And they'll be very good at explaining the plan to everyone.
So that's what they'll be like as a leader,
possibly a bit too sensible,
but on the other hand, a nice organized leader.
The controller will be a very dynamic leader.
"Come on, everybody."
They'll lead from the front.
They'll probably forget some detail.
So there is a risk
that there'll be things they haven't thought of
but what the hell, they can solve problems as they go along.
They may not be a very sympathetic leader
though that's the only trouble.
So they may leave people behind if they can't keep up.
So they need to make an effort to be caring
and to realize that, for example,
the amiables may not be very comfortable
with some of the risks that the project's going through.
The enthusiast will be a good leader.
They're a natural, enthusiastic visionary,
the sort of Richard Branson type of leader.
But of course they've gotta make sure that
they do remember the detail and that they do
communicate enough detail to people like the analyticals.
But of course they can delegate the detail
to the analyticals.
So that could be actually a really good arrangement.
An enthusiast with an analytical working for them.
So the enthusiast is probably gonna be
an inspirational leader, although they do tend to
have a new flavor of the month every month, which some
of the other types of people can find frustrating.
Finally, we've got the amiable.
They're probably not gonna push themselves forward
to be the leader
but they can actually make a very good senior manager.
Because at that level, quite often
the job is about judging the people.
It's about moving people into the right job.
"I think if he was there,
he'd work very well with her and that would be good."
And they're very good
at that shuffling around of personalities
which of course the controller is hopeless.
They've got no idea about that kind of thing.
So the amiable can make a subtle manager
but they're probably not gonna be a pushy,
thrusting type of manager.
And therefore they may never be given the job
of the top boss, which could be a shame.
So that's a little view into the four types
of people and how you need to manage them differently.

--- Document to Explain the 4 Types of People ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Is Money a Motivator? ---

-: Now finally, I just want to address the question of money.
Is money a motivator?
A lot of people say yes, but I really don't think it is.
If you look at Maslow, he doesn't mention money.
You could argue, you need some money for security.
You could argue that money gives you status,
but I would argue it's the status
that people want, not the money.
And self-actualization has got nothing to do with money.
So I just wanna say a bit
about why I don't think money's a motivator,
or to be a bit more specific,
money is actually a push motivator, not a pull motivator.
So what do I mean by push versus pull?
Well, money will make you do things,
it won't make you want to do things.
And a true motivator, a pull motivator
makes you want to do that thing.
So if somebody said, "Drive to Scotland back,
I'll pay you 1000 quid,"
you'd do it, and it would push you into doing it.
It would make you wanna go to Scotland to get the money,
but it wouldn't change how you feel about Scotland,
it wouldn't actually make you want to go to Scotland.
If they could convince you that Scotland was brilliant,
which it is by the way,
then that might make you want to go there.
But just paying someone to go there
doesn't make them want to go there.
In fact, it almost makes you think it must be bad
'cause they're having to pay me to do it.
Now, there's been some studies done into this,
and one of the things they found
is that money's a motivator
below a certain point money will make you happier
and will make you enjoy your work.
Or at least if you're paid less than a certain point,
you start to be less interested in your work
and to enjoy it less because the money has gone so low.
It sometimes called a hygiene factor.
So if you give somebody a pay cut,
they will be less motivated.
But if you give them a pay increase,
then they just think, "Hmm."
Now, a pay increase actually does have a short term effect,
because you think, "Well, they're giving me more money,
that must mean they think I'm doing a good job."
So it's actually the praise
implicit in the pay rise that's the motivator.
If the money went into your bank account
and nobody said anything,
then that would be far less effective
than well done, here's some money,
'cause the money's just the proof of what they really think.
So below a certain point it's a problem,
and if you take it away, it's a problem.
But adding it on is only good for a certain amount
and then you don't get any more benefits.
Now, a recent study went into this
in a slightly more sophisticated way,
and what they found was that for mechanical tasks,
if you pay somebody more, they'll do more,
because they'll do more to get the money.
So it is a motivator for repetitive, non-thinking tasks.
But for any non-mechanical tasks,
like creativity or something, they actually found,
not only was the money not a motivator,
but it was actually reverse.
If you paid people more, they would do the task less well.
And that's amazing, isn't it?
Now, why would that be?
Why would money be a reverse motivator
for anything non-mechanical?
And I think that's because the money distracts you
from the task.
So if you take, for example, selling,
which is a non-mechanical task, requires creativity
and effort and belief and all sorts of stuff,
if you pay people more, if they sell more,
it starts to distract them from what they're really doing,
and they're doing it for the money rather than the fact
that they actually believe in the product.
So it replaces the motivation in their mind
and they start to think only about the money.
And of course the money will always be unfair.
So if you pay salespeople by results,
some people will have an easier patch than others.
Some will just have some better customers
or whatever than others.
It's always gonna be unfair
or perceived as unfair by the various salespeople.
What about the guy who's improved a lot,
but still hasn't overtaken the other areas?
Should he be paid more or not?
If you pay him more,
the first person's gonna think it's unfair.
If you don't, he's gonna think it's unfair.
You can never win
if you start trying to use money as a motivator,
and it will escalate as well.
You gotta pay people more every year,
'cause the year they don't get an increase,
they're thinking, "Oh, why does I bother then?"
So it's a road to nowhere.
It's far better to motivate people
with all those other Maslow things
about overcoming challenges
and making a difference and helping people's lives.
There are lots of things other than money
which you can motivate people with.
And I'd just like to finish this with a little question,
which is, if I paid you more,
if I just arranged for a bit of money
to silently go into your bank account,
and if I was your boss, you know,
and I just paid you a bit more,
would you improve the quality of your work?
Because if you're going, "Well, yeah, I would,"
then I think that's the disgrace,
'cause I think that means that you're not doing the best job
you possibly could at the moment.
And having decided that it is worth doing the job
for the money that you're paid, and I do agree,
you know, there are some jobs you wouldn't do
unless you were paid lots,
but having decided to do that job,
surely you would just do the best job you can.
You wouldn't withhold some of the quality
'cause you weren't paid a huge amount.
And similarly, if I arrange for a bit of money to sneak
into your bank account, would you work any harder?
And I would hope that you're not sitting there going,
"Well, yeah, I would."
So I think the quality and how hard you work
shouldn't really be connected to money.
And if they are, I think it shows
that you're not really motivated,
you're only doing it for the money,
you don't really care about your work.
And that means you're doing the wrong job,
and it means your boss has failed to motivate you.
And I think that's a real shame.
So if you are thinking that,
I think you should consider changing job
or trying to find a job that you really believe in,
'cause you've gotta, if you're gonna work
for five days a week on something,
you might as well make it something that you believe in.
So I think when you really think about it,
money isn't a motivator.
It makes people do things,
and it's perhaps proof that they're doing well,
but really the bottom line is,
it's other things that are motivating you,
not the money itself.

--- 20 Things You Should Be Doing to Motivate Your People ---

-: So we've looked at three theories of motivation.
We've looked at Maslow,
we've looked at my management potato,
and we've looked at the four types of people
and how they're all motivated by different things.
And theories all very well,
but what should you actually do then,
summarizing it all to motivate your people?
And I've got my top 20 of motivation here
that I'm gonna zoom through,
20 things you should be doing to motivate your people,
and the first thing
is give everybody ownership of something.
So every person who works for you
should have something that's theirs
even if it's only something really small.
So that's the first thing.
And conversely I suppose,
everything should be owned by somebody.
So even the watering of the rubber plant in reception,
that should be somebody's job
because then it will get done, so ownership.
Second thing is involvement.
Involve people as much as you can in your decisions.
Even though you might be a decisive, clever person
who always knows the answer,
try to involve other people in your decisions.
They'll probably come up with the same answer as you,
but it's still great, isn't it?
'Cause it makes them happy.
And who knows, they may surprise you.
They may actually come up with better ideas than you,
so involvement is my second one.
Third one is challenges.
Give everybody a challenge
and maybe every now and then have a little motivation review
and in your mind just think about each person.
So Miles, does he have ownership of something?
Louise, does she have involvement enough in what I'm doing?
Does Sally have a particular challenge
that she's working on?
Everybody should have a challenge that they're working on
so that they get the thrill of the triumph
of succeeding later on.
That's the third thing.
Everyone should have a challenge.
Fourth thing is let people set their own objectives.
So say to somebody,
"I know your job is to reduce the amount of waste,
so what objective do you want to aim for?
What do you think you can get it down to this year?"
They'll probably aim high
and they'll be really motivated
to achieve that self-set objective.
If you set them a level,
they'll be thinking oh, do I have to?
And by the way, if they aim really low,
you can always say, "Well I don't think that's enough.
I think you want to aim for more than that."
So you don't have to go with their figure,
but quite often they'll surprise you
and they'll aim for something
bigger than you would've asked for.
So let people set their own objectives.
Fifth one is do appraisals.
Six monthly or annually,
you must do appraisals.
They're really important appraisals.
Get rid of every problem
that you can get between a boss and a subordinate.
Things like they think they're good when they're not.
They don't think they're good when they are.
They don't know what you think.
They're worrying about what you think,
so you know they think that you don't think they're any good
when actually you think they're fine.
It gets rid of all of the mess,
as well as they can't see where their career's going
or they're not happy,
so appraisal's really important.
I know they take a bit of time.
You must do them.
Motivation number six is make people feel secure.
We covered this with Maslow.
So people need to feel secure in their jobs
and that requires things like giving them information,
giving them feedback on performance,
giving them the bigger picture
spending a bit of time with them,
that sort of thing.
So make people feel secure.
Next is praise and encouragement.
Particularly when people are new or are learning stuff,
give them lots of encouragement and well done.
This is great, keep doing it.
Lots of praise and encouragement.
We talked about this with the management potato.
The next thing on my list is to thank people.
Very important to thank people.
I think ideally you would thank
everyone who works for you once a week.
Now I'm not saying you should say oh, it's Tuesday,
I've got to thank Dave
or oh, I can't thank Dave till next week now
because I've already thanked him this week.
But as a rough guide,
if you haven't thanked somebody for several weeks
for something good that they've actually done,
then that's too long.
They're like a plant that hasn't been watered
and they're slowly drooping over,
so that means you've got to know what your people are doing
and you've got to tell them.
That's quite a time consuming task, thanking people,
but it's really important.
Thanking is free and it makes a big difference to people.
So good leaders know what's going on
and they thank people.
Next is coaching rather than criticizing.
So leader as coach,
your job is to grow the people to be as good as you,
to build a machine of people.
So the better your people are, the better
and therefore coaching is an important part of your job.
So ideally you would spend a bit of time every day
or certainly every week coaching somebody on something
and ideally you would coach everyone who works for you
in something if you can,
but some people will probably need more than others.
And then my 10th one is that everyone's different.
They're all motivated by different things.
So your job as a good boss
is to work out what motivates each person
and give them that thing.
So you've got to understand your people.
You've got to get to know your people.
Number 11 of my 20 is learning.
People love to learn.
How long could you do a job for that you were good at
and it was well paid and easy,
but you weren't learning anything new?
And I think you'd get bored pretty quickly.
You wouldn't wanna do it for long.
So you must make sure that all the people who work for you
are learning something at all times
and then have a chance to use those skills.
So again, when you do your motivation review,
you could just flick through the people in your mind
maybe just as you drive to work or whatever
and just think is each person learning
something new at the moment
or are they starting to stagnate?
That's number 11, and number 12
is that people like to have a feeling
of progress towards results.
So does everyone have a vision of where we're all going
or where they they are going?
Do they have some project they're working on
or can they see the big picture of where we're going
so that they can then see
that we're all moving towards something?
That's a big factor we like to have,
a feeling of progress towards results.
The next thing is to involve people
in their own development program.
So say to them, "This is the pathway
of what I want you to learn about.
You're gonna learn this for the next few months
and then for the rest of the year this then practice.
Then a year beyond that,
I want you to be an expert on this,"
so they can actually see where it's gonna go.
So not just learning,
but having a vision of where their learning is gonna go.
And then you should be acting as their mentor and coach,
so you should be helping them think about their career
and their future growth,
and that's something important that you should be doing.
Next is are they fulfilling their potential?
So what are they capable of
and are they fulfilling that?
A lot of bad managers just think
well, Fred's good at that job.
I'll leave him doing that job forever.
But maybe Fred's capable of more than that
and maybe you should be helping Fred
to deliver what he's doing,
but also to develop and to become bigger and better.
So don't be lazy
and just use him for what he does now.
Think about his potential.
Fred will be delighted if you help him to grow,
but also you'll have a better Fred
who can do better things for you
and somebody else can move up into what he used to do.
So help people to fulfill their potential.
The next thing is that some people are motivated by novelty.
So this is number 16 of my 20 by the way.
Some people are are motivated by novelty,
so they need perhaps job rotation
or at least to be delegated unusual
and different tasks every now and then.
So make sure that people who need novelty are getting it
and are not getting bored.
Next is that some people
are motivated by friendship and security,
so again, you must find ways to give that.
The people who need that,
they need to be given jobs to work in a team
and they need to work with people who they like,
and you've got to make sure those people aren't lonely
and haven't been neglected.
So how do you make them feel part of something?
Got to always think about that.
Three more to go.
Feeling part of a team
is really, really important to everybody,
so you need to set up an environment
and we saw this briefly in Maslow,
set up an environment where people can feel like a team.
So team meetings, team eating area where people can all mix,
and I personally think you should have free food,
free coffee so that people can just go and help themselves,
and that's really important to the teaminess feel of it all.
My second to last one is money.
Money's not important as a motivator,
but nevertheless it is a hygiene factor.
You must never mess with people's money.
So you should always pay them
what you've said you'll pay them.
Pay them on time.
If they've worked overtime,
make sure they get their overtime.
If they've claimed for expenses,
make sure they get the expenses paid.
You can absolutely destroy people's motivation
by messing with their money
and that's such a easy thing to get right.
You'd be mad to shoot yourself in the foot
by not paying people their expenses for three months
and I've seen that so many times,
so don't mess with people's money.
And finally, remember that you are a role model.
So if you go around all depressed and droopy
and oh, do we have to,
other people will immediately mirror that
and they're much better at mirroring the bad things
than the good things.
So my final 20th point is be positive,
positive about customers, positive about problems.
Always be a positive role model.
The great leaders would be a role model
for the behavior they want to see.
So there we are.
That's my top 20th motivation
and that's the end of the motivation section.
Next, we're gonna look at leadership style.

--- Leadership Styles: Key Theories ---

-: Okay, so we've looked at what is leadership
and we've looked at motivation.
We now come to leadership style,
what are the options
for how you manage your people.
And we're gonna look
at some key theories in this section,
starting with Tannenbaum and Schmidt.
We're also gonna look at situational leadership
and something called the "freedom ladder."
And we're gonna understand some
of the little tricky corners like empowerment,
what actually is empowerment,
and also delegation,
how can you be better at delegating.
So, let's get started with leadership style.

--- How Much Control Should You Keep And How Much To Give Away? ---

-: Now, I think the most fundamental leadership
style theory to know about and understand
is Tannenbaum and Schmidt's Management Continuum.
It's a great name.
Tannenbaum and Schmidt were actually a couple
of American guys who came up with this theory
and what they said is it's all about control.
It's all about deciding how much control to have
and how much to give away.
And they said there's a Management Continuum,
a sliding scale of control.
So, the first style option you've got is tell.
And this is where you keep all the control
and you just tell people,
"I want you to paint that room and I want it pink."
So, that's simple.
It's quick, it's easy.
Everyone knows where they are.
That's tell.
It's not very nice if you're on the receiving end, though.
The second option that Tannenbaum
and Schmidt said exists is sell.
And this is also a top down style,
but here you tell them what you want and why as well.
"I want you to paint the room pink
"because it's been shown to be the most relaxing color
"and both men and women like it," or whatever.
So, you tell them what you want and why.
It's still pretty quick.
It takes a little bit longer, but you've still
got total control and it's a little bit more motivational
for the people on the receiving end I suppose.
Now, the third style is consult.
So, this is why you say to them,
"I've got this plan to paint the room pink.
"What do you think?
"Can anybody see a snag with it?"
So, you ask them about the plan.
So, it's quite a bit more motivational
and you should get a better quality job
as well if you do that,
but it takes a bit of time and there is a risk, of course,
that they're gonna argue with your plan,
which you may not like.
So, that's consult.
Now, the thing about consult is you, the leader,
are still keeping control
'cause you are the one who decides what color it's gonna be.
If they persuade you to go for orange instead of pink,
you can go, yes, okay, we'll do that or no we won't,
but you still take the final decision having consulted them.
Now, once you cross the line, you come to the fourth option,
which is to share the decision.
And once you start sharing the decision,
you no longer have complete control.
So, if there's say five of you, it's you and a team of four,
you sit down and say, "Okay guys,
"what color should we have this room?"
So, you've now only got 20% of the decision,
but, you know, you've still got a fair bit
of control and everything's great.
So, sharing is really motivational.
You should get a great decision.
The only trouble is it's one of the most
time consuming management styles.
That's the problem with it.
The final one on Tannenbaum and Schmidt's original
Management Continuum is delegate.
So, instead of sharing, you say to them,
"Guys, I want you to repaint the room.
"You decide what color.
"Whatever you go with, I'm happy with that."
I suppose in between share and delegate,
you could say, "I want you to decide the color,
"just check it with me first before you buy the paint."
Just in case they go off for sort of some crazy purple
and orange stripes or something like that,
but you can see that's quite disempowering
to give them the choice
and then say you're not happy with the answer.
So, really if you're gonna delegate,
you've gotta go with whatever they choose,
but if you're delegated to competent people, it'll be fine.
And actually, if you don't really care
which color the room is, why not let them decide?
So, that's delegate, where you have no control
over what they choose.
The only control you've got, I suppose,
is that you are monitoring what they're doing.
So, you could step in and say, "Hang on a minute.
"I don't like the color you are painting that,"
but you've really lost control over the decision.
But of course it's much quicker for you
and it's much more motivational for them.
And sometimes when you delegate to people
you actually get a better job than you would've done
because they know more than you
or they're just really motivated to have been given the job.
So, you might delegate something trivial
that you don't really assign much time and effort to,
but the person who gets it loves it.
"Ooh, I'm in charge of this now."
And they do a really careful, a really great job for you.
So, delegating is motivational and can give better quality
and can save you quite a bit of time.
The one downside is you don't have control.
So, Tannenbaum and Schmidt did those five,
tell, sell, consult, share and delegate.
But I want to add a couple more to the bottom
of their Management Continuum
because at the very bottom you'll find abdicate.
Now, they didn't recommend this
and I wouldn't recommend this,
but it's worth adding abdicate
because we need to understand what it means
and what the difference is between delegate and abdicate.
So, abdicate is where you say, "I want you to paint
"the room, whatever color you want to have,
"just go for it.
"I don't care."
It sounds very like delegating
in that you are letting them do what they like,
but the difference is that you don't care.
And that manifests itself in the fact
that you don't monitor.
You're probably not even there.
Probably abroad on holiday or something.
I've abdicated that.
So, abdicating is where you don't monitor,
and therefore, you're not available for support either.
So, if it does go wrong, you are not gonna be there
to catch them when they fall, it's their problem.
And your plan, of course, is just to blame them
if it goes wrong.
"Well I gave it to you, it's your fault it's gone wrong."
But if you abdicate and it goes wrong,
whose fault is it really?
And, of course, it's yours
because you decided to give it to those people.
You should have monitored.
You weren't there to give support.
So, if you don't know it's going wrong, it's your fault.
If you delegate and it goes wrong, it's also your fault
because you should know it's going wrong
if you're delegating, you should be monitoring.
And if it goes wrong, it's your fault for not supporting.
So, everything's management's fault as we've seen before.
Of course, with abdicate, it's much more likely
to go wrong, with delegate, we'll look at this
in more detail later, but it's not gonna go wrong
because you're monitoring and supporting.
So, delegating does not have risk,
whereas abdicating does have risk.
So, that leaves one more management style,
which is in between delegate and abdicate.
And the final management style is empower, empowerment.
And this is where you say to them,
"I want the wall to be repainted.
"I'm gonna let you do it however you like.
"It's totally up to you, you just go for it.
"I'm not gonna monitor because I trust you,
"but if you've got any problems,
"please do come to me and I will help."
So, with empowerment, you are not monitoring,
but you are still available for support.
So, you can see it's one step beyond delegating
where you are monitoring
because we're not gonna monitor, we trust them totally now.
We really do have no control,
but we are available for support.
And that's what makes it different to abdicate
'cause abdicating bosses are not available for support.
So, empowerment can sometimes be mistaken for abdication
because you're not monitoring, but it's very different.
And if people are gonna be empowered,
they have to understand that if they need support
they must come and ask for it
because you, the manager, will not know
there's a problem otherwise because you're not monitoring.
So, that's Tannenbaum and Schmidt's Management Continuum.
And you can see on this diagram
the effect that the various styles have on control,
motivation, time, and quality.
You can see that with control, it dwindles away
to nothing as you go down the sliding scale,
finally reaching empowerment where you have no control.
Motivation increases as you go down the scale,
as they have more and more control over what happens.
And it actually jumps up a step when you get to empowerment
because they're so happy to be trusted,
but it drops off again finally at abdicate
because people don't like to have a boss who doesn't care.
The time required is an interesting one
because it actually goes up to start with,
selling takes a bit of time, consulting takes lots of time.
Sharing takes ages,
but once you get over the hump,
delegation becomes brilliant
because when you delegate, you know,
you save a whole lot of time.
And then, empowerment is even better
because you haven't even got to monitor.
And obviously, abdicate's brilliant for time,
but I'm not gonna say that
'cause I'm not recommending abdicating.
And then, finally, quality.
I think quality increases as you go down the scale
because consulting and sharing,
you should get really good quality.
Now, delegating and empowering,
it depends who you delegate to.
It might be done slightly less well compared to you,
but you've saved a load of time
and perhaps it doesn't matter,
but quite often when you delegate or empower,
you actually get a better quality job
as well for the reasons I mentioned earlier.
So, of all the styles, if I had to pick one,
I'd pick delegating.
I think empowerment is brilliant for motivation,
but it is risky.
Whereas delegating is pretty good for motivation
and you save a lot of time and there's no risk
because you're monitoring.
So, if I had to pick a style, I would pick delegate,
but as we'll see later, different styles are required
for different situations.
So, I'm gonna tell you later on
how to decide which style to use.

--- Document: The Tannenbaum & Schmidt Management Continuum ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Which Is Best? Delegating, Abdicating, Empowerment or The Seagull? ---

-: Now in this section, I just want to clarify the difference
between delegating and abdicating and empowerment.
I've got a little chart here
that shows it, I think, really clearly.
So down the side,
I've got whether you're monitoring
what they're doing or not,
and across the top,
I've got whether you are giving them support or not.
So when you delegate, you should monitor and support.
So you watch what they're doing,
and if they need help, you give them help.
Now the amount of monitoring
is something we'll come back to later.
You might check on them every day,
every week, every hour, whatever.
But the point is you are monitoring,
and you are supporting, and that's what delegation is.
And we saw in the last section that with empowerment,
you don't monitor them because you trust them,
but you are still available for support.
So they have to come and ask if they need support
because you won't know because you're not monitoring.
So that's what empowerment is.
Abdicating, there's no monitoring,
and there's also no support.
So with abdicating,
you're not even there, and you don't care.
Abdicating is definitely a bad style of management.
You should never do it.
Really the choice is between delegate and empower,
depending on whether you can trust them to do it
without being monitored at all.
Okay, so abdicating is no monitoring and no support.
Now there is one more management style,
which is very commonly used,
which is monitoring and no support.
And this is the boss who just comes in and says,
"Well, that's no good.
You haven't done that very well.
You need to buck your ideas up," and they go away again.
And this is sometimes known
as the seagull style of management
'cause you come flapping in making lots of noise all over,
them and fly away again.
So that's seagull management.
Also bad. You also mustn't do it.
So we don't want seagull.
We don't want abdicating.
The choice is between delegate and empower.

--- Delegating: Understand When, How and The Best Way To Do It ---

-: In this next section, we're gonna look at delegating.
Delegation is only one of a number of management styles,
but it's probably the commonest and it's probably the best
and it is really important to understand delegation,
when to do it, how to do it, the best way to do it, etc.
So we're gonna look at delegation in detail now.

--- How To Empower Effectively and What Are The Benefits? ---

-: Now in this next section
I just want to explain empowerment a little bit more.
I've already explained how empowerment
is about trusting people and therefore not monitoring them
but still being available for support.
And I want to tell you about my friend Malcolm,
who's actually doing it.
Malcolm Smith.
Congratulations, Malcolm. You are the guy.
He's the nearest I've ever seen
to somebody who really is the captain of the ship.
He really is just standing on the bridge saying,
"Is everything running smoothly?"
I went to see him and I said to him,
"Can I come and see you on Tuesday maybe?"
And he said, yeah, "When do you want to come?"
He's managing director of this company with 200 people.
And I said, "Well, when are you free?"
He said, "I'm free all day, I can see you anytime."
So I said, "All right, 10:00."
So I turned up and there he was.
And we went into his office.
And his office had nothing in it.
There was a table, there was nothing on his desk.
There were no drawers, no filing cabinets,
no paper, nothing.
I said to him, "Is this really your office?
And he went, "Yeah, yep, this is where I think."
And I said, "What about all the stuff you're doing?"
And he said, "Well, I delegate everything."
I said, "Well what about the stuff you can't delegate?"
And he said, "Well, I delegate everything.
"I've got a really good team.
"I delegate everything."
I thought, "I just can't believe it."
So I got him to tell me a bit more about it.
And what he does is
when he says he delegates he actually empowers.
So for example,
when he first started out as boss of this company,
he's got a factory manager who's a very good guy.
And this factory manager used to bring Malcolm
a report every week of this is how many tons we've made.
This is the amount of waste, this is the profit, etc.
This is the overtime we've worked.
And Malcolm said to the guy, "Why are you bringing me this?"
And the guy said, "Well, it's what I've always done.
"And the previous boss wanted to see it every week."
And Malcolm said, "Well, I trust you
"so you don't need to bring me the report every week.
"You don't need to spend a whole hour writing it.
"And I don't have to spend half an hour reading it.
"If there's a problem, come and see me.
"Well, if there's a problem you can fix,
"then just work on it.
"You don't need to trouble me.
"But if there's a problem that you can't fix
"then come and see me and I will help you.
"I'll always be supportive and I will help you.
"And I've got extra time available to help you
"because I don't have to waste time reading reports."
So the guy never wrote his report.
Now, how would you feel about not having to send in
a weekly or monthly report to your boss?
Would you feel neglected?
Or would you feel that actually it's fantastic
that your boss trusts you?
I dunno, but that's what Malcolm did.
That's empowerment.
The next thing he did was he said to all the salespeople.
And by the way, they used to have a list
of which cars they could have,
depending on the patch they would have.
You know, you could have...
Had to be a four seater car.
You could have a sunroof and alloy wheels
if you reached a certain turnover or whatever.
Malcolm actually tore it up in front of them.
And he said, "From now on, just get whatever you like.
"Whatever you think is a sensible car, just get it.
"It's up to you.
"You can get anything you want."
Of course, to be empowered,
they have to be grownup people who understand the accounts,
you know how much money the company's got, etc.
And these were experienced salespeople.
And Malcolm said, "You can get whatever you like."
What do you think they did?
Do you think they all want and got Ferraris and Maseratis?
And the answer is no.
They nearly all got Mondeo diesels.
One guy got a BMW 'cause he'd always wanted a BMW.
And then whenever somebody had to drive to Yorkshire in it,
he would go, "Oh, I'll go."
He loved driving his BMW,
and he was really, really motivated by that.
And the others thought,
"Well, if he wants a beamer, good luck to him."
So if you trust them,
perhaps they will respond by becoming more trustworthy.
And that's what they did.
Now something else Malcolm did was that he said to himself,
"I'm bored with spending half an hour every week
"signing off people's expenses.
"I always sign, I always pass all of them.
"I always approve them.
"So what's the point?
"I'm not adding any value.
"'Cause I wanna spend my time
"thinking about vision and systems and people
"not signing expenses."
So he said to everybody,
"I'm not gonna check your expenses anymore.
"I have photocopied my signature
"onto the blank expense form.
"You still have to do an expense form
"'cause we still need a record of what's being spent
"for accounts or whatever, but I'm not gonna check it.
"I trust you.
"So just fill in the expense form, send it off to accounts.
"You will get paid."
That's what he did.
Saved him another half an hour a week.
Now how would you feel if somebody did that
and they said, "I'm not gonna check your expenses."
Would you fiddle your expenses?
Probably not.
So if anything, I think people might become more trustworthy
because you'd feel bad fiddling your expenses
if you knew that your boss trusted you
and wasn't gonna check.
There is perhaps the occasional person
who sneaks an extra 10 quid on their expenses
to buy flowers for their wife, say, but who cares?
Maybe their wife deserves flowers.
Is it such a big deal?
And if it motivates everybody else hugely
to not be checked on and it saves you half an hour a week,
it's worth 10 quid.
So I really like that.
I think it's a really interesting idea.
Now, I'm not saying you must do it.
You'll have to decide
whether it's appropriate in your company, but it might be.
Now some people say,
"Oh, I bet Malcolm checks the occasional one"
but he really doesn't.
'Cause the whole point is,
if you say you're gonna trust somebody
you've got to trust them.
If word came out that he checked
then that would undermine everything that he's doing.
By the way, he's also said to people
they don't have to clock in.
They can come in just work whatever hours they need to do
to do the job.
And he's also said to them
that he's not gonna count their holiday days either.
So rather than saying, "You've got 35 days
"and you've gotta take them all before Christmas."
He said, "Look, just do whatever's sensible.
"If you want to go for a longer holiday this year
"shorter one next year, up to you."
Now, Richard Branson did this recently
with Virgin, didn't he, their head office?
And he said he's not gonna count holiday days.
And I actually think, if anything,
they may take fewer holiday days.
'Cause I certainly have.
I remember thinking,
"Oh, I've got five days I gotta use up in December."
And I would just use them up.
Whereas if they weren't being counted,
I probably would've worked.
But even if I took more holiday days,
I'd make sure that I finished all the work I had to do
and that everything was running well in my department.
So you'd still get the same amount of work from me.
I would just be more motivated and more loyal.
So there are some empowerment ideas.
And I think empowerment's a fascinating area.
I did ask Malcolm,
"How do you know whether you can trust somebody?"
You know what if they're gonna just abuse your trust?
And he said, "I can just tell."
Now that worries me.
As an engineer, I wanna measure that.
How can you just tell?
But I think what you could do
is you could delegate for a while, monitor what they do.
And if it's good after a while you could say,
"Look, you've been doing this job brilliantly
"for a few years now.
"I totally trust you.
"I'm not gonna monitor you anymore.
"I just want you to know I trust you."
So they can earn their empowerment.
Now a final example of this.
A friend of mine went on holiday to France with his kids.
And they were about eight or nine years old.
And they were nagging him the whole time.
"Can we have an ice cream?
"Can we have chocolate?"
So the second time he went on holiday, he thought,
"Right, I'm gonna empower them and see what happens."
So he said to them on day one,
"Here is the 200 pounds spending money that we've got.
"It's yours.
"You can blow it all on day one on ice cream.
"You can eat 'til you're sick if you want.
"But once that money's gone, it's gone.
"No more chocolate, no more ice cream."
And in fact, he didn't just give them their money,
he gave them the spending money
for all four of them in the family.
And I wonder what happened.
And of course what happened was
that the kids immediately worked out a budget
of how much should we have for ice cream?
How much for chocolate?
How much for dad's wine or whatever?
They divided it all up.
And then they worked out how much they had
per day for each thing.
Because it was their money, they looked after it.
So, you know, halfway through they're saying to him,
"No, you can't have another bottle of wine, dad.
"'cause you had two yesterday."
They became complete little accountants.
And when they came back from the holiday,
they actually had money left over
because they had ownership.
So the essence of all this really is
that empowerment is to do with trust.
And trust leads to a feeling of ownership.
So those sales guys didn't buy Ferraris
because they're not just working for the company now,
they are the company.
And those cars,
they can see it's gonna come out of the company's money.
So empowerment can be really powerful.
I would urge you to at least consider
empowering your best people on some small areas
and just see how you get on.
But finally, I just wanna say
that what empowerment tells me
is that delegating is really safe.
If you're a bit anxious about empowering and trusting,
then at least now you can see
that if you delegate things all you have to do is monitor.
And by monitoring them, nothing can possibly go wrong.
So empowerment shows you how safe delegating is.
So there we are. That's your decision.
Are you going to empower or are you going to delegate?

--- Why Should You Delegate? ---

-: So why would you want to delegate work
to other people or possibly empower them?
Six advantages.
The first one is motivation.
People love to be given things to do
and their first reaction might be,
"Oh, I've been given this job,"
but actually they get the satisfaction
of achievement and overcoming challenges.
So motivation's the first reason for delegating.
Secondly is you may get better quality work
than if you were doing it yourself.
Sometimes people will do it better than you,
and you might be thinking, "Well, I wouldn't have
done it like that," but actually, their way
could be just as good as yours, if not better.
And I mentioned earlier that if they're given something
that you would regard as trivial and boring,
they might love it and they may do a better job than you.
Third is they can learn,
and everybody has to have a certain amount of learning
in their job for their motivation.
So delegating is a way to get people to learn.
Fourth is your time.
It's obviously quicker to give work to other people.
Takes a bit of time to explain it,
but it's worth it because you save time in the end.
Fifth is you spread the risk.
So if something happens to you or if it happens
to the one other person who knows how to do it,
if you've delegated it to a third person every now and then,
it means that if somebody leaves or is ill
or just is too busy to be available,
you've got other people who can do it.
And the final one is it frees you up to be promoted,
so the more you can delegate, the better.
And some people worry that if they delegate too much,
their boss will think they're not doing anything.
But of course that's a ridiculous fear
because the only way you can be promoted
is if other people can do the job
that you're currently doing.
So you don't want to be indispensable
or you can never be promoted.
So do consider delegating as much as you can.

--- Worried About Delegating? How To Overcome The Reasons Not To Delegate ---

-: Now you hear all sorts of objections
to delegating barriers,
excuses for why people don't delegate.
I suppose the real reason probably deep down is just fear
that it will go wrong.
But as we've already seen,
that's an unfounded objection because if you're monitoring
and ready to step in and support, it can't go wrong.
But fear that it might go wrong is a common fear.
Maybe fear that the people who work
for you are going to become better than you.
But of course, that's ridiculous.
We want them to be better than us.
So you know, don't have that as a fear.
They might be better than me.
They might do it better than me.
I might look bad.
If you've got people doing a brilliant job for you,
you will look good as well as their leader.
What about the excuse?
I'm too busy to explain it.
Now actually, that might be true
if you are in a desperate hurry.
But if you can somehow find the time to explain it
to the person, that's gonna pay off many times over
in the future when they do it
for you next time and the time after.
So, haven't got time to teach them
or haven't got time to explain it is a ridiculous problem,
isn't it, really?
And if you are so busy, you don't have time to explain it,
it just shows you should have delegated some other stuff.
What about it's fun or I'm the best at it.
And I think it is fun to go back
to doing what you used to do.
And it probably is true that you are the best at it.
'Cause that's why you were made the boss.
But you have to let that go.
You have to delegate to other people who may not
be as brilliant as you, but they'll learn over time.
How can they ever be as good
as you if you don't give it to them at some point?
So, it's fun.
I'm sorry, management isn't necessarily about fun.
You've gotta let it go and you are the best at it.
Well, you've gotta teach them to be as good
as you, haven't you?
And final reason why you might not delegate, I think is
well actually, there's two more really, isn't there?
There's, you might run out of work, "Oh,
I'm not gonna delegate, I'll run out of work."
But that's ridiculous because you can always
have more time for thinking about the vision
and improving the systems and improving the people.
You will never delegate yourself out of work.
Don't worry about that.
And if your boss thinks that because you've got time
to actually think, rather than running around
like a headless chicken firefighting,
if they think that that means you haven't got enough to do
then your boss is stupid and you don't wanna work for them.
So you're not gonna delegate yourself out of a job.
But what about the reverse of that, which is
that they're too busy.
And I think this is an interesting one.
I can't delegate 'cause my people are too busy.
They're already 100% occupied.
Well, what I would say is suppose they're 90% occupied.
Are they going to sit around doing nothing for 10%
of the time in front of you?
And the answer is no.
They're always gonna look busy when you are there.
And in fact, what they will do if they're 90% occupied
is they will slow down slightly
and become a bit less efficient.
But also they might put the quality up.
It's either efficiency down or quality up.
So they may do a slightly better quality job
because they've got more time.
So imagine, let's do a little thought experiment here.
Okay?
Imagine that you've got 10 people who work
for you and it everything's perfect.
They're exactly fully used doing the work they do.
And then due to an admin error, you get an 11th person.
So suddenly, everybody's got 10% spare time.
What will they do?
The answer is they'll improve the quality
of what they're doing a little bit
and they become slightly less efficient.
So now, they all look busy again.
So imagine that you are replaced by a new boss
who comes along and says, "Ooh, I'd like to delegate more
but my people appear to be fully occupied of."
Because what we know is there's 10% slack in the system.
We know there's 11 people doing the work of 10.
We know that that slack is hidden
by the increased quality and the reduced efficiency.
And we know that if you did delegate another 10%
to those people, they would fit it in.
And they would do that
by reducing the quality a little bit only
to an acceptable level though, where it was before.
And by becoming slightly more efficient.
So you can put in an extra 10% in our thought experiment.
So my point is, when your people look busy, how do you know
that there isn't some spare capacity that's hidden
by over-quality and under-efficiency?
And the only way you can ever find out is to try it.
Just try giving them one more thing.
And I bet they'll fit it in.
I bet if you suddenly announce that outside,
there's George Clooney and Kylie Minogue dancing,
wearing only pants or something, and you said to them,
"You're allowed to watch this only
if you can still do your work."
Of course, they would still do their work.
They can always fit in one more thing.
So you should never have the argument
of they're too busy as a reason to not delegate.
So if you think about it,
every objection to delegating is actually false.
What's your pet objection?
Whatever it is.
I bet it's false.
So please do try delegating a bit more
than you would normally do.
And just a final thought,
if you can delegate just one more hour a week
then that's gonna get you another 50 hours a year.
So, let's call that an extra working week.
So you could have a whole extra working week of time.
And that's not a normal week
with interruptions and emails and phone calls and meetings.
This is a pure week of pure time you could have
if you just delegated one hour a week.
So delegating is so important.
It's the number one management skill.
If a manager tells me he's too busy,
it's the first thing I'd look at is does he delegate enough?
So you absolutely must get better at delegating.
I'm gonna tell you a couple
of stories in the next two videos
which I hope will really emphasize this point for you.

--- What Would Happen To Your Team Or Company If You Weren't There? ---

-: Now, the first of my two negotiating stories
I want to tell you is about a friend of mine,
I'm gonna call him Nick, and he runs a company.
He's got about 10 people who work for him.
It's only a small company.
They have about 10 people working for him
and they are all useless according to Nick.
So his company structure is him in the middle
and all these people just do little jobs for him.
And basically he's the key guy.
He's the one who does most of the selling.
He decides on the prices,
he develops new product ideas.
He is the heart of the company.
He's got his 10 people who work for him
and they're all rubbish.
Anyway, one day Nick was coming home from work
on his motorbike and he had a crash.
A tractor had dumped a load of manure on the road
as it went round a corner by mistake
and Nick skidded on the manure, sliding up the road,
there's a lady coming the other way in a car.
She managed to just swerve and miss his motorbike,
but she ran over him.
So Nick woke up in intensive care, lucky to be alive.
He had both arms broken, both legs broken,
pelvis, the whole lot.
He shouldn't really have survived.
By the way, the first thing I knew about this
was I was gonna meet him for a curry in the evening
and he didn't turn up.
And me and the others were all slagging off Nick,
"Oh, Nick's always late, he always forgets."
Little do we know the poor bloke was in intensive care.
So anyway, I discovered later that what had happened
and I went to see him in hospital.
He was lying there with everything bandaged.
And my first thought actually was,
"What's gonna happen to his company?"
Apparently he was gonna be out for a whole year.
It was gonna be a year before he could walk.
And I remember thinking his company's gonna fall apart,
and that's his livelihood and this is a disaster.
And it did take a whole year for him to recover.
The brilliant NHS rebuilt him.
He's got lots of metal all over.
He can't go through airports anymore
with all his metal bits,
and he's now fine again, but he was out for a whole year.
Guess what happened to his company
for that year when he was out?
The 10 useless people?
And of course you guessed it,
they had their best year ever without Nick.
Now he's back, performance has gone back down again.
And I said to Nick, "Do you think that might be a sign,
the big finger coming down from heaven
saying delegate more?"
And Nick said, "Oh no, no,
it was just the way the market was for that year."
And I'm thinking, you know, the fact that they could run
the company without him for a whole year
shows that maybe he could delegate more.
Now, I'm not saying you should go
and have a motorbike crash, but what you could do,
is you could have an imaginary motorbike crash.
Come into work and think, what if I wasn't here?
Who would do all these jobs?
Make a list of everything you can't delegate and think,
who can I give this to?
Who must I give this to if I'm not here?
Because if you delegated everything,
but you were still there to catch them if they fall,
that's gonna be great, isn't it?
'Cause I suspect they had a good year, but they still made
some fairly stupid mistakes without Nick,
'cause suddenly they were dropped into running the place.
So imagine if you delegated,
you totally trusted them to get on with it,
but you were there to give them support if necessary.
Wouldn't it be fantastic?
You'd do even better than Nick's company did
and I bet your company could run without you.
So therefore, why not delegate a whole load of stuff.
Spend half the time on the golf course
or sailing or whatever.
You could do it.
So I think the next story is actually quite inspirational.
So there we are, have a think about that.
That's the motorbike crash story.

--- What Happens If You Don't Delegate: The Cushion Story ---

-: Now, my other delegating story
is something I call the cushion story.
And there's a friend of mine, very successful,
runs a big company in London.
I'm gonna call him Toby.
And he runs this company
that does refurbishing of offices and buildings.
And he's got about 90 people working for him.
And I was doing a time management course for him,
well, for his managers.
He was too busy to come on the course, which is ironic.
He works really long hours.
Really clever guy, very hardworking, very successful.
Works really long hours,
and he doesn't really like working the long hours.
Anyway, I was doing the time management course
and I thought at lunchtime,
it'd be quite nice to just catch up
but I hadn't seen him for a while.
Catch up with Toby, see what's going on.
So I went and sat in his office to eat my cheese roll
and have a chat.
And it was a bit disappointing
because I couldn't chat to him.
I couldn't get a word in,
because of the constant stream of people
coming into his office
to ask him trivial questions.
I remember one person came in with these two cushions,
slightly different shades of red,
and said, "Hey Toby,
which color should be used for the Vodafone job?"
And Toby said, "Oh, I'd go for that one."
And he went, "Oh, thanks," and off he went.
Now, as soon as the bloke had left the room, I said to Toby,
you could have delegated that
'cause he is after all the managing director,
why is he choosing cushion colors?
And Toby said, "Well, yeah, but it only took a minute."
And I said, "Yeah, but I know it was only a minute,
but it's death by a thousand cuts,
'cause you have hundreds of people coming in every day
to ask you these trivial questions."
And he said, "Yeah, you're right, I suppose."
And I was thinking,
why did that bloke bring those cushions in?
And I suspect it was probably because a few months before
or a few years before, Toby had told somebody off,
what idiot chose that color of cushion?
So from then on, it was always check with Toby first.
So he'd made a rod for his back.
From that moment on, everything would be brought to him
for him to approve.
So I suspect it was because of that.
And now, he's rewarding bad behavior,
'cause every time they come to him,
he goes, I would use that one.
So they carry on always bringing him stuff.
What he should say is,
why are you bringing me those cushions?
You decide.
Or perhaps slightly nicer,
he could say, well, what do you think?
And if the guy picks the right color,
you can say, brilliant, go with that.
And if the guy picks the right color five times in a row,
Toby could then promote him up to delegate.
He could say, look,
you don't need to bring them to me every time.
Just do it.
So there's really something wrong with it.
If the managing director is doing all this trivial stuff
when he really hasn't got enough time
to think about the big important strategy questions,
which is what he should be thinking about.
And really, it goes back to the systems and people,
doesn't it?
Because either there should be a system
where the color swatch is agreed
with a customer at the beginning
and then everybody just compares the cushion
with the color swatch.
Or there should be a person in charge
of cushion color choosing.
And it shouldn't be the managing director.
So that person probably would do other things
apart from just cushions, by the way.
But it would be somebody's job.
They have ownership of that.
And everybody can go to them and check the colors.
So it shouldn't be the MD.
Anyway, I said to Toby, "You really shouldn't be doing it."
He went, "Yeah, I know really."
And I said, "Well, to know and not do is to not know."
But I was thinking, we all do that, don't we?
We all know that we should delegate it, but then we don't.
And so I said to him, "I know,
why don't I follow you around for a day?
And every time there's something
that you could have delegated, I could just whisper to you,
you could have delegated that.
And I could just keep all day saying,
you could have delegated that.
You could have delegated that."
And I'll do that for 800 pounds.
Do you think he took me up on the offer?
No.
He said, "No, no, no."
He said, "I know what I can do.
I can do it."
But I actually think that would've been money
and time well spent to get me in there,
'cause I reckon with a whole day of me following him,
I would've forced him to delegate a lot more.
And he would've started to think, actually, this is great.
I'm free of all this small stuff.
So imagine you've got me on your shoulder
constantly watching what you're doing going,
could you have delegated that?
I think you could.
And maybe that's a really important thing you could do.
You know, tomorrow, watch yourself for the whole day.
Even perhaps write on a post-it note.
Could I delegate this?
And hold it in your hand for the whole day
and just try to force yourself,
never again will you decide cushion colors.
Even though it's easy,
even though you're great at it, you've moved on now.
You're a manager.
You are a leader.
You shouldn't be doing trivia like that.

--- How to Delegate - The Eight Steps to Successful Delegation ---

-: This next section is on how to delegate.
You might think it's common sense,
you just say, I'm delegating this job to you,
but actually it's not as clear as that.
So I want to give you a couple of ideas
about kind of when you could be delegating
and then the words to use.
So the first thing I wanna say is delegate it 80%.
So just because the person can't do it a 100%
as well as you,
if they're gonna do it 80% as well as you give it to them,
that last 20% doesn't really matter.
And also it's probably in your own mind.
Now, just to be clear about this,
if it's something like a brain transplant
then it probably does have to be a 100%.
But if somebody's gonna just decide what color a cushion is,
80% is gonna be fine.
And actually even the brain transplant at some point
that new doctor has to be given the operation
to do themselves.
And that last 20% probably is in your own mind.
You're thinking, well, I wouldn't do it like that,
but their way is probably fine.
It might even be better than yours.
So if they're 80% good enough, stick to that, okay?
That's the first thing I want to say about that.
Now, oh, yeah, actually the other thing I wanted to add is,
how will they get to a 100%?
They've gotta start somewhere.
So I'm not saying you should delegate if they're down at 20,
clearly they need more training and coaching,
you'd work together with them on that.
But if they're up at 80,
at some point you have to hand over.
If you wait for them to reach a 100,
you'll wait forever.
Now the second thing I want to say
is about the idea of challenge.
Suppose I've got two people I can delegate something to.
I can give it to Louise, she's done it before.
She can do it easily.
She can do it virtually in her sleep.
Or I can give it to Miles, who's a good guy, but he's new.
He perhaps hasn't done it before.
He is gonna find it more difficult,
perhaps won't do it quite as well as she will,
perhaps might need a bit of help from me.
Who should I give it to?
Now obviously if I'm really pushed for time
and it's an emergency, I'll just give it to Louise.
But if I've got a bit of time, I should give it to Miles,
shouldn't I?
Even though he's gonna take a bit more of my time
to supervise and take a bit longer
and perhaps be more expensive in the doing of it,
it's worth it because it's part of Miles's training.
So if I give it to Miles, he gets to learn how to do it.
He gets the enjoyment of succeeding
when he's taking on a challenge.
So he's happier.
And I've still got Louise in reserve
who can do something else for me,
something bigger and more difficult.
So in the end, Miles learns and becomes as good as Louise.
And Louise is also moving on up.
If I give it to Louise, she's bored and so is Miles.
So that's just lose lose.
So give it to the person who's gonna find it a challenge
at least some of the time,
and maybe turn it on its head,
instead of thinking,
who shall I give this job to,
thinking what can I give Miles
that will give him a challenge?
And what can I give to Louise
that will give her a challenge?
And start with the person rather than the job.
So that's the 80% and the challenge.
Now the other thing I want to just talk about
is the words to use when you're delegating
rather than just, here's a job, get on with it.
I actually think there are eight things
you need to say when delegate.
Now you probably wouldn't be able to get this checklist out
when you're actually delegating,
but just have a think and see if there are any of these
that you tend to miss
and practice just including them next time
you delegate something.
The first thing is to very clearly to say what it is
that you want.
I think that's obvious.
And the second thing is to say why it's important.
So big the job up a bit.
Say, I've got this really important job
and I want you to do it
so they feel good about being given it.
Third thing is why them?
I'm giving this to you
because you are really good at doing this,
or I'm giving you this
because I want you to learn about this
'cause I want you to be our resident expert
on this in the future.
So why the job's important and why them?
The fourth thing is what the limits are.
So the limit of time, when do I need it?
And the limit of money, how much are they allowed to spend?
So tell them what their budgets of time and money are.
The fifth thing is the reporting process.
So it is very important to say to them,
come and see me once a week
to tell me how you're getting on,
or let's meet every morning for an update,
or just email me when you've done the first part.
But how much control are you gonna keep?
How much monitoring,
how tightly do you want to monitor what they're doing?
And you need to define that with them at the start.
The level of reporting.
Number six of my eight things you need to say are,
you need to say to them,
"If there are any problems at all, do come and see me.
I will always be supportive
if you come to me with problems."
So you need to make it clear to them
that they can come to you if they have any difficulties.
Now remember, if you're empowering,
they absolutely must come to you if there's a problem
'cause you won't know.
But even with delegating,
make sure they understand
that it's not gonna be any cause for shame
if they come to you and say,
I've got a bit stuck or this has gone a bit wrong,
because you're giving them something new, and big,
and difficult and you are there to help them,
make sure that's spelt out at the beginning.
The seventh thing is just to check okay.
Say to them, are you okay with that?
Do you understand it?
To you it's something easy that you're giving them,
but to them it might be quite a big difficult thing.
I remember once my boss delegated to me to improve links
with French universities and I remember thinking,
"I don't even dunno where to even start."
So I just thought, I won't do anything.
I'll just avoid it.
I hope he forgets and each time I saw him I'd be worrying.
He was gonna say, "How are you getting on
with the French universities?"
'Cause I hadn't done anything.
Looking back, of course I was a fool.
It was a great excuse for a jolly,
I should just gone over to France.
Shouldn't I?
Had a load of meetings over there with lots of wine,
but I just thought, "I don't know where to even start.
I don't wanna phone them up.
I can't speak enough French to do that."
So I got away with it for a couple of years,
actually he never mentioned it.
And then after two years I had my appraisal and he said,
"Oh, what happened with that French university thing?"
And I had to confess I'd done nothing.
But I think it was mainly his fault
'cause he should have said to me,
"So are you happy with that?
Do you know what you're gonna do?"
And if I'd looked at all vague and go,
well, I think so.
He could have said,
"Okay, so what's the first step you're gonna take then?"
Just probe a bit.
Just check the person really is okay, are they gonna do it?
Do they know how to do it?
Do they want to do it?
Are they happy with doing it?
So just ask a few questions.
And then the eighth thing you need to do
is just to say you can do it.
I know it's gonna be great.
I'm really looking forward
to seeing you deliver a brilliant job on this,
it's gonna be fine.
You can do it.
So those are the eight things you need to do
when you delegate something.

--- Get People To Fix Their Own Problems - Don't Take the Monkey ---

-: Now when you're delegating,
there's one more thing you need to know about,
which is the concept of taking the monkey.
This first came from a book called,
"The One Minute Manager Meets the Monkey."
It's a good book, I'd recommend reading it.
And the idea is that when someone comes to see you
and they say, "Boss, I've got this problem.
What do you think?"
Or "Boss, I've been talking to this supplier
and they're not being very helpful."
If you say, "Okay, leave it with me",
there's an imaginary monkey that jumps
from their back onto yours.
And that's okay,
sometimes maybe you should take that monkey.
But the problem is, if you've got five people who work
for you and they give you two monkeys a day,
you're taking 10 monkeys a day.
You're taking 50 monkeys a week,
and you probably can't deal with that many.
You might go into the red by 30 monkeys a week
'cause you've only dealt with 20 of them.
So after a month, you've got, what is that?
120 monkeys on your back.
And what will happen is that they'll say to you,
"Boss, did you ever get that supplier sorted out for me?"
And you'll say, "Oh no,
I still haven't done it, I'm afraid."
And now you are working for them.
If they're saying, "Boss, how's it coming?"
If they're chasing you, you're working for them.
So you have now got, let's say,
five bosses giving you monkeys every day.
And there's no way you can work for five bosses.
You know, it's bad enough working for one,
and you've got a real boss, of course,
who's giving you monkeys too.
So, the essence is, don't take the monkey.
So if somebody comes to you with something and says,
"Boss, I've got this supplier and, you know,
he's causing me trouble, what shall I do?"
Don't say, "Leave it with me."
That monkey is poised to jump.
What you must say is, "What have you tried so far?"
And if they say, "Well, I've tried this, this, and this",
you could say, "Well, why don't you try this?"
And they could go, "Oh, okay, yeah, I'll try that",
And then you could say, "Brilliant.
"So when will you be able to let me know how you got on?
How long will it take?"
And they'll say, "Well, I'll know by tomorrow."
"Brilliant, come and see me tomorrow, bye",
and off they go.
And as they leave your office,
you can see the monkey on their back and it feels good.
Now what if they say, "Well, I don't know what to do.
I've tried all the things I can think of."
The monkey's about to jump.
But what you can do is you can say,
"Well, how long would it take you to come up with a plan?
Some suggestions, maybe if you go and research
perhaps talk to Dave, he knows about this.
How long would it take you to come up
with some options of what you could do?"
And if they say, "Well, it'd probably take me a day,
I suppose, to go to see Dave and think about it",
you can say, "Okay, well come back
and see me tomorrow afternoon
and we'll have a look at what options you've got."
And off they go with the monkey
on their back and it feels good.
Now, when they come back the next day you could say,
"So, right, what options have you got?"
And suppose they have several.
You could say, "Well, which one
do you think you should pick?"
And they'll either pick one, in which case you can say,
"Brilliant, let me know how you get on in a day's time",
or they can say, "I don't know which one to pick".
And then again, you can say, "Well how long
would it take you to decide which one to pick?"
And if they say "Well, I need a day to think about it",
again, you send them off and say,
"Okay, well come back tomorrow
and tell me which one you're gonna pick, bye"
And off they go with the monkey on their back
and it feels good.
So you can see there's a bit of a pattern here.
The game is to say to them, I want you to do it,
how long will it take?
Now what if they say, "But I want you to do it",
you can say, "Well, you know, one of us has got to do it,
and as the boss, it's my job to decide which of us does it,
and I've decided it's you.
So I'd like you to go away and think about it
and come back to me with a plan, please."
So you've got control and you're not gonna take that monkey.
Now, very occasionally, you may have to,
but you should have a feeling
of failure if you take the monkey.
Okay, you should be thinking,
ah, I had to say "Leave it with me."
Now, sometimes they'll come to you with something like,
"I'm having a problem with the marketing department.
Please, could you talk to the marketing manager
and sort it out?"
Now the monkey is poised to jump,
but what you can do is you can say,
"Well, okay, just hang on there,
I'll phone them and I'll set up a meeting."
So you phone the marketing manager and you say,
"Dave, I've got Fred with me here
and he's having a bit of problems.
Would it be possible for him to come and see you,
with my authority, to come and see you and get an answer?
Could you promise you'll help him?"
And the marketing guy says, "Yep, yep,
no worries, send him over."
And I go, "Brilliant, he's ready for you,
you can go and see him now."
So while I had that conversation with the guy waiting,
the monkey was poised to jump, but he didn't,
he stayed on the other guy's back.
And off goes the other guy, with my authority,
but off he goes with the monkey still
on his back and it feels good.
So that's the principle of not taking the monkey.
People who've never heard of it before often say
to me, "Wow, God, I'd never thought of it like that before".
And when I see them later they say
it's really changed their life.
So I hope you really take that one on board.
From now on, make it a game to not take the monkey.

--- Leadership Styles: Which Tannenbaum & Schmidt Style Should You Use? ---

-: So, we started with leadership styles
looking at Tannenbaum and Schmidt.
We then looked at delegation in detail,
as probably the best Tannenbaum and Schmidt style.
But I now want to go back
to leadership style or management style,
and I want to look at some theories which will tell you more
about which Tannenbaum and Schmidt style you should use.

--- How To Lead Using The Situational Leadership Theory ---

-: So, in this next section,
I want to tell you about situational leadership.
There's a theory that was thought of
by Hersey and Blanchard,
it first came out in their book
called "The One Minute Manager."
In fact, I think it was "Leadership
and the One Minute Manager" that it was in.
They made it a bit more complicated
than it needs to be in their book,
maybe 'cause they wanted it to be a whole book
so I'm just gonna tell you about it in a few minutes.
But it is a brilliant theory.
I think it's one of the most practical leadership theories.
And what it says is that you should look at a person
in terms of how competent they are.
So in my diagram here,
I've got not competent and competent.
And you should also look at them
in terms of how motivated they are.
So I've got motivated and not motivated.
They called it committed rather than motivated,
but I think it's the same thing.
So we've got these combinations.
Now, clearly, the top right is where we want to be.
What we want is for everyone who works for us
to be competent and motivated.
And wouldn't life be simple
if everybody knew how to do the job
and wanted to do the job?
You could just delegate to everybody.
It would be easy.
Your only dilemma would be
whether to delegate or empower.
And as I've mentioned earlier,
I think, if in doubt, delegate.
And if they keep doing a really good job,
after a while you can promote them up
into the empowerment corner
and not even check on them anymore
because you can trust them.
So that's the top right
and its little dilemma of whether to empower.
By the way, empowerment wasn't in their original theory,
but I think it should be included.
The problems happen in the other three boxes.
So if you look at the top left box,
which is where people are motivated
but they're not competent,
what are we gonna do about them?
Why would they be in that box?
What sort of a person
would be not competent but motivated?
And it's got to be a new person.
They've just arrived, they want to do the job,
but they don't know how.
And in fact, I don't think
you could sustain being in that box.
You couldn't be there 10 years later going,
"Oh, dear, another mistake. Still, nevermind.
I love my job though. Oh, another mistake."
What's gonna happen is
either you're gonna become competent
and you're gonna move across into the delegate box,
or you're gonna get depressed
'cause the job's just too hard for you to learn
and you're gonna plunge downwards.
So this top left box really is for people
who are new in the job.
So what management style should we have for new people?
And it's tell, really.
It's training, it's teaching,
it's saying to them, "This is how you do it."
Imagine if you've got your new Apple computer.
You don't know how to switch it on
'cause you're used to a PC.
The last thing you want is me coming along with sell,
going, "Ooh, wouldn't it be good
when you can use your Apple?"
"I know that! Just tell me how."
So you just want tell.
And in the ideal world, we will tell them how to do it,
they will gradually become competent,
they'll move across the top
into the delegate box after a while,
and they won't ever plunge down into the depths
of de-motivation,
which is what we need to look at next.
We just want them to move across the top.
So what about the bottom right box?
These are the people who are competent
but not motivated.
Why would they be there?
Well, it's probably bad management.
They've got bored, they've been neglected.
Perhaps they feel they should have been promoted
and they weren't.
So these are actually quite a valuable resource,
these people, because they're competent.
And the game is to try to motivate them.
And how do we do that?
And the answer is we do it by using an involving style.
We consult them for information,
we involve them in our decisions.
Maybe you're gonna buy a a new machine,
so you can go and see that miserable guy
who's on the machine at the end
who's been on there for years
and say, Fred, "I want to get a new machine.
I want to ask you for your advice.
Will you come with me to the supplier
and have a look at options?"
And he'll go, "Oh, no one ever asks me."
And you can say, "Well, I am."
"Oh, well, all right then," he'll say.
And hopefully, he'll rise to it
and he'll love being consulted.
So with these sort of people,
you could call it information out
as a way to motivate them,
we pull information out from them
as a way to involve them
and include them and make them feel good.
And we will thank them for their help.
Thanking, okay?
Now, what about the bottom left box?
They're not competent and they're not motivated either.
What are we gonna do about them?
Well, usually on training courses,
people say, "Sack them,"
but I don't think you should sack them.
I think you should at least give them some chances.
For a start, why are they in that box?
It's probably your fault.
Everything's management's fault, remember.
If you've got somebody who's in the wrong job,
they would be not competent and not motivated.
It doesn't mean they're a bad person,
they're in the wrong job.
Maybe the job they were given is too difficult for them,
but it could just be they haven't been trained.
So if they're not trained, they won't be competent.
And that will then mean also
that they will become demotivated
'cause it's too hard for them.
So it could just be that they need coaching.
So the recommended style for the bottom left box
is a coaching style, you could call it information in.
So the idea is that, by teaching them stuff,
we motivate them and improve their competence.
And that's really what a coach is for.
If you think about a tennis coach, say,
their job is to make the person more competent
and more motivated.
You could think of it as a little staircase, really,
because, as the person learns one thing,
they become more competent
and that motivates them a little bit
and they go, "Oh, I'm really glad I've learned that.
So, you know, what else can I learn?"
You teach them the next bit, and that motivates them
and they become a bit more competent,
a bit more motivated,
and they staircase their way up
from bottom left to top right.
So from all of the other three boxes,
we're trying to move them up into the top right.
So the bottom left, it's all about explaining,
encouraging, coaching, and praising.
So it's praise on the left side of the diagram,
it's thank on the right side of the diagram.
So that's situational leadership.
In the next section, I want to give you
an example of how you might apply it.

--- Document: Situational Leadership - Considerations When Delegating ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- How To Prevent Delegation Failure ---

-: Now I want to illustrate situational leadership
with a story about how it went wrong.
And I was just having a curry
with a friend of mine, he's a managing director,
and he was telling me about one of his guys called Dave
and he was saying, "Oh, Dave's really let me down.
In fact, Dave's let me down twice."
And I thought, everything's the management's fault.
And if somebody lets you down twice,
you've gotta wonder
why didn't you learn after the first time?
So I asked him about it and it was really interesting
and that's what I wanna share with you.
So what happened was,
the boss guy was looking for somebody
who could do a project for him
and he was looking around and his eye alighted upon Dave.
Now Dave is very good technically,
he's also very good one-to-one with people.
He's a user-friendly techie and that's a valuable thing.
So the boss thought, brilliant,
he'll be perfect for running this project that I've got,
'cause the project involves the technical side
and the people side, so I'll put Dave in charge.
So he said to him,
"Right, Dave, you're in charge of the project.
Good luck. See you in six months."
And he just gave him the project.
He called it delegating,
but really it was abdicating, wasn't it?
'Cause he wasn't even available for support.
Now if you think about situational leadership,
when it comes to the technical side,
Dave is competent and motivated, top right box.
When it comes to people,
he's motivated and competent, top right box.
But when it comes to project management, where is he?
And the point about this story
is that a person isn't in one of these boxes.
It's called situational leadership
because a situation is in one of the boxes.
So the situation of Dave being put in charge of a project
is actually bottom left.
He's not competent in project management.
He doesn't know anything about it.
He hasn't been on my excellent course.
But also he's not motivated.
He doesn't want to be put in charge of all of his friends
and taken off the lovely job of coding that he's so good at
and go into management.
So the boss hadn't discovered that Dave wasn't competent
or motivated for either of these things,
so he just said, off you go.
So he gave him a delegating style mistakenly
because he was top right for everything else.
And what he should have done, of course,
was a coaching style.
He should have sat down with Dave and said,
"Okay, Dave, you haven't done project management before,
but don't worry 'cause I'm gonna work with you.
I'm gonna teach you how to do it and it's gonna be great
and I'm gonna add this to your collection of skills.
So tell me what would you do first?"
And Dave would say,
"Well, I'd probably just start writing code."
And he would go, "No, no, no, why not do a Gantt chart?"
And Dave would go, "Well, what's one of those?"
So he could teach you,
he could teach Dave how to do project management.
And Dave could gradually learn and become competent
and become more motivated as he becomes competent.
And he could move Dave up to the top right box.
But he didn't.
He just delegated to Dave, abdicated and left it.
And the whole thing went horribly wrong.
It was something like a hundred grand over budget.
It was a total disaster.
And Dave just got massively reprimanded
for his incompetence.
And yet, of course, everything's management's fault.
The wrong style was used.
Anyway, six months later another project came along
and the boss was thinking,
who can I put in charge of this project?
And the only person available was Dave again.
And the boss thought,
well, hopefully Dave learned a bit from last time.
And so he decided to give the job to Dave again
and he decided to motivate Dave with money.
So he said to him, "Dave, I'm giving you this job,
and instead of paying you 30 grand,
if it goes well and comes in on time and on budget,
I'm gonna give you 40.
If it goes wrong and comes in late,
I'm only gonna give you 20."
What do you suppose happened?
And the answer is, he saved 10 grand on his wage bill,
but another project went a hundred grand over budget,
because what happened was Dave was just terrified.
He still had the smell of failure
in his nose from last time.
So he was thinking, "Oh no, it's gonna go wrong.
I hate project management."
The money didn't help at all. It just frightened him.
Now if the money had motivated Dave
and he'd thought, "Yes, I really want to earn 40 grand,"
he would've become motivated
but he still wouldn't have been competent.
So he would've gone up to the top left box.
So then what the boss should have done
was he should have said,
"I'm gonna motivate you with money, you're gonna get 40k,
and I'm gonna tell you how to get the 40k.
Here's what you have to do."
And if he'd done that, Dave would've gone,
"Brilliant, okay, I'll just follow the steps,
I'll get my 40k."
So if the motivation had worked
and if the boss had done tell, that might have worked out.
But of course what really happened
was the motivation didn't work
and the boss didn't give Dave anymore help.
He still just left him in delegate mode.
It was totally unsuitable
for someone in the bottom left box.
So the whole thing was a complete failure, I'm afraid.
The project went a hundred grand over,
Dave got reprimanded a second time.
Dave now hates the idea of project management.
And in fact what happened was Dave left the company.
So we were having this conversation over curry
and I just drew out the little four boxes on a napkin
and the boss was going, "Ah, of course, I can see it now."
'Cause the thing is
that situational leadership is such a simple thing really
once you've seen the theory.
So I wanted to tell you that story to make it come alive,
but also to stress the fact it's not about a person,
it's not Dave's a good guy, he's in the top right box,
I'll delegate everything to him.
You've gotta work out where is Dave
for this particular situation.
And you are probably in all four of those boxes
for different things.
There are probably things that you love doing and are great,
things that you'd like to learn but don't know about,
things that you're a bit bored with
and perhaps even things that you hate doing
and are just really bad at.
There are bound to be some parts of your job you hate.
So we are all in all four parts of this box
and therefore we want our boss to select the correct style
for whichever situation we've got.

--- The Freedom Ladder Theory: How Much Freedom Should You Give? ---

-: Now there's another leadership style theory
that I really like and I'm gonna explain this
and then I'll tell you how it relates
to Tannenbaum and Schmidt.
Now this theory is called, "The Freedom Ladder."
And it starts with a little box
at the bottom called, "Wait until told."
Now there are some people who are in the wait
until told box and that's just what they're like.
They turn up to work and they just sit there
until you give them a job to do.
And when they finish the job, they just sit there again
till you give them another job to do.
And I suppose they're all right.
At least they're obedient.
You could argue there's a box
below it called "Don't do what you're told,"
but hopefully you've got nobody in that box.
So I think the bottom box really is, "Wait until told."
Now there's a box above that called, "Ask what next."
And these are the people who say,
"I've done that, what shall I do now?"
At least there's a bit of initiative,
a bit of motivation there.
And hopefully you can bring people up
from the bottom box to the second one
by getting 'em to understand what the mission is,
what we're trying to do here.
And then they can start saying, "Well, how can I help?"
So that's the, "Ask what next" box.
Now the third box is better than "Ask what next."
This is where they actually suggest things.
So they say, "Right, I've done that.
Shall I do this next?"
You know, "I've noticed there's a cupboard
that needs sorting out.
Would you like me to get in there and do that for you?"
You know, "I've noticed that we've got lots of mistakes
on the database, shall I go through and tidy it up for you?"
Now that's great, isn't it?
Have people who are motivated enough
to actually suggest ideas.
So they go from "Ask what next" to "Suggest."
Now the suggest box is also called "Check before acting,"
because when they come to you with a suggestion,
they have to check
before they redo the database or sort the cupboard out.
So they're still quite controlled.
They may say,
"I think we need to work overtime at the weekend.
Is that okay?"
Or, "I need to get some guys in
at the weekend to fix that machine.
Can I do that?"
So that's the, "Suggest, but check before acting" box.
Now the next box above that, the fourth
of the five boxes is where they can just do it
but report afterwards.
Wouldn't it be great if they could just sort the stuff
out at the weekend and then on Monday they could say to you,
"By the way, we came in and fixed some things.
By the way, I've sorted out the database for you."
Now, clearly they've gotta be quite competent
and you've gotta be able to trust them if you're
gonna let them just do things.
But reporting afterwards isn't too risky.
They can only go wrong by one weekend or one job
'cause you can say to them next time,
"Leave that till Monday," 'cause it didn't have to
be done at the weekend, did it?
So there's not a huge risk if you get 'em to
report afterwards every time.
Now if they report afterwards and it's fine every time,
you can promote 'em to the top box, which is "Free to act."
And this is where they don't have to tell you every time.
They just get on with it.
And that's really the best box
for them because they get job satisfaction
and it's also the best box for you
because it's the most time effective.
But as always, our old friend control comes
into this because you are having to let go
of a certain amount of control.
And there are bosses who like to keep people
down at the bottom 'cause control.
"Don't do anything without me telling you first."
But the first three boxes, you've all got plenty of control.
I mean, even if they're coming to you with suggestions,
you can still say, "No, I don't want you to do that."
So at least move them up to the third box.
But ideally move them right up to the top one.
Let go of some control because it's better for them.
Now there are some people who wanna be down
at the bottom, wait until told.
I don't really understand why someone would want
to be like that.
I think they must be damaged if they just sit there going,
"Well, you tell me what you want."
And it seems to me that anybody who's any good is
not gonna want to just sit there.
I know it's safe and they get an easy life
but surely if they care about their work,
if they wanna do something worth doing,
they ought to want to be higher up
coming to you with suggestions.
So I think in the dream world, we would be at the top
and the boss would trust you to get on with it
and you would just get on with it.
So that's the "Freedom Ladder."
I think it's a really interesting idea.
And you might wanna ask, "Where are the people who work
for you and can you move them up?"
And of course it's a bit like situational leadership
because it's not the whole person who moves up.
It's every part of the job, all the things that they do.
Could each thing that they do
be moved up one level, perhaps?
You know, working weekends,
that decision of, "Should we come in or not?"
Maybe that could be moved from "Suggest"
to "Report afterwards,"
and maybe some other things can be moved up
from "Report afterwards" to "Free to act."
So think about the people you've got and think,
"Can you move them higher up the ladder?"
But also think about yourself.
Would you like to be higher up the ladder?
Could you move up the ladder
for the various parts of your job?
And could you persuade your boss to let you
go further up the ladder?
And of course, the way to do that is to talk about time.
You could say to the boss, "Look, rather than come
to you before the weekend every time with a big list,
why don't I just do it?
I'll give you a list on Monday morning.
It'll just save you a lot of time and hassle."
And then after a while you can say,
"Instead of bringing you a list every Monday
why don't I just send you a monthly report?
Well, why don't you just give me a budget
and I'll make sure I don't overspend.
And then you don't have to worry about it.
I'll just sort it for you."
So you can sell it to the boss because it saves them time
and it also gives you more freedom.
The objective is for everyone to be
at the top of the "Freedom Ladder."

--- Document: The Freedom Ladder ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- How To Decide Your Level Of Grip ---

-: Now when I was describing the freedom ladder just now,
I was talking about how you can get people
to report afterwards to tell you what they've done.
Or you can get them to check before they do things.
And this is really the concept of grip.
And when you delegate anything,
you need to decide how much grip you need to keep.
So the loosest level of grip of all is "Just go for it.
"And if there's a problem, come and see me."
That's empowerment.
Or what you could do is you could say,
"When you've done the next part of the project,
"come and let me know."
So they could just report when they've done each bit.
That's sometimes called management by exception
where they only come to you if there's a problem.
Now tightening the grip slightly you could say,
"Once a month come and see me."
Or, "Once a week come and see me."
And then you can tighten it even more.
You could decide to say,
"Every day come and see me
"and tell me how you're getting on."
You could say,
"This is a really difficult, really important project.
"I want to keep a bit of an eye on it. "You are doing it.
"You can do it however you like, so this is delegation,
"but I want you to come and see me every morning
"and just give me an update."
So it is delegation, but you've got a really tight grip.
so you can decide the level of grip.
I think quite a clever way to keep a tight grip
is to do it at your weekly meeting.
So each person could just report on how they're getting on
with their various projects. As you go around the room,
"Dave, how are you getting on with that job?
"Fred, how are you getting on with that job?"
And then you can keep a grip of everything once a week.
Another way to keep a grip
is to make them keep some chart on the wall of say,
number of sales visits or amount of scrap that's been made.
And then whenever you want to have a look
at what's going on, you could just go and look at the chart.
You could look at it every day
or every month whenever you want.
So that allows you to keep a tight grip.
And of course the chart doesn't have to be on the wall.
It could be online, it could be in the cloud,
so that you can look at it whenever you want.
So you need to decide what your grip strategy is.
Now there are two types of very tight grip
which a friend of mine does.
He calls it drilling down.
They're a bit unpleasant.
But if you've got somebody
who's not doing a very good job, who's underperforming,
you might want to keep a really tight grip.
And the two options, one of them is to say,
"Can I see your master list of all the jobs you've got on?
"Show me your list of everything you've got to do."
Now if they say, "I haven't got one,"
it's a bit like the monkey.
You can say, "Well, how long will it take? A day?
"Okay, well come back and see me tomorrow
"with your master list 'cause I wanna see it."
And once you can see their master list,
you can check that they're doing the things
that you want them to do.
You're still delegating, they're still doing them,
but you are looking at a big list.
And you can also get it in priority order.
So you can say, "Can you just put them into order for me?
"How long will it take? A day?
"Okay, come back tomorrow with your list in priority order.
"I wanna know what order you're gonna do these."
And then if you want, you can interfere and you can say
"Well actually I want that one sooner.
"And that one can wait."
So you can just make sure that they know
what they're meant to be doing
and they're doing 'em in the right order.
That's one way to really drill down and have a tight grip.
The tightest grip of all
is to have a look at their daily list.
So you could say to them,
"What are you planning to do today?"
Now you could do this
while you're doing management by walking about.
And you can just say, "Oh hi, Fred, how are you doing?
"What have you got on today?"
And just have a look at their list.
And if he's not doing something that you want
you can say, "Hang on, Dave,
"you haven't got so and so on there, I want that."
And you can also say, "So why are you doing that?"
You know, "Is that one urgent?"
So you can just question their list.
So you've delegated,
they may be empowered to get on with it or whatever,
but you are just doing a little bit of monitoring
'cause you wanna see their list every day.
And of course you don't have to check it every day
but just every now and then, just see what they've got on.
And if their list is just all over the place
then you can start to think,
"Hmm, maybe I need to keep a tighter control of this guy.
"Maybe I need to do a bit more sharing or consulting
"rather than delegating."
Or on the freedom ladder,
maybe I need to get him to check with me
before he does anything
because he doesn't seem to have an idea
of what he's meant to be doing.
So drill down by having a look
at the master list or the daily list,
and then you've really got tight control.

--- Management Style Options for Planning and Doing ---

-: Now this section here,
this next section may sound a bit theoretical,
a bit academic, but it is actually very practical
and it's worth bearing with it.
When I first saw Tannenbaum and Schmidt's theory,
Tell, sell, consult, et cetera,
and then when I saw the Freedom Ladder,
I thought they were quite similar in a way,
'cause the person down the bottom wants tell
or is asking for tell, and the person at the top
who's free to act, that's much more
a delegating empowerment thing.
And at first I thought the difference,
the only difference between them really
was that Tannenbaum and Schmidt is what the leader does,
whereas the freedom ladder is what the subordinate,
the team member, the person does.
So they wait until told or whatever.
But I've realized that actually,
there's more to it than that,
because in the middle, they're different.
It's only the ends where they're similar.
And what I've realized is that one of them
really applies to planning and the other one
applies to doing.
So planning is where you want to use Tannenbaum and Schmidt.
So when you're planning how you're gonna do a new job,
you need to decide, are you just gonna tell them?
Are you gonna involve them in it?
You know, are you gonna consult,
are you gonna share, or are you just gonna delegate
and they can do it how they like?
And then when you do the doing,
the amount of control you have,
that's where the Freedom Ladder comes in.
So when they're doing the job,
you've gotta decide whether
they have to check first before they do things
or whether they're free to act or whatever.
So you need to decide where you're gonna be
on the two sliding scales for the planning and the doing.
So for example, you might have
very tight control on the planning.
In fact, you might just tell them.
But then when they do it,
you might give them lots of freedom
and they can just go ahead and do it
and they hardly have to report at all.
Or the reverse, you might delegate the planning
and they can pretty much plan however they want to do it,
but then when they do it, they have to tell you
about every step or at least check before they do each step.
And there's a certain logic to that.
So on this chart I'm showing you now on the screen,
you can see that they might be top right
or they might be bottom left.
You might be a complete control freak and be top left,
but I think that's gonna be quite time-consuming
for you and not much fun for them.
So I would urge you at least to give them some freedom
either on the planning, which would be a bottom left,
or on the doing, which would be top right.
And the ultimate, of course would be bottom right,
where you let them plan it and do it.
And I suppose the game really is to look
at each person who you've got who's doing stuff
and think, "Can I move them a bit further to the right
and can I move them a bit down on this chart,
and can I therefore keep trying
to empower them more and more?"
So this chart allows you to plan any job
that you've got and you can then think about
what level of freedom are you gonna give them
on the planning and then the doing.
So it's really a a chart of management style options
for planning and for doing.

--- Document: Visual Plan to Decide The Management Options for Planning and Doing ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- What To Do Daily, Weekly, Monthly and Yearly To Stay Ahead of The Game ---

-: So we're nearing the end of this course.
It's been fairly epic, actually.
I think I've covered a lot of stuff.
I hope you've got some useful nuggets out of it.
And I want to bring it together by saying what would I have
as the top things that a boss should do every day,
every week, every month, and every year?
So let's have a look at a list,
and here it is on the screen now.
So you can see that for the daily options,
there are really only three things
that I think a leader should do.
The first thing is he or she
should definitely do management by walking about,
for probably an hour a day, just checking everybody's happy.
I think that's really important.
They should also spend half an hour, I think,
thinking every day.
I've called this getting ahead of the game time,
and it could be investigating a problem or whatever,
but I think half an hour of thinking time
is really important.
You know, thinking about the vision,
or can I improve the systems, or how are my people doing?
And the third thing is you should have a jobs to do list
at the end of every day.
That's a time management thing, really,
but every boss has gotta be organized.
You can't organize other people
unless you organize yourself,
so a jobs to do list every day.
That's the only things you gotta do every day.
Now, weekly, I've got four things you need to do,
and the first one is to thank everyone who works for you.
Now, we've talked about that before
with the management potato, et cetera.
It's really important to thank people,
and I think approximately weekly, everybody one-to-one
for something definite that they've done,
something that you can define that they've done.
It's gotta be a real thing, not just thanks for being great.
So that means you need to know what they're doing.
Oh, that's a bit of a drag,
but on the other hand, you should know.
Secondly, team meeting.
Half an hour every week,
you've gotta have a meeting with your team.
Thirdly, some coaching, we talked about that.
Very important to coach somebody every week,
teach something to somebody every week.
And fourth, planning your time.
So you've got a master list of the big things
you need to do once a week.
Probably Friday afternoon,
you should look at your master list
and move some of those things
across into your diary for the coming week
so that you start to nibble into those projects.
Those are the four things you've gotta do every week.
Now, monthly, I've only got three.
One of them, the first one is to review how are people doing
compared to the appraisal goals.
This means you'll need to have a little folder
with each person's appraisal in
so that you can immediately flick to what are the things
that they're supposed to be getting better at this year?
You don't wanna have a surprise at the end of the year
when you do an appraisal,
and you say, "Oh by the way, have you improved on that?
Oh, you haven't.
That's not very good."
So ideally, you would kind of nag them every month and say,
"So how are you getting on
with your being more customer-friendly project
this year, Dave?
Have you been good to customers this month?" or whatever.
So you need to have that list
and go through it with each person every month.
Secondly, project management.
I think you'll probably have a monthly meeting
to look at most of your projects.
How's the Gantt chart getting on, et cetera?
So I think checking on your projects
should be a monthly thing.
And finally, something I mentioned earlier in this course,
a motivation review.
Just have a little think
about the people who you've got working for you
and just ask the question for each person,
are they motivated?
Have they got challenges?
Have they got ownership?
Are they learning?
Do they need coaching?
And just go through that with each person in your mind.
You can even do it while you're driving to work
or sitting on the toilet or whatever,
or in a very boring meeting, perhaps.
But you absolutely should do that review once a month.
And then finally, yearly,
I've got a whole load of things you've got to do,
but the good news is you've only gotta do them once a year,
so that's good.
The first one is an appraisal.
We've talked about that.
You must do an appraisal with everybody every year.
Secondly, oh, by the way, you can delegate appraisals.
So you just do them with your direct reports
and your direct reports do their appraisals,
but make sure everybody's doing all their appraisals.
Secondly, ask the people who work for you,
"How can I be a better boss?"
Now, you could do this at the appraisal.
Of course, they won't tell you.
But what you can do is you can say,
"I think I'm a reasonable boss,
but is there anything I could improve on a little bit?"
And if they say,
"Well, you could maybe involve me a bit more
in some of your decisions,"
then that's a sure sign
that you're rubbish at involving them in decisions.
So I think that's a really good way
to try to pull out of them,
"You know, how could I improve at all as a boss?"
Next, address the troops as one large group.
I mentioned this.
Once a year, you should talk to everybody about the past,
you know, how has the year gone, but also the future.
What are the plans for the coming year?
Fourth, a little bit of back to the floor.
We talked about that earlier.
Between a day and a week of back to the floor
is something you should do once a year.
Fourth, review your personal goals and your life quality.
So are you happy?
Do you wanna do this job?
I think once a year it's a good idea just to take stock
and think, "Is this job still making me happy?
Am I bored?
Should I apply for something else?" whatever.
And then go on a course.
I think once a year, you should go on a training course
and just learn something new.
I'm sure you're gonna agree with that,
'cause you're the sort of person who's actually paid
for their own learning to do this course,
so that's brilliant.
But a lot of people never do any training,
and that's just such a waste.
I mean, you've gotta work on yourself, haven't you,
sharpen your saw, as it were.
And finally, read a book on a subject of your choice.
If you're a salesperson,
why would you not read a book on selling?
You know, just one book a year is all I ask.
You absolutely should study whatever it is
that you earn your living doing.
So read a book.
Obviously I've got a few interesting books
available on Kindle, I'm just saying,
but one way or another, I think that's important.
So there we are.
That's my list of daily, weekly, monthly, and yearly things
that you should do as a boss,
and if there's anything on there you're not doing,
maybe you could start doing that today.

--- Document: List of Regular Management Tasks ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Your Pledge To Improve: The Management Charter ---

-: Now a recurring theme throughout this course,
I think, has been bosses who know they should be doing it,
but then they just don't.
And we're all a bit like that, and it's easy to slip back
into your old way of doing things.
So I had an idea, I thought wouldn't it be interesting
if you could have a thing on the wall
that kind of reminded you?
So I've made for you a management charter
that you can download, print out, stick it on your wall.
And it basically says, "I promise that from now on,
I'm gonna try and be a really good boss
and I'm gonna do the following eight things,
and here's a list of them."
And anybody who works for you is gonna see this,
so you're gonna have to do those things.
You're gonna have to try to involve them
and you're gonna have to receive problems
with a positive attitude and all those things.
So I really hope that you do decide to print this out
and stick it on the wall and make a promise,
a declaration to your team
that you're gonna try and be a good boss.
Now, being a good boss isn't something you secretly
do to people without them knowing.
They can help you to be a good boss.
And you can say, "I do find it difficult
to involve you in decisions sometimes,
so please do feel free to remind me
if I've temporarily lapsed.
if I've forgotten to involve you, do tell me."
So I think it's brilliant to put the charter up
and say to your people, "I'm gonna try and do these things,
help me to do it."
And that's why I've put at the bottom,
"I will welcome reminders that I've temporarily slipped
in a constructive spirit."
And you'll also notice in the tiny writing at the bottom,
any other managers who want a copy,
would they like to copy it?
'cause wouldn't it be great
if everybody where you work had those up?
And that's my dream, that one day I'll go into a company
and all the managers will have these charters on the wall
saying, "We are determined to be good managers."
And I think why not admit that it's difficult?
Why not admit that you need to be reminded occasionally?
So that's my management charter.
The question is, have you got the guts
to stick it on the wall and really do it?
I hope you have.

--- Document: Your Management Charter ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Thank You And What Will You Do Differently? ---

-: So well done, you've completed my epic leadership course.
I hope you've enjoyed it,
I hope you've also managed to pick out
some useful little nuggets and things that you can do.
And I also hope it's gonna give you more confidence
being a manager or a leader now that you've got some
structure behind what you're doing, some of the theories
help you to understand what it's all about.
It's not that difficult really,
but it's nice to know that you're doing the right thing
and to get a few new ideas of things that you can do.
So I hope you've enjoyed it.
Remember, by the way, that to know and not do
is to not know.
So you do actually have to put it into practice.
And one of the things you might wanna think about now is,
what am I actually gonna do differently
as a result of this course?
Please do leave some stars, and ideally,
an actual review as well,
that would really help me if you could take the time.
If you'd like to keep in touch via LinkedIn,
I'd be delighted.
Just look for Chris Croft and find me on LinkedIn.
And finally, why not get my free tip
of the month that I send out.
I email these tips out to 13,000 people,
and if you'd like to be added to my list,
then please do go to the webpage and sign up.
The place to sign up for it is Free Management Tips,
so it's www.free-management-tips.co.uk.
So it's free-management-tips.co.uk, with hyphens.
If you just go there, put your email address in,
they'll arrive free forever, and they'll never repeat.
Of course you can unsubscribe if they don't make you happy,
but I know you will like them.
So there we are, that's it.
I do hope to see you again on another one of my courses.
Bye for now.

--- How To Get Your Certificate ---

-: You can email in
with any questions you have about the course,
but by far the commonest question I get is,
"Why can't I get my certificate?"
So, the good news is,
you do get a certificate with this course,
a certificate of completion,
which is really useful,
you can show it to your boss
or when you go for a job interview, you've got that,
it's got your name on, it looks great.
So that's good news.
But sometimes for some reason,
it won't give you your certificate.
So, the first thing to do is to just make sure
you have completed 100% of the course.
You should be able to see your percentage complete
on the screen somewhere.
But if it says 99% complete and you're thinking,
"But I've watched all the videos,"
there's obviously something you haven't completed.
So, it could be that you just
haven't downloaded a particular downloadable file.
It could be that there's a quiz that you haven't finished
or you didn't get correct.
But it could also be that there's a video
that you just watched
all the way up to the last few seconds,
and you didn't quite finish the video.
So if you search, you should find,
it should show you what the remaining thing is
that you haven't done.
But sometimes there's just a glitch,
and you've watched a video,
but it doesn't think you've watched it
or something like that.
So if it is just a glitch,
the answer is to email support@udemy.com,
and just say to them,
"I've watched the course, I can't get my certificate,"
and they will then send it to you.
Okay, so last resort, email support@udemy.com,
and you will get the certificate
that you quite rightly deserve.

--- Three Types of Leadership Theory ---

-: I don't really want to make this video,
but I think I ought to because you probably do need to know
that there are three types of leadership model.
Now I think this is all a bit academic.
I'm not sure if I entirely agree with it,
but I'm gonna tell you about it,
and you can make up your own mind.
So originally, when people were thinking about leadership,
there was a thing called the trait model of leadership.
Pretentious people call it the trait theory of leadership,
but I call them traits.
So the idea was that leaders had traits.
So if you look at successful leaders of history,
maybe they're intelligent, maybe they're aggressive,
maybe they are good listeners, maybe they have charisma.
And in fact, you could make a list
of the great leaders of history,
and you could write down
all the personality traits that they had,
and you could try to work out what they have in common.
But what you'll find
as you go from Genghis Khan to Gandhi
is that they're really different,
and there are loads
of different leadership styles you can have.
So in the end, the trait theory
of leadership has been found to be futile.
The other problem with the trait theory
is suppose you could come up
with a list of all the traits,
even the self contradicting ones like decisive
but also a good listener, et cetera.
If you could do that,
how could a person acquire those traits?
Because we are what we are.
And I think it would be very depressing to be told, well,
you've got some of the traits of a leader
but not all of them.
And a training person like me
would have nothing to do
because I wouldn't be able to teach you how to be a leader.
I'd just look at you and say, sorry,
you're only 60% a leader.
So you'll have to make do with that.
And I think that would be very depressing.
And I also think it's not true.
I think you can learn to be a leader.
So I personally subscribe to the second
of the three leadership theories
which is transactional leadership.
So the idea is that it's not what you are as a person,
it's what you do.
And there are certain things that leaders do.
Now, this was, I don't know whether it was invented
or whether it was popularized by John Adair.
And John Adair was studying the best leaders in the army,
and he was trying to work out
what the traits were of the best leaders.
And he realized that there was nothing
in common between them in terms of their personality,
it was what they do.
So he came out with some theories which said
that leaders focus on the task,
but they also look after the people
and they also look after the team.
So the individuals and the team.
And also, that leaders are involved
with setting objectives, with planning, with briefing,
with monitoring and controlling the activities
that go on, and with reviewing.
So he came up with a list of areas
where transactions happen,
and then people like Tannenbaum and Schmidt came along
and said that some of these transactions
could have different types, different levels of control.
So you might tell people what to do
or you might share the decisions with them
or you might have a plan,
but you consult with them to say,
what do you think of my plan?
Or you might delegate.
These are all ways of transacting with people.
So transactional leadership
is full of theories about options and different ways
you can transact with your team.
Even things like having a weekly meeting with your team.
It's a great idea.
So I love all that.
And it's really just a question
of which transactional theory you are going to use
or which combination, which theories you like best.
They're all covered on this course.
And that's far better than looking at the traits.
But there's a third type of leadership theory
which has come along recently
which I don't really approve of
which is transformational leadership.
Now the idea of transformational leadership
is that the leader doesn't just do things to the team.
They somehow inspire the team to be great.
The leader is just a catalyst
who somehow makes the team great.
And I agree, I think great leaders do make their team great
because you can't do it all yourself.
And with a really great leader,
the team says we did it ourselves.
So that's all fine.
But my problem with transformational leadership,
and correct me if I'm wrong, Google this later,
have a look and see if you think I'm right or not.
I think it's a little bit "Emperor's New Clothes"
because what do transformational leaders actually do?
I want to be a transactional leader.
I've come into the office, what do I do?
And the answer is you communicate with your team.
You know, you get them to buy
into the vision by explaining the vision to them.
You walk around and meet people, you know,
leaders eat last and all these things
from Simon Sinek and things.
These are transactions.
The idea of listening to your team, having team meetings,
that's all transactional leadership anyway.
Everything you do is a transaction.
So what do transformational leaders do?
It's basically, I think it's just another fancy word
for transactional leadership.
So I'm very much in favor of trait becoming transaction.
I personally don't subscribe to this.
I think there's always pressure
to come out with a sexy, new theory of leadership.
And I think this is just another name
for transactional leadership.
And transactional leadership is where it's at.

--- The Do-Get-Feel Cycle For Taking Control of Your Work Life ---

-: I'm fascinated by the way some people love their work
and other people hate their work,
and yet it's the same job with the same boss.
But some people's attitude just seems broken, really.
And what you might call a bad employee,
I think is probably a victim of bad management in the past,
and something has been broken inside them.
So now they don't care about their work.
They don't care about customers.
They've just got a negative, defensive attitude.
Bit like if you go around a dogs' home,
and you're thinking of adopting a dog,
some of them will come running up to the front of their cage
and lick your hand.
Others will cower in the back and perhaps even growl at you.
Something's happened to that dog,
and unfortunately, the result is
that that dog probably won't be adopted,
so that dog is now stuck
in a negative loop it can never get out of,
whereas the friendly dog will get adopted.
And that's really sad, and it's really unfair
on the dog that has had bad treatment in the past.
And I think people, clearly more sophisticated than dogs.
But we have that same thing that happens to us,
and I think of it as the Do Get Feel Loop.
(marker tapping and scratching)
So what happens is that if you do certain things,
maybe you work really well or maybe you work badly,
you get reactions from that.
So from your boss, if you do a really good job,
you'll get thanked and encouraged
and promoted and given more interesting work.
And if you do bad work or you're lazy
or you just avoid work or you've got a negative attitude,
then you'll get grief from your boss.
And then what you get clearly will affect how you feel,
and you'll either end up enjoying your work
and feeling proud of it and feeling good,
or you'll start to hate your work, you'll hate your boss,
and you'll just be really unhappy.
And then how you feel affects what you do.
So if you're unhappy with your work,
then you're gonna carry on avoiding getting any more work.
And if you are loving your work,
then you're probably gonna do a better job.
So some people are in a positive loop,
and some people are in a negative loop.
And I say to people, "You can break this loop."
So you can choose what you do.
You can't always choose what you get from your boss.
It's worth, if you can, try to influence your boss
but you can't do a lot about what your boss does.
But you can maybe control
how you feel about what your boss does.
So if your boss isn't a great boss,
you could try to rise above that
and say, "Well, I'm gonna ignore the boss.
I'm still gonna do a good job."
So you can break this loop in a couple of places, I think.
And even the loop bit between Feel and Do,
you've got a choice because if you feel a bit fed up,
you can still decide
you're gonna do the best job you can do,
and you can break that loop.
But this course is about management and leadership.
So I want to say to you that, as a boss,
you have a huge effect on this.
And it's actually quite tough
to expect your employees to break this loop.
You should be breaking this loop.
So if somebody does a bad job or is a broken person
because of bad management they've had in the past,
you can change what you get from them.
And instead of giving them the red, the bad,
the aggressive treatment,
you could perhaps choose to give them the green
and say to them,
"Look, don't worry about what happened on that previous job,
but I think you can do better than that,
and I want to help you.
You know, are you up for having another go at it?"
And I think by treating them well
so they get not what they're expecting,
you might be able to change them onto the green track
and get them to feel good and do a better job.
And there's one other way you might want to think
about this is that
rather than thinking this is what they do, what they get,
what they feel, and you can affect that,
this could also be how you feel and what you do.
So it could be that if you are annoyed by somebody,
that it's very easy just to have a go at them.
That's what we do.
But you're a boss,
and you have to rise above all that stuff now.
So if you are not happy about what somebody's done,
you've got a choice about what you do,
and you could take the green route instead,
and you could take the understanding sympathetic route
rather than the aggressive, critical route.
You've got control over this circle.
And if you can get all your people
to be going round the green circle
where they're doing a great job,
they're getting thanks from you, they're loving it,
they're doing more work,
if you can get them onto the green circle,
then that's what a really great team is.

--- Ownership: An Important Motivator ---

-: I want to talk about ownership,
because I would like to suggest to you
that every task should be owned by someone.
So who looks after watering the plant in reception?
Somebody has gotta have ownership.
If it's shared between people, it won't get done.
And if nobody has ownership, it won't get done.
So every task has to be owned by someone.
And also, every person should have ownership of something,
because it feels good to own things.
Even if it's the smallest thing,
like when my daughter was at school,
and she was about six,
she was put in charge of the tin of paperclips. (laughing)
And she used to look after this tin,
"I'm in charge of,"
she became quite a sort of dictator of the paperclips,
"You can't have a paperclip unless I check,
and I wanna make sure it's given back
at the end of the class."
But she loved having ownership of that one little thing.
So it's quite important for us to feel we've got ownership.
Salespeople have a territory, for example,
and it's theirs and they own that territory.
Much more motivational
than having to share your territory with somebody else.
So if you're gonna draw that in picture form,
you could say, let's suppose you have four jobs here,
and let's suppose there are four people.
Doesn't have to be the same number, of course,
but suppose you've got four people here.
Ideally, this job would be owned by this person.
Now, a person can own two jobs,
that's absolutely fine.
In fact, they probably will have to,
there probably are more jobs than people.
But what you can't have is a job that's owned by two people,
because then there's gonna be a problem,
because they're not gonna know who's responsible
and they're gonna assume the other person's doing it
or they're gonna disagree about how it's done,
and that's gonna be a problem.
So that's a problem.
Another problem is where a job's not owned by anybody.
And another problem is where a person doesn't own any job.
So a person can own more than one,
a job can only have one owner.
But it's really important to think about
everything in your area,
every job within your control,
and just think, "Who owns this one?
Who owns this one?
This one hasn't got an owner,
that's a problem."
And then think about every person in your area of control,
and think, "What have they got that they own?
This person's got a couple of things, that's great.
Maybe somebody else has got one thing, that's great.
This person hasn't got anything, that's a problem."
So ownership, it's really worth
just putting a little bit of time aside
to think about that.

--- How To Motivate The Four Different Types of People ---

-: Different types of people are motivated
by different things.
I think that's obvious.
But is there a really good theory about this?
Because if you look at the biggest theory on motivation,
which is Maslow's hierarchy, Maslow said
that initially we have physical needs,
we have to have enough food to eat, et cetera.
Then we get into security and he said
that's a basic need we have.
Everybody has the need for security.
If you think you don't need security,
that's because you've already got it.
So you're not thinking about security.
It's a bit like saying, "Well, I'm not interested in food."
Well, you're not if you're well fed.
But when you're hungry, it becomes really important.
So security.
And then the next thing was social needs.
Again, if you think you've got low social needs,
that's probably because they're already satisfied.
And he said
that social needs were not as fundamental as security.
So given the choice between the two,
you would choose security over social.
And then after that it was status or ego needs.
We want to be important, so we wanna be part of a team,
but it'd also be nice to be noticed
as being important or having our own special area.
And then he had self-actualization
which is a bit like self-fulfillment.
It's doing interesting work
and being the best you that you can be.
So Maslow said that everybody has these,
but I would like to suggest that although we all have them,
I think we have them in different amounts
depending on our personality.
So I'd like to link them to the theory of personality
which I come back to quite often
which is the four types of people.
So, very quick recap of that
and then we'll see how they link.
Here we've got the analytical type people.
So these are the quiet people who are also logical.
Then we've got the controllers, sometimes called red people.
The analyticals are sometimes known as blues, got the red,
which is the controllers.
So they're also logical, but they're a bit more outgoing
than the analyticals.
There we've got the other outgoing person sometimes
called yellow, but you can't see a yellow pen.
So I'm gonna use the black one.
Also outgoing, but they're more people based
and these are the enthusiasts.
And then finally we've got the other people based people,
the more emotional decision makers, but they're quieter.
And these are the amiables.
And you can imagine how they would be motivated
by different things.
And I would like to suggest
that this maps onto this really well
because the amiables are mainly interested
in social things.
They wanna be part of a team,
they want to be loved, et cetera.
But they also want to feel secure and safe.
And those are the most important things.
They're not so bothered about status, for example,
the amiables.
And then when you move on up to social and status,
you've got the enthusiasts.
So the enthusiasts, they want to be in a bunch of people,
but to show off a bit and to be important,
they want to have that parking space in front
of the building or that lovely car or whatever it is.
So status and social,
I think is what the enthusiasts are interested in.
They're not so bothered about security, for example,
as the amiables.
Then the next level up, you've got the controllers.
So the controllers really are interested
in self-actualization.
They just want to get the job done.
But in order to get it done,
they need a certain amount of status.
So they wanna be able to just go in and say,
"Do you know who I am?
Come on, look, I'm the boss.
Just do it."
They want everyone to go,
"Yes sir, certainly sir" when they arrive.
So the controllers are about getting things done
and making a difference, but they're quite statusy
in the way that they do that.
And that finally leaves the analyticals.
Now I would say the analyticals, right at the top here,
they are just interested in interesting work.
They're not interested in status
and not that interested in the social side of things.
They just wanna do interesting work.
But they are also interested in security.
Everybody has the same physical needs by the way.
So I'm just gonna ignore that level there.
But the analyticals,
they wrap right round security and self-actualization.
So they want to do interesting work,
but they know what the rules are within that.
So there's a system and they feel safe
within the structure where they can do interesting work.
So I think that's how they map on.
Now you could map them the other way
because you could say that the amiables
and the enthusiasts are interested in the social side
of things much more than the analyticals of the controllers.
We know that 'cause they're people based.
So that's easy.
Who's interested in security?
Well, it's gonna be the analyticals
and the amiables.
Controllers and enthusiasts are not bothered about security.
They're much more into just risks
and wadding in and having a go.
But these people, more cautious, more interested
in security.
And then over on this side, the controllers and enthusiasts,
they're more interested in status.
Enthusiasts, so their friends can admire them,
controllers, so they can make a difference.
I'm simplifying, but that's roughly it.
And then finally up here we've got the analyticals
and the controllers
and they are interested in self-actualization
because they're interested in making a difference.
Everybody wants to make a difference to an extent,
but these people are really driven
by making a difference in very different ways.
So this is like big picture,
let's just get in there and change some things.
This is much more
about making things correct and sorting things out
and making sure every detail is correct.
So I think Maslow maps onto the four types of people
and the four types of people map onto Maslow.

--- Keeping People Motivated In Order To Avoid The Banana of Boredom ---

-: I want to add something
to the classic situational leadership model,
and I want to add something called the banana of boredom.
I hope you like it and I hope you find it useful.
So in the situational leadership model,
we have these four boxes.
We've got competent and not competent.
We've got motivated and not motivated.
So you've got the new people here
who are motivated but not yet competent.
You've got the experienced,
basically the stars here, competent and motivated.
Down here you've got people who are competent
but they're not motivated
because they've got bored, being there too long.
Perhaps their qualities aren't being
fully used by the organization.
And then down here we've got the problem people
who are not motivated and also not competent.
Now the question is, which route do people go
through these boxes?
And in the book where this comes from originally,
which is called "Leadership and the One-Minute Manager,"
they say that you arrive in a job like this
and then you get depressed,
'cause it's harder than you thought.
So when you first arrive, you think it's gonna be great
and you're motivated, everything's new,
but you quite quickly become demotivated
because the job's too difficult and you can't do it yet.
Then you become competent, you learn the job,
and once you've learned the job, that motivates you.
So they say that to get from the start to the finish,
you have to go through the U-bend of despair.
They actually draw it the other way up in the book.
So they have a sort of hump shape like that.
But I've always thought it's more logical
to have it this shape.
Anyway, at first I thought that made sense,
but then I thought "Hang on a minute, that's not what I do.
I've never been through the U-bend of despair."
Whenever I've done a job, what I tend to do is
I arrive in the job motivated to do it, but not competent.
And then I learn the job, I become competent gradually.
It might take a few years,
but I get more competent over time.
And I move across into this box here
where I feel like a star for a short period,
and then I get bored.
That's what happens to me.
And once I get bored, there's only two choices.
Either I leave and I go to a new job
where I'm once again motivated but not competent,
or I get promoted and I go up the level
into a new job where I'm motivated again
and I'm not yet competent.
So what I've been doing my whole life
is going 'round the banana of boredom like this.
And I'd be interested to know whether you feel
that you do the banana or whether you do the U-bend.
But I think most people do the banana.
When I ask people this on training courses,
they always say "Oh yes, it's the banana that I do."
So it's clearly in human nature that we are gonna get bored
and we have to do a certain amount of this,
but we don't want people to spend a third of their time
incompetent and a third of the time not motivated
and just this little bit of marvelousness up here.
Surely we can do better than that,
and the answer is we can using the mini banana of boredom,
which is up here.
So I would suggest that when people arrive,
we don't want them to become demotivated.
We wanna really make sure that we train them
as quickly as possible and get them across to here.
That's great. But then we want to keep them in this box.
It's very easy to neglect the people up here,
because those are the stars.
We spend all our time worrying
about these ones down here, what do we do about them?
But we mustn't neglect these people.
And what we do is as they start to get more competent
but a bit bored, 'cause the job gets a bit easy,
we just give them new little challenges within the job.
Just keep teaching them more things,
giving them slightly more difficult stuff,
giving them six out of 10 difficulty, then seven,
then eight, then nine out of 10 difficulty-type work.
So we keep giving them stuff where they're
a bit less competent, but of course they're more motivated,
'cause they like a challenge.
So we should keep them going 'round the mini banana
and not let them slide down the big banana
into here where there's a problem.
So that's the banana of boredom.
I hope you find it useful.

--- How to Get From "Tell" to "Delegate" ---

-: I want to take situational leadership
one step further now,
and I've been saying
that I think most people do the Banana of Boredom.
They don't do the U-Bend of Despair.
But there's a problem with this,
which is that the U-Bend fits perfectly
with Tannenbaum and Schmidt.
Now you may remember that with Tannenbaum and Schmidt,
we start with the manager
or the leader having all the control,
and they gradually let go of control
as they delegate and they pass the work towards their team.
So initially, when somebody's new, you're tell mode.
You pretty much have to tell them what to do.
In the official model,
they call this Directive Leadership, but it's really tell.
Then you start to involve them a bit more,
and as you move into the coaching style of leadership,
you share information, and you share decisions.
And then when somebody is competent,
you can then consult them.
You can actually ask them for their opinion.
And then finally, you can move up into delegating
and perhaps even empowering them.
The difference being that with delegating,
you give them work, but you monitor.
Empowerment, you give them work to do,
you don't even monitor because you trust them.
So there's a sort of sliding scale here,
and it kind of fits.
It's not entirely spot on around here,
but it kind of fits with the U-Bend.
It doesn't fit very well with my Banana model
because as you move across my Banana,
you have brand new people
who you have to tell them how to do the job,
and then suddenly, we're over here,
and we're delegating.
And those are opposite ends
of the Tannenbaum and Schmidt scale.
So how do we get from tell to delegate?
And I think the answer is easy
because I think what people often haven't really thought
about is that tell and delegate are actually quite similar.
So imagine I said to you, "Sell more to Scotland."
Right, am I telling, or am I delegating?
It sounds like I'm telling, but then I'm giving you the job,
"Just go and sell more to Scotland."
What I'm actually doing, by the way, is I'm delegating,
but I'm delegating badly in order to confuse you.
And the difference
between tell and delegate is that with tell,
you say what you want, and you say how to do it,
but with delegating, you just say what you want,
and you leave them to decide how to do it.
So in my Scotland example,
I just said, "Sell more to Scotland."
So that was delegating.
If it'd have been telling
I would've said, "Sell more to Scotland.
You're obviously gonna have to open offices
in Glasgow and Edinburgh.
You'll need a new webpage.
You need to have tartan around the edge
and a thistle in the corner.
Then you'll probably need to have a manager
who looks after both those offices with staff.
You'll need to buy a photocopier."
Bleh, that would've been tell.
I didn't do that.
I just said, "Sell more to Scotland."
So it was delegating, but it was bad delegating.
By the way, good delegating would've looked like this.
I would've said,
"I've got this really important job for you,
and you're the best person to do it.
I want you to sell more to Scotland,
and I've picked you
because you've worked in Scotland a little bit,
and I think you've got really good people skills."
So basically I'm bigging up the job,
and I'm bigging up the person as well.
"So you'd be perfect for this job.
I'm gonna give you a budget of 60 grand.
I want to meet once a month
where you can report on progress.
You can make any decisions you like
up to, say, five grand per decision.
Bigger than that, you need to check with me first."
So they know what the resources are.
They know what the constraints are.
They know what the reporting process is gonna be.
We're gonna meet once a month.
And at the end, I would say to them,
"So are you okay with that?
Do you feel you can do it?
Are you up for it?"
And I just wanna check that they're happy,
and this is their chance to say,
"Well, I dunno how to do X or Y,"
or "Yeah, let's just do this."
So with good delegating,
there's quite a few things you need to do
but the one thing you don't do
with delegating is you don't tell them how.
Even if I'm the expert on Scotland
or setting up new offices,
I mustn't tell you how
because by doing that, I'm basically saying,
"I don't trust you, and I don't think you are competent."
So I've gotta let you do it,
even though I might know more than you do.
But of course, quite often I think I know more than you do,
but actually, I don't.
And you're absolutely competent to do it.
You might do it a different way.
So I might be thinking, "Well, I wouldn't do it like that
but I've gotta just let go."
So the difference is how much you tell them how.
And the point is this could be a sliding scale.
So the first time I delegate to you,
well, the first time I give you a task, let's say,
I could say, "I want you to sell more to Scotland,
and you're gonna need to open offices
in Glasgow and Edinburgh.
You're gonna need the special website
You're gonna need to recruit staff."
So I tell you everything.
So that's kind of tell.
Suppose that goes really well.
Let's say, in a year's time, I say,
"Right now, we're gonna sell more to Wales,
and you'll probably need an office in Cardiff
and just the usual equipment
and people like you did last time."
So I tell you a bit less.
And then a year later, after that's gone really well,
I can say, "Right, now we're gonna open in Ireland.
Just do the usual. It's all yours."
So what I've done is I've gone from telling you loads,
and I've told you less and less and less as we go across.
So I think there is a way to go straight
from telling to towards delegating.
And I don't think you have to go down
through Sharing and Consulting and all this stuff down here.
I think you can just go across,
and you can just tell them a bit less each time
as you go across.
And I think of this as the Christmas Tree of Competence.
I'm sorry, but I do, and that's how I remember it.
So all you do with the people
who you're giving work to is you just think,
"What's the least information I can give them,
and they're still gonna be fine to do the job?"
And ideally, you reduce the information you give them
every time you give them a similar job.
The Christmas Tree of Competence.
