

=== Introduction ===


--- Introduction & Course Structure ---

Ooh.
This is a pretty big moment for me because I'm recording this lesson as I'm already done with all the
content.
Hey, my name is Andrew Parker, and I'd like to quickly, very quickly introduce you to the course
content and who I am.
You already now know my name, so why should you trust me as a designer and know that I will teach you
something?
My daily work consists of freelancing, preparing online content and publishing online material, mostly
videos.
The majority of my work is done with Microsoft, PowerPoint and Adobe after effects.
To reinforce what I am saying, I'm also running a YouTube channel with free and educational content.
I am also a freelancer at Fiverr.
I'm rated as a top rated seller, and I have already 3000 reviews, which is about 4000 completed jobs
for clients.
It's not the numbers that matter, but what matters is that I've worked with over a couple of thousand
clients, I've published a couple of hundred videos and I've created online courses.
All that made me realize what are the weak sides of students?
What are the strong sides of designers?
What could I teach?
What should I teach?
What people want to know and what makes their design and overall careers and lives better.
That's why I feel very confident going into this course, because this will be a PowerPoint masterclass.
I will not go over the most basic elements unless you told me so.
If you will have basic questions, I will of course answer them.
And I can even record a new section for you regarding PowerPoint specific basics.
But here in the course I've prepared, currently the set up looks like this.
The first four sections of content are there to prepare you to the work so you will search for photos
and icons.
You will learn some basics about PowerPoint.
Then I'll teach you advanced PowerPoint tricks.
Let me show you later what that is and how to animate in PowerPoint.
This will make you completely prepared for the bigger section, which is slides, design and then animations
of those slides.
We will start with the first slides and then we will continue in the next sections with the other slides.
Since this is a master class, I'm also explaining how to make videos with PowerPoint which will be
ready to publish to YouTube or how to create complete explainer videos from scratch and also how to
create PowerPoint templates.
What would be a master class?
Without telling you how to do this?
I've prepared three additional sections which I will fill out as the course progresses and as I come
up with new and fresh ideas.
Those three sections will be about slide design tips and tricks and animation product.
So the three essential things you would like to learn and know about how to make it PowerPoint.
The very last thing I would like to inform you about is how to download the resources.
The resources are available in the first section where we have download resources.
There will be one file or multiple files depending on how I set this up.
If you are watching the lesson, you can always click on the menu button, you can open the introduction
and all resources will be here.
All resources and shortcuts I mentioned are also available in the PDF I'm attaching, which is the Quest
and Shortcut List.
You will have all the resources and if you would like to track your progression in the course, you
can, for example, print this out and track what lessons you completed.
And there are small tasks to perform after each lesson.
This is also completely optional for those who would like to gamify the content a little bit and make
the course more enjoyable when taking it.
So this is when it comes to my introduction, and if you have any questions, please let me know and
I'm sure we will work something out.

--- DOWNLOAD RESOURCES ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Workflow of a real designer ===


--- Dig Into PowerPoint Right Away! ---

Hello and welcome.
In this hands on warm up lesson, I would like you to learn something in PowerPoint within the first
few minutes of the course, so let's get right onto it.
At first I would like to insert a picture into this design.
You can use your own picture or you can open the resources, the presentation files, and I'm attaching
also all the pictures I've used, so I'll use simply the first picture and let's do some photo manipulation.
Let's assume that I want to fill out the slide with this picture and I would like to change the color
of the sky.
Now, how would I go about this?
At first I would click on the picture.
Please go to the cropping options, click on crop, try to extend the crop area to the entire slide.
Now, you don't have to extend the picture because PowerPoint can do that for you.
Please click on the dropdown button and you should have fill and fit.
Please select fill boom and it will automatically fill the entire area with the picture we selected.
I will pick crop and now I'll show you a very cool trick.
I'll press insert shapes and I'll insert a rectangle shape.
We will later do this as well many times, but I would like to show you how to create those overlays.
Create a shape like that.
Once you have it, please click on Shape outline and select no outline because PowerPoint adds an outline
here around automatically.
Okay, now this blue color is pretty ugly, so please select it right click and open the format.
Shape options in the format shape options.
You need to select the fill and you need to go over the gradient fill.
Now you may think, why do we need a gradient?
Well, actually we don't need a gradient.
We need the transparency options because those are very amazing and you need to remember about them
when you work in PowerPoint at the beginning, we have four colors.
Please delete half of them because we only need two of those colors.
Select the last color and make it completely transparent.
Now you understand where I'm going.
With that, I will select the first color and I will select the color I would like the overlay to have.
So let's maybe go for something crazy like this.
Burgundy red.
This dark red.
I will select dark red.
Now you can see it's pretty crazy, but I can adjust how crazy it is.
But the most important thing is that I can adjust the transparency of this very color.
If I make the transparency a bit higher, the red color suddenly isn't as strong anymore and I can make
an overlay over the sky of this picture very quickly.
We created an overlay on this picture and we will definitely do this in this course because overlays
are one of my favorite things to do in PowerPoint.
And I could also call this photo manipulation.
PowerPoint will never come close to Photoshop or Adobe Lightroom when it comes to photo editing, but
the basic things like clicking on the picture, going to its format and clicking on the color gives
us access to at least a few color options like gray, scaling the image or selecting a few color overlays
for them.
So as you can see, if I would for example, select this, Yeah, this yellow kind of looks cool and
I would combine this with my overlay.
Look how cool of an effect I can achieve.
I can of course change that.
I can change the color, I can change the gradient.
I can change.
Sorry, I'm not precise.
Here.
Let me go back to the format shape another cool thing.
We can also adjust the brightness the brightness makes how warm the color is.
You can make this red color brighter or this red color darker.
So as you can see, we kind of have a few options and it's really fun to do those in PowerPoint.
We can adjust the gradient as we want.
We can do custom overlays like that, and with help of that we can become PowerPoint magicians.
This was a first introductory lesson.
I hope you did already learned something in PowerPoint, for example, like making those overlays or
cropping pictures immediately to a fill.
By the way, you can also crop two shapes like crop to a triangle and the picture would be a triangle.
But this all will come later.
I'll expand upon the knowledge we are gaining here.
That's completely enough.
When it comes to the first lesson, we need to prepare ourselves as professional designers do so we
will need to research some.
Images, some icons, some colors.
And later on, we will work on a real life presentation.


=== Basic but Important features ===


--- Gain inspiration ---

Hello there.
What a beautiful start into this course.
At first I'd like to go about a few things every designer should do, especially before a big project.
If you are aiming to do a high quality project, you would at least need a few minutes to look over
other projects.
What people design currently, what is trending to not copy them, but to inspire yourself for great
design in order to get good in PowerPoint.
PowerPoint can be used as any other design software.
And in my opinion, if you want to be a good designer, no matter which tool you use this time, you
will use PowerPoint.
This will be your tool.
But you also need to be aware about design.
I'll make here a game plan for you, which you can do step by step, exactly as I do here to gain quickly
inspiration and then we will head right into PowerPoint.
At first it depends.
If you are doing a business presentation or just a free project for yourself.
You can write, for example, business brochure and go to Pinterest.
I wrote business brochure, but you can also write post or flyer website presentation, design inspiration.
I've listed those texts here which I think are very relevant to everything.
And right off the bat I just wrote this here and I have my first two links.
I go into the link, for example, business brochure and I'm gaining inspiration now already I'm setting
myself for a color.
I think, Oh, this blue design looks really good.
What if I created something similar in PowerPoint just with a stronger blue or this red one?
Look at those brochures.
They look totally beautiful.
I really like the designs, the fonts, everything.
And as you can see, my normal game plan includes getting inspiration, selecting colors, images,
icons and fonts.
For the sake of this course, we will go over all of them.
Each of us will select a few of them, and then it will get into your workflow, your blood, and you
will aim for better designs.
And if I see those designs, my mission is to make a design which will be not worse than that.
Because right off the bat, as I look at those designs, I see they are clean, well-prepared.
Obviously, they are greatly presented here.
And I wanted to show you a few websites like that, the same type which you will use for your project.
You can write the same things on Behance.
You can simply click the search, the same thing goes for dribble and for another website.
So at Behance we have this is Adobe's website and people have their portfolios.
You'll need to click over a few things on those websites to soak those graphic designs a little bit
in.
Okay, we need to move forward.
And the very last thing I want to show you is slide.
Sure.
What is this last note first?
I'm sure you most likely already know it, but SlideShare is about sharing presentations, PDF, slides
and informations from companies, and you can even upload your designs here.
But what's more important, you can also gain inspiration.
I'm placing this as the last website because those are presentations, but they might be not the most
designer ish presentations you can get inspires how a well-prepared presentation should look like.
And since, for example, this is a high training presentation, you can think yourself, well, something
must be done right in this presentation.
If it's trending, maybe this this person has a big following, or maybe this presentation is that good?
As I see here, it's pretty well designed.
It's not outstanding, but it's a clean, nice looking presentation, which I could eventually gain
some inspiration from.
Okay, this will be the first step after each lesson in this section.
I'll give you a small request and you can probably anticipate that after this lesson, I'd like you
to visit all of those websites just to get a habit of checking them.
Please go into the first website right here in your tag and your selected type of of design, for example,
brochure.
Browse to all of them and you will know a bit more about design, a bit more about those colours and
you will get a little inspired before we move forward.
I hope you will have fun.
I always love to watch designs.
Let's move forward in the next lesson.


=== Advanced tricks only pros use! ===


--- Select colors ---

Selecting a color scheme.
And I want to say something that I didn't say previously.
We can select colors.
We can select images, icons and fonts.
And still when we will design, it can change.
But if you like more prepared, it's easier to switch out colors than to start without nothing and go
by your gut, go by what you like.
And those color schemes will make sure that if you use those multiple colors together, they most likely
will fit each other.
You can, of course, tinker with colors yourself if you are a super design design mind and you have
this artism in you.
Yes, you can of course select any colors you'd like, but I really love working with color schemes
and what I often do.
I can, for example, print screen this and paste this into my my PowerPoint so it's easier for me to
work.
You will have three main websites.
Of course, you can have your own websites, but I usually use them Adobe color CC.
It was previously called Adobe Cooler is most likely the biggest website and the most popular one,
which has a lot of views, a lot of new incoming colors, color schemes.
So it's definitely one to watch.
I'm setting all the links here in this project file that I will share with you.
Colors Adobe you can sort by most popular, most used recently, and so on and so on, so you can browse
through those colors.
The next little website will be color hunt.
Color hunt has also very nice color schemes and you can as well use the hot, the popular or some random
ones.
And those color schemes are also really beautiful.
And as you can see, we have the hex code, we can click here and we have it bigger, we can print screen,
we can use this anywhere.
And also it tries to show us similar colors, similar color schemes to that, which is a great kickstart
for us.
The third and is also like my favorite website to use.
You click on the explore and what's great here, you can browse it with your keyboard.
If my website will be smaller, this will get smaller and I can right click and browse those colors.
This is really beautiful.
I believe they also have an extension which you can install into your your photoshop programs.
Sadly not into PowerPoint, but that's no problem.
You can simply copy the colors over from here.
As you can see, we can view, we can export and we can save them to a PNG which is perfect for use.
So this is it.
When it comes to selecting the color scheme, your quest for this lesson will be to visit all those
websites.
Please visit those three websites and get familiar with their interface For the beginning.
You should select at least one color scheme that you really like and you would like to use in your presentation.
See you then.


=== Learn how to Animate ===


--- Select Images ---

All right.
Let's say that we previewed a few designs.
We have some inspiration, and we've selected a color scheme.
I will, for example, select this one.
I'm not sure that we will stick to it, but I really like this setup, so I'll just save that in the
background.
Your next step would be to select a few images and you can say No, I won't use images in my presentation.
I'll use only icons or I will use only text.
Well, it's important when you do a project and you want it to be professional to have a few fallback
plans.
If something is not working out, you will have always those few photographs, and those photographs
can be either selected complimentary to your to your color scheme or they can be generalized photographs
in the same fashion and type of the presentation you are creating.
So depending on what you need, I would like to tell you about a great website library stock.
This is a website which accumulates all free photo sharing websites into one search.
My favorite website with free photographs is unsplash.com, because those photographs here come in very
high quality.
But the advantage of library stock if I, for example, select people, people office, let's say something
like that and look at that download at stock.
Snap Pixabay Pixabay Pixabay Barn images.
Pexels.
These are all websites.
Find the photo.
These are all websites with free photographs to use free of charge.
So it's totally awesome to use this website because we can use free photographs in our presentation.
We can use the photo as is, we can recolor it later and then it will enhance our design.
I'm usually going to Unsplash.com at first to see if I can search for something fitting because it's
so amazing that detail and the quality of those images is out of this world.
It's like 5000 pixels per 3000 pixels.
Those photos are even too big.
So I always go to Photoshop and make them smaller.
You just click download Free Boom, and it downloads on other websites.
For example, at pixabay or Pixels, you can change the size of this and this is important.
Creative Commons zero Creative Commons zero means free for commercial use without linking back.
So you can of course appreciate this design and thank this designer, but you don't have to attribute
him at all, even in your commercial work.
So even if this is a project you are doing for your client, you can use this image and it's no problem.
That's why those images are so amazing, so great, and I've used them several times and I'm always
satisfied with them.
So this is it.
For this lesson, I'd like you to select at least five images and download them to your project folder.
So now we will have some inspiration, some colors, and a few images to work with.
Of course, as we create the presentation, we will download new images.
We will revisit this website.
But I wanted to make this one comprehensive chapter where I show you everything step by step, which
you can follow and replicate.
So this is why we select the images before we start the work.
A few images.
I will also download now five of them.
I'm not entirely sure if I want to have people images or animal images.
I don't really care.
I will select a few of them and we will see what we come up with later.
Okay, let's get it on for this lesson.
You know your request.
Select five images, download them and have them prepare for later work.


=== Designing Slides (1-7) ===


--- Select Icons ---

Now we finally get to my personal favorite spot icons.
I really love icons.
I think they do a lot of work in presentations, and I believe you can create outstanding designs using
just icons.
For example, I would like to introduce you to two websites or maybe you know them iconfinder and flat
icon.com.
Flat icon and icon finder are both great.
For example, you can select another like search for person icon.
You have those premium icons which you can purchase and you have those free icons and look at the left
side.
What's great here, you can select any or vector.
You can select, for example, only free icons, and then you can go one step forward and select no
link back.
This would be totally free icons, which you can use for any type of project.
And look at how many are here.
You can really get outstanding icons.
And what I enter an icon.
I can not only change the size if you want a bigger print to download, but since sometime they have
added icon.
Currently it's a new feature, but you can click boom and you can change the color of the icon right
away.
Okay, so Iconfinder has become better and better over the years.
The same thing goes for flat icon.
And in my opinion, this website is top one under icon website.
Not only great icons, they are not completely free.
You need to link back here, but you can also purchase like a ten bucks a month and you can use all
selection without credit.
But what's great here, you can not only search for icons, you can click on the menu and you have top
icons, latest icons, you have packs.
And this is so amazing.
Look at that essential set, 380 icons in the same fashion, in the same style, designed the same way.
Icon.
Here I have a pack of 400 similar design icons which I can use for my presentation.
How amazing is that?
And not only that, you remember that we've selected a color scheme.
Click on Download Pack, you have the free download and the premium download, but before I download
them I could click here Boom, boom, boom, boom.
I select plenty of those icons.
I, for example, select all the icons I want to download.
You can see on the right top side, I have the icons here, so I've selected like these are previous
icons I've selected.
So I have 60 icons here and I want to change their color.
You want to download all at once and that's so amazing.
I click here, I select Paint collection, Boom, I select my color scheme.
You remember we had the colors previously.
We just select the right colors.
Boom, for example, Red one and you select and download 60 icons at once or even more icons in all
the colors you need.
You select those download collection free boom.
You go to paint collection, you select the next color you need.
And now I would have icons in several colors prepared for my work.
How amazing is that?
I'm always so happy to see that that those websites work so well and I can give them credit any time.
For example, at the end of my presentation because they provide me with such amazing tools and the
designers gain as well, because the designers can make money by uploading icons here and designing
for this website.
So it's a win win situation.
I give them exposure.
Designers have a place to work, the icons are really perfect.
Just look at them.
They are beautiful.
Why not use them?
So this will be your quest for this lesson.
You can use either icon finder.
You can of course use other websites if you know websites with icons.
I just personally think flat icon is a great website which we all can use.
And this is from the Freepik family.
Freepik is also a great place to download free material for your graphical projects.
Okay, this is it for this lesson.
We've learned really a ton of great things.
We gained inspiration.
We selected colors, images and some icons and we are nearly done.
The last step will be to somewhat tinker with the fonts, but that's just a smaller step.
I'll show you how, when and where and we will see each other in the next entertaining, hopefully lesson.


=== Animating Slides (1-7) ===


--- Select fonts ---

There.
We arrived here.
My second favorite thing when it comes to designing is selecting fonts.
And the good news is for PowerPoint and overall for presentations, I wouldn't extend over to fonts.
You can select one good font and roll with it until the entire presentation, or you can select two
fonts which will be complementary.
Looking with each other where you use one font for titles and the second for the main text or text boxes.
Overall, I think I don't have to show you those websites, but I will go over them.
Dafont.com 1001 fonts 1001 Free fonts and font squirrel.
All of those websites accumulate plenty of fonts and you don't have to search so much because you have
like top lists or top font deal.
Well deals not.
But the reason and the hot fonts and some safe fonts which will be always good.
For example, one of those fonts is definitely open sans, open, sans.
And what's even better about this font?
It's a font family and you have light italic semibold bold, extra bold.
And let me say you that PowerPoint isn't perfect with fonts.
Some fonts will not work properly in PowerPoint, and PowerPoint has its own font list which it draws
from windows, so not all phones will work perfectly.
As you can see.
For example, I have obviously also open sans installed and when we go here I have only a few of them.
Why is that?
For example, we don't have open sans bold.
This is because PowerPoint as a software reads that you can bolden it here with the normal Windows options.
This is a little downside in my opinion because for example, Adobe software like Photoshop, they read
all the fonts you've installed and you have all of them here with PowerPoint.
It's a bit tricky, but as I said, you can select those same fonts.
I've listed a few of them, a few good fonts here, which I believe will work for any presentation,
always like Open sans Montserrat letter font.
These are totally awesome fonts, but you can of course search for your own and I think that you should
select two fonts here, go around, make a little search and install two fonts if you will have trouble
to select proper fonts or they will not appear in your PowerPoint.
You need to exit and open PowerPoint again because it loads the fonts from Windows and it needs to reload
them if you just installed them.
But if you don't want to search for them, just install open sans or Latino font or Montserrat.
These are great fonts which will 100% work properly in your PowerPoint.
If you want to be a bit more advanced and you want to explore a few fonts, please search for some top
fonts or new fonts and make sure they are free.
For example, here we have free for personal use.
We can also select 100% free fonts, which is even better.
Bebas New.
A totally, totally beautiful font.
You should also have it installed.
It's like the go to font as a designer, for example, or another font I want to show you.
Of course you know it already.
Lobster font.
How many designs did you see with this font?
It's because it just works.
It's a great font and it's just something to know about as a designer.
That lobster font is also very popular and it will always make a great design.
I hope this part of the course wasn't boring for you.
We did need to go over this because I couldn't live with myself If we would go forward with the design
without knowing what we do, where we got it from, and just randomly using images, photographs.
I need to have everything structured to be prepared to like have a portfolio of resources which I can
go to.
And once you are familiar with those websites, this is really all the arsenal you need.
You will go fluently through them.
You will select quickly a color scheme and you will normally go right into the design.
Okay.
I believe we are more than enough prepared to start creating.
Of course everything will unravel and unfold as we proceed with our work, but for now we are prepared.
I hope this was enjoyable for you.
You like those tutorials?
Let me know if all the lessons are okay so far and if yes, let us proceed.


=== Designing Presentations (8-14) ===


--- Brief Overview ---

Halo, saya sangat senang membuka bab ini sekarang dalam pelajaran ini, saya ingin ini akan menjadi pelajaran paling dasar
dari keseluruhan kursus ini.
Saya ingin memberi Anda pratinjau yang sangat singkat tentang PowerPoint dan hanya untuk membandingkannya dengan perangkat lunak lain.
Misalnya, Anda memiliki Photoshop.
Anda memiliki lapisan.
Anda membuat layer baru.
Anda menambahkan masker ke dalamnya.
Setelah Anda menetapkan mask, Anda menambahkan saluran penyesuaian.
Kemudian Anda menambahkan efek ke dalamnya saat Anda menambahkan efek ke lapisan bentuk tersebut dan Anda membuat topeng klipingnya,
misalnya, seperti itu, lalu Anda mengelompokkannya.
Anda tidak akan tahu apa yang baru saja terjadi jika Anda bukan pengguna Photoshop, karena saya menyebut
perangkat lunak ini sangat canggih dan Anda perlu waktu untuk mempraktikkannya untuk membiasakan diri dengan
semua fitur-fiturnya di PowerPoint.
Menurut pendapat saya, ini berbeda dengan PowerPoint sebagai sebuah program di mana Anda bisa langsung masuk dan menggunakannya dengan benar.
Langsung saja, menunya sangat intuitif dan pasti akan sangat membantu jika Anda sudah pernah menggunakan beberapa program
Microsoft Office seperti Excel, seperti Word dan tentu saja PowerPoint, dan Anda sedikit terbiasa dengan
sistem pita dalam kursus ini.
Saya tidak akan membahas satu per satu, misalnya, memberi tahu Anda bahwa ini adalah opsi font.
Sudah jelas bahwa Anda dapat membuat font yang Anda sukai seperti membenarkan font, lalu Anda dapat memiringkannya, Anda
dapat menggarisbawahinya, Anda dapat mengubah font, Anda dapat mengubah ukuran font dan Anda dapat membuatnya lebih besar, lebih
kecil seperti itu.
Ini adalah hal-hal yang jelas yang saya ingin Anda juga mengeksplorasinya saat bekerja, karena kita akan menggunakannya
berulang kali dalam pelajaran ini.
Saya hanya ingin memberi tahu Anda bahwa di PowerPoint, jika Anda tidak tahu, sejak tahun 2007, kami memiliki sistem
pita.
Sistem pita adalah fitur hebat yang mengelompokkan opsi penyuntingan serupa ke dalam satu wadah besar.
Dan itulah yang sangat saya sukai dari PowerPoint dan yang membuat alur kerja kita menjadi lebih mudah,
karena jika Anda mengklik sebuah item, Anda akan mendapatkan bentuk alat bantu tambahan dan alat bantu tersebut secara khusus ada di sini
untuk objek yang Anda pilih.
Jadi, ini lebih memudahkan untuk mengedit objek.
Ini membuatnya lebih mudah untuk mengedit gambar.
Ini lebih memudahkan untuk mengedit teks seperti di sini.
Saya cukup memilih jenis format ini dan saya yakin 100 persen bahwa saya akan bekerja dengan teks ini.
Bagian ini ada di sini untuk mengajarkan Anda hal-hal yang sangat penting saat bekerja di PowerPoint dan memiliki
alur kerja yang baik.
Saya hanya akan menunjukkan kepada Anda hal-hal yang penting dan saya ingin Anda bersiap-siap untuk bekerja sekarang.
Buka PowerPoint, buatlah beberapa slide.
Slide jelas dapat dibuat dengan mengklik kanan dan memilih slide baru.
Mereka dapat diatur ulang dengan bebas.
Jadi, Anda akan memiliki banyak kebebasan dalam pekerjaan Anda dan akan sangat membantu jika Anda dapat memasukkan beberapa ikon ke dalam
PowerPoint dan contoh gambar hanya untuk menguasainya dan mengetahui cara bekerja dengan perangkat lunak dan sedikit mengetahuinya.
Dan Anda akan segera melihat, betapa mudahnya mengedit, mengubah, dan membentuk ulang segalanya.
Kami akan membahas opsi-opsi penting tersebut.
Baiklah.
Ini adalah gambaran singkat.
Saya ingin memperkenalkan Anda di sini dengan itu.
Dan dalam pelajaran berikutnya, kita akan segera menyesuaikan pintasan kita.
Tidak sabar untuk melihat apakah pencarian kecil Anda untuk pelajaran ini adalah membuka PowerPoint dan memasukkan
beberapa item ke dalamnya.


=== Animating Presentations (8-14) ===


--- Adjusting our shortcuts ---

Hello.
Back again in the work.
Now, this will be something super important because you can see on the very left top side, probably
if you had your upgrade in PowerPoint last time, you will have autosave here.
We will of course delete that.
But basically this is the quick access toolbar.
The Quick Access Toolbar allows you to quickly grab certain options from PowerPoint here.
And what's cool about it, you can bring up with the left alt key or probably the option key on Mac.
This little shortcut buttons.
Now, as you can see, for example, at eight in this case I have the text box, I just press alt,
I press eight, boom, I have my text box.
I wouldn't have to go to insert, click on text box, click here and then start typing.
This is very effective when it comes to working in PowerPoint and I want to teach you how to use that.
I'm not sure that the older versions meaning 2010, 2007 or 2013 could do it the same way.
But here in the newest version of PowerPoint, which is 2016, you can simply right click and add to
Quick Access Toolbar.
Most likely you can do it exactly the same way.
If not, you can always click here, select more commands, and then you can search for the appropriate
command and place it here.
It takes a bit longer because, for example, you select all commands and this is a lot of commands,
but you can find your important ones.
What I want you to do here in this lesson is to add two important shortcuts inserting shapes and inserting
text boxes.
Because this is like the bread and butter of PowerPoint work.
You can do everything with those two options and it will take you unnecessary time to always click here.
I'll do this myself.
Right now I'll select more commands.
I will delete everything here, maybe apart from create a video because I like it really much.
I remove everything I select.
Okay.
And I want you to replicate my steps.
Now please go to insert and consider adding shapes and text box.
I will right click add to quick Access toolbar.
Right click add to Quick Access Toolbar and I have both my shapes and my text box.
I would like this to be my number one and two and as I click my left alt key, now I see it's number
three and four.
Well, it depends.
How handy are you?
How do you remember those shortcuts?
But basically saving.
Saving isn't as important because you can always press Ctrl s to save.
It's a very common shortcut.
You don't need to have it here, but it could be more to the right side.
That's why I will customize my quick access toolbar and let us make shapes the first ones and insert
text box The second ones or even insert text box will be number one because it's such an important feature.
Now, each time you work in PowerPoint and you create something new alt one, boom, boom, boom, alt
two, you select the appropriate shape alt two, you select the next shape alt two boom, and the workflow
gets quicker.
Because of that.
You can not only use these shortcuts by clicking alt, you can get in the habit of inserting something
else.
It takes a bit longer.
For example, if there is more than one letter like I did here, for example, I press n and I have
a one you need to press A then you need to press one.
This is something that you need to remember because if you have more than ten shortcuts, it will place
010203 and so on.
So you can remember alt and if there are two letters, you just need to press them continuously as three
well, 3D models in PowerPoint.
This is a new feature.
I don't quite like it because, well, it isn't harmful, but it's.
But it isn't as necessary in a software like PowerPoint.
All right.
For this lesson, this is it.
Your quest is to add those two shortcuts.
Insert text boxes and insert shapes.
In the next lesson, we will go over the selection pane, which is also very important, and not everyone
knows about it.
So see you hopefully in the next lesson ASAP.


=== Kinetic Typography & Motion Graphics ===


--- Selection Pane ---

Hello and welcome back.
There is something in PowerPoint that is being overlooked.
Just as in other graphic design softwares like Photoshop, we have layers here and we see all the layers
we are working on the same way we have our selection pane in PowerPoint.
Please go to home and on the very right side you have editing.
Click on select and click on Selection Pane.
I know there was a little problem because in PowerPoint 2011 for Mac version, I guess we couldn't access
the selection pane.
I'm not entirely sure, but I know that some features in the PowerPoint 2011 Mac version aren't there,
but PowerPoint 2016 for Mac has this implemented?
Definitely so my students reported.
So we have this selection pane.
As you can see, each object which is here is listed in the selection pane.
Each picture we can deselect it, we can rearrange it.
For example, this one, this is now under the star, but I can take it, place it at the very top side
and it will be over it.
So here you can not only select items if you have troubles grabbing them, for example, one is very
big, one is smaller and you can click on it properly.
You just deselect other ones.
You click on this one and you have it selected.
You can also work with the visual hierarchy, meaning which comes first, which comes last.
Another great thing to remember about Selection Pane, and really not everyone uses selection pane,
but it's such an important feature because we can double click and we can rename layers.
Why would it be that important?
Well, later on I'll also teach you about animation, animating elements and overall working with this
this tab.
So in the animations, we can make a brief stop here we have the animation pane and just look at it.
I animated this icon and I animated this icon and I animated everything else.
Now you have no idea what this picture.
12 What is text box eight?
What is auto shape 100?
But you will remember what rename was because we just renamed it.
So this is important because depending on how you name those objects in the selection pane, this way
they will appear across animation pane and everywhere in PowerPoint.
You don't have to to precisely remember everything about that now because I'm just making a brief stop
here to show you.
Yes.
This is something we will work with.
You just need to memorize somewhere that I was talking about this.
And once we design our slides, everything will come come natural to you because you already know that
there is something like the selection pane.
If you are using the selection pane.
Right on, spot on.
Well done.
That's the way to go.
Okay, This is it.
For this lesson.
I'd like you to have PowerPoint open.
I'd like you to go to home Select Selection Pane.
Open it up and click around with those objects.
Make them invisible.
Reorder them.
Check their hierarchy and overall try to rename something so you will get in the proper habit of using
the selection pane once you will be done.
With that, I want to show you something cool with the format options of each and every object in PowerPoint.


=== Template creation in PowerPoint ===


--- Format Shape options ---

Okay, we will already talking about quite a few things.
And this may seem a bit chaotic for you because I'm not going over everything step by step.
I'm just showing you some important things which we will definitely use in this course and in our workflow.
The next thing I want you to remember, because I have several questions of students how to get this.
This toolbar on the right side is the format options.
I want to show you.
This is a simple image or for example, this is a text box.
I go to the text box format options and I have its fill meaning this shape fill as I as I if I click
it, I get this orange color on the left side and on the right side I have the text fill options.
We have options like changing the color using another color with the eyedropper.
This option was also not available in the older versions of PowerPoint, sadly, but in 2013 2016 we
have it.
We can select a gradient, a texture.
For example, when we go to this shape outline, we can select the weight of this outline.
But students also reported to me, Hey, I can't make it more than six points.
And I wanted a big outline here, a bit weight of this outline.
What's happening?
How can I change that?
This is because here in this part of PowerPoint, we only have limited options.
If you want to get to the detailed options, well, I wouldn't call them advanced because they are simply
a bit more detailed.
You always right click and you select format shape everything which you see here, like changing the
shape fill, changing the text, fill, changing the size of this little object.
Everything is available here, meaning we have three boxes and two options.
We have the shape options and the text options, just as we had here.
The text options and the shape options.
But here they are far more detailed.
I select my shape options and I have my bucket fill.
I have my effects, which I can add.
The effects can be also applied here shape effects.
But here it's kind of more professional because you have the presets, you have all the options available
and here it's a bit more difficult to work with the options because here, for example, I can only
click a shadow, but here I can change the color of this shadow.
I can change the size of this shadow, the blur.
I can change.
As you can see everything in this options.
You have to remember that if you want to work with the size, with the position or with the fill options,
it's a tiny bit better to go into.
The format shapes your quest for this lesson because I can't explain this to you.
This is a waste of time.
If I would say, look, this is transparency, this is color and these are line options, of course
I will go over that once.
We will design slides.
But for now, your request will be to insert a shape.
Hopefully you will do that with Alt and to you will select a shape.
You will insert it, then click on it, click on format, shape and play around with the fill and the
line options.
I was talking that we had only here in the shape outline.
Wait, we can only go to six points here.
We can go in the line options to as many points as we want.
As you can see, we can make it even 20 points big.
Then we can change the compound type to two.
For example.
Those two lines, the dash type can be changed.
So you can see how many important options are here and only some of them are here.
You can see we can change the dashes.
But what about the compound type?
We don't have it because we need to go into the line options.
We can even use gradient lines, which we couldn't access here.
Here we can only select a line and nothing else.
Here we can select a cool gradient.
We have a few presets.
Well, those presets aren't so perfect, but they can get us going.
Okay, so this is your quest.
Please.
I'm telling Quest because this is more RPG.
Like I like this word, but this is your simple task.
For this lesson, please right click, format, shape and play around with those options.
In the next lesson, I'd like to go over cropping and coloring.
This is also a completely like different topic now, but it's also super important and it's important
that you will have that somewhere in your mind.
So see you in this next lesson.
I am waiting for it because this will be a cool one.
So see you there.


=== AI In PowerPoint - Microsoft Copilot for 2025 ===


--- How to insert a screenshot properly into PowerPoint ---

1
So, you may think there's nothing simpler
2
than inserting a screenshot, and you would be right.
3
In order to insert properly a screenshot into PowerPoint,
4
you go to the Insert tab, and you can use
5
the Screenshot function.
6
Clicking on the Screenshot function, it will try to capture
7
all available windows which you have opened.
8
As you can see, I have several programs open,
9
like PowerPoint, my browsers.
10
And additionally, you can select Screen Clipping.
11
Let me show you why would you want to use this.
12
Let's, for example, say that I have a picture.
13
I would like this guy to be in my PowerPoint.
14
Okay, he's looking kinda scary and angry at me,
15
so let's go for something softer, like this duck.
16
And going back to PowerPoint, I can pick Screenshot,
17
Screen Clipping, and it will show you parts of my face
18
and show you everything that is currently on the screen.
19
Once the screen goes so milky, you can click and clip
20
only the frame you would like
21
to be inserted into PowerPoint.
22
Why is that great?
23
I do not have to download the photograph,
24
I do not have to do extra work to resize it, prepare it.
25
I just clip my screen right in front of me,
26
and it's automatically put in PowerPoint.
27
Another way of doing this would be
28
pressing Print Screen on your keyboard.
29
Pressing Print Screen, going back to PowerPoint.
30
Let me open a new slide.
31
And just right clicking and pasting the screenshot you made.
32
Now, this is a screenshot of my entire monitor.
33
I could then go to Picture Format, Crop,
34
and I could, again, crop this down to this tiny picture.
35
I would have to click Crop again, and I would have,
36
basically, the same result as previously.
37
But as you can see, using the Insert, Screenshot,
38
and either selecting an active window
39
or the Screen Clipping option,
40
it makes it very easy, convenient and quick.


=== ZOOM & MORPH (Office 365 / PPT 2019) ===


--- Coloring ---

Hello.
A very important topic about icons and images in general against vector icons.
These are images.
The same as picture.
For example, those are PNG icons and if I make them bigger, you can see they lose quality.
Vector icons, however, are made of points and vectors, so no matter how big they are, they are mathematically
calculated and they will always remain crisp.
So this is why when we use vector icons, we can select format shapefile and we can change their color
because they are like PowerPoint shapes.
They can be simply filled with any color with images, images like like this PNG icon or this normal
picture.
In the format options have picture options because these are simple pictures.
And some students were asking me they have an icon.
Why can't they change it to any color?
Because this is an image and these color options are only here to adjust certain color values of the
color channel of this object.
The same as I would click on this picture, I will click here.
And in the color options, you can see I can get such an effect by adjusting, for example, the hue
and saturation or the R, G or B color lowering, one color extending other colors.
And this is what this function does.
It doesn't recolor to to any color you want.
Sadly, this should be an option in PowerPoint, but we still don't have it.
We should have an option like color overlay where we can recolor everything to any color we want, but
sadly we don't have it in PowerPoint.
That's why you need to consider if you want to use vector icons like that, which are a bit harder to
obtain and harder to import into PowerPoint.
Or if you want to go with images, if you go with images, I'm suggesting to recolor them even on other
websites or recoloring them on other graphic design softwares so they are prepared for work.
For example, you have a color scheme made of five colors and you are recoloring them properly before
you start the work else you are doomed for the PowerPoint options and you can only change the color
slightly.
Well, perhaps in this case in.
In this case I can make it to a white icon.
Perfect.
But that's not always possible.
I would then right click and send that to back and I would have this icon in front in white.
Okay.
But I had no guarantee that in those color options I'll have my white color.
But when I use the vector icon there is no problem.
I just go to format, shape fill and I make it white.
If you don't know what I'm talking about, you should read that up on the internet.
What are PNG and bitmap images and what are vector images?
If you'd like, I can also explain that to you in more detail.
But for this lesson I wanted to make you aware about the options which we have for the picture tools,
as you can read here and for the drawing tools.
Since this is a shape, it can use the drawing tools.
This is it.
For this lesson.
I'd like you to import an image as your quest.
Go to format and play around with those options, at least to know what effects are possible, like
the mosaic effect, what corrections are possible, and what color options do you have.
They are limited to those options we have here.
But still, hey, we have something.
We have something to work and this has to do it.
We don't need more.
We can do still great designs with that.


=== Recording and exporting videos ===


--- Cropping & Changing Shapes ---

Another very important tool we have.
Is the cropping option.
You have an image, a big image, but you only wanted those rocks to show here so you can position the
image.
You can go to its format and you can select crop.
Crop is great because we can crop it like that.
To the size of our slide.
Then you can hit crop to cut it off.
You can hit then again crop or do it previously.
You can see that you didn't destruct this image.
You still have the full image here.
And if you need to, if you change your mind or you need to adjust anything, you can work still with
the image.
What's also great in the crop options, you have crop to shape and aspect ratio.
If I wanted to make a perfect rectangle out of it, this would be no problem.
I would go to crop to shape and I will select the rectangle tool or a perfect circle.
Maybe a circle will be the better example because we already have a rectangle crop crop to shape circle.
But now it's totally ugly.
Don't worry about that because you can always go to crop aspect ratio and select a square.
This way you will get a perfect circle.
So this is something to remember for our upcoming work that in the cropping options, not only can you
simply crop the image like like people do with my shift key, of course, because I want to remain on
constant proportions.
If you hold down shift, you will make it like that.
You can click crop, but you have also crop to shape and aspect ratio.
And why am I talking about this?
This is a feature of PowerPoint which repeats itself.
Let's say that we have our insert shape.
I'll insert another rectangle, but then I think, --, I didn't want it to be a rectangle.
No problem.
You go to its format settings, you go to edit shape, change, shape, just as we had in the cropping
tools and you can change the shape to a circle.
Now if you want it to be a perfect circle, you make the height three width three enter, enter.
Boom.
We have another perfect circle.
If I hold down my shift and left Ctrl key, I can move it outside this middle point.
And we have two perfect circles made with like PowerPoint options in a matter of really seconds.
As you can probably guess, your quest for this lesson will be to insert a shape.
Insert a picture and crop them properly to circles.
This is great practice when it comes to designing and it will definitely be useful because circles like
that and elements will be definitely used in this course later.
Okay, slowly we will close out this sections, maybe a few things more, but all in all, I think you
are getting prepared to the work because you've already heard about the most important options.
You are fluently inserting text, boxes, shapes.
You are working with images, icons and eventually also vector icons and you can crop and reshape elements.
Basically, you are ready to work so soon?
We will start the real design.
Can't wait for that.
So see you in the next lessons.


=== Video-oriented slide design ===


--- Merge Shapes Magic ---

Welcome to the ninja PowerPoint tricks.
Not everyone knows about.
At first I'd like to show you the merge shapes.
Normally in PowerPoint, we are kind of limited when it comes to the shapes to those that we have here.
We can, of course, edit their points and adjust them a little bit, but basically it's a bit difficult
to get something quite unique in PowerPoint.
What if you wanted to combine multiple circles to create something of a bubble or just something like
that where luckily you can select everything.
You can go to the format options and on the left side you have merge shapes.
This is another feature which wasn't available in the older versions of PowerPoint.
I guess in the PowerPoint 2011 Mac version, it also isn't available and in the 2000, maybe seven,
but 2013 2016 definitely have them and all newer versions of course, will have them.
You can merge certain shapes.
You can union, combine, fragment, intersect or subtract them.
And look how amazing if you union this this becomes one shape.
So if you fill that with a picture, it will fill right as we have it here.
And this is a great feature because we can get some unique things like for example, we would like to
have something crossed out here.
It will be difficult to make normally, but if we use our shapes, we rotate them or we would just like
to have a custom line here going from the right bottom side towards here, you select the first one,
you press shift, you select the second one, you go to the format and you can intersect or subtract
those shapes.
It depends which object is clicked first.
This is the way it will work if I select this ledge first.
For example, pick, shift, pick.
I go to merge shapes and I subtract.
It goes like that.
But if I select this object first and this one the second, if I click merge shapes subtract, it will
work like this.
The way this is used will be explained later when we design slides.
At this point I want you to be aware of the merge shape options.
I want you to open up PowerPoint to add a few elements and try and merge them into one element or try
to subtract them from each other so you can see those custom results.
This is now a shape.
It's great that we can still reshape and reformat it the way we want and it has a custom unique design
and look.


=== Charts and Data Visualization ===


--- Adding Vectors to PowerPoint ---

All right.
Importing vector files into PowerPoint.
I want to show you how it's done.
It won't always work 100% perfect.
But let me show you.
I'm, for example, using Freepik and Vecteezy to get a few vectors.
And let's maybe make an example of two vectors.
I wrote school and I'll just select any design.
For example, this looks quite complicated, so let's try to import that into PowerPoint.
I will select free download and I'll download the vector onto my PC.
I do the same with those icons from Freepik.
It requires me to attribute this and I'll do this right now and overall, but we will delete those icons.
I just want to show you how to use them, how to import them, and I'll check if we will be able to
do this.
Okay.
I did unzip both files and perfect one is EPS so we can check it this out.
And one is I let's first select the I, I'll select.
Okay.
And I'm using Adobe Illustrator CS6 for that.
That's a downside that you will need some vector software.
You could eventually export those files with some cloud converting software, but this may not work.
And I have reports from students that it wasn't working always for them.
This is because we need to export this file, this design to IMF.
Let me just quickly check the layers of this design.
I can see it on one layer and and before I export this file, what I like to do is to release the layers
so the file is easier to read.
You can click here on the layers, click here and select release two layers.
Now each of those is a separate layer.
I will also select them and make them equal with the very first group because the first one was just
a group.
So now it's an empty layer.
I can even delete this and I have 24 layers because I deleted one.
It's a very simple vector file.
Now I go to file, I'll go to export and I'll save it simply as an enhanced metafile because this is
the file which PowerPoint is able to read.
And this is the most crucial moment.
We can't get 100% sure that they will work because this is only a converted file.
I'll open the next file and I'll do the same.
Let's maybe this time not release the layers and see if that will work.
File straight away.
Export enhanced Metafile second one and save.
Okay.
I'm arriving at PowerPoint.
I will select the first second one.
I'll click a new slide.
And will select the first one.
So this is basically my vector file.
What you need to do in order to work with this vector file, you need to right click select group and
select ungroup.
PowerPoint is asking if you want to convert it to a Microsoft office drawing object.
And this is the moment where it turns editable in PowerPoint.
Yes, I want to do this.
Once again, I will select group ungroup and this text is really making.
And you see, first problems arise.
This was so much text that it couldn't be released properly.
Once again, ungroup.
Finally I got all the objects and this is a really crazy file because so many items are here.
And for example, I wanted only the buses so I would need to somehow click and select them.
Okay.
The background you can see it's not perfect, but I would need to select Ctrl G.
Okay, select the bus, select this bus, Ctrl G, take it away.
Okay.
Nothing else is important for me and I was somehow able to use this vector.
It was a bit tricky, but we were able to do this.
Let's now go over the icons.
Is this working?
Right click.
Group Ungroup.
Yes, I want the drawing object.
Right click once again.
Ungroup.
And boom, there we have it.
So everything worked perfectly.
Even I didn't release the layers here, but I just like to do this to make the conversion to a bit easier.
Okay, so this is it.
The last step I would like to take is because now I have so many objects here, I will just select this
icon Ctrl G boom.
I have this unnecessary background.
You always need to remember that sometimes the background is another layer Ctrl, G control G control
G.
You would need to do this step, but right now look beautiful vector icons within PowerPoint format
shape fill and their color can be changed.
They are vector.
Everything is working great.


=== Kiosk style presentations ===


--- Adding Vectors to PowerPoint on MAC ---

All right, Mac users, I have a good information and a bad information.
The good information, it's somewhat possible to import vectors into your Mac PowerPoint software,
but it's far more difficult.
And it doesn't always work.
Students have troubles with that.
And we I wouldn't say that we came up with a solution, but I was able to track down a few solutions
from the Adobe Forums and from discussion with other students how to eventually import vector files
into your Mac version of PowerPoint.
Basically, if you watch the previous lesson, you do everything the same until the exporting point
from Illustrator.
Again, you need a vector program like Illustrator or like Sketch to to export it to MF or at least
to PDF.
But there is another step necessary.
I have here three workarounds, which I will of course also share with you here using illustrator and
library Office Free Software, Open Office and Adobe Acrobat.
This is possible with some pdf exporting and I have everything explained here how to do this step by
step and I will simply require you to read all three of those solutions.
Maybe also you will come up with your own solution because basically it's doing the same exporting your
vector as SVG or MF, then going to another software, inserting this image here, and then select picture
right click and break the picture.
Once the picture is broke, like broken up in pieces, you can open this file in PowerPoint and it will
be easier to import.
The same goes for those options.
They are very similar.
You again have to use this office and then break this picture.
The third option seems the most reasonable for me because you can go into Illustrator, you can export
your file as Adobe PDF, which is a very normal format.
And then going into Adobe Acrobat, you can go to file Open, you open the PDF you created and you go
to file export to Microsoft PowerPoint.
This should eventually work, but I cannot guarantee that the vector you use will be perfectly imported
into PowerPoint.
Just look at that.
We have one vector file.
We export it as a PDF or another format.
Then we need to break it somehow and then we import it into PowerPoint.
So many converting steps that something might go wrong with layers, with colors, with the actual vector.
So I can guarantee you results.
But from what I know it's possible people are doing it, so please try to do the same on your Mac version.
I would now ask you please watch the previous lesson to know how to download your example vectors.
Download them and try to replicate the steps to get your vector image into PowerPoint for the sake of
this course, we will not necessarily need to use vector objects.
This is just for you for your future projects and if you'd like to use vectors within PowerPoint, it's
difficult, but it should somehow work.
And I'm also confident that the Microsoft developers will make it a bit easier in future versions and
implement the vector features even better into PowerPoint.


=== Photo Editing & Manipulation ===


--- Importing SVG Vector Images into PowerPoint! (02.2018) ---

1
Hello today I have an important announcement.
2
PowerPoint finally took steps in order
3
to make SVG vector files usable in PowerPoint.
4
Be aware because not everyone will be able to use them.
5
So let me now explain you why, where, and what.
6
Okay, so in the recent release PowerPoint
7
starts to allow to ungroup SVG images.
8
We just drag and drop this image here.
9
We can right click, group and simply ungroup.
10
In the format tab we have also this little button
11
which makes the same convert to shape.
12
Boom, little guess and we have
13
this vector object grouped.
14
We can recolor it, we can change it but,
15
be aware not everyone will be possible to do this.
16
I went to the Office websites and,
17
what's new in PowerPoint 2016
18
especially for Office 365 subscribers.
19
Latest updates and they always give informations.
20
We have February 2018 so there's another update,
21
but they didn't update this website, but
22
that doesn't matter.
23
In December 2017 convert SVG icons to shapes
24
was implemented into PowerPoint straight away.
25
When it comes to Office Insiders
26
this is like a better testing feature.
27
So if you would like and have
28
all those new features immediately,
29
well that you are testing them
30
so that they can be unstable,
31
you should be an Office Insider.
32
It's important that you go into PowerPoint
33
if you have your PowerPoint 2016 or Office 365
34
because PowerPoint 2013, 2010, 2011 for Mac,
35
those versions will definitely not get the update.
36
Microsoft is not supporting them anymore.
37
So you will not be able to use SVG images
38
straight away in PowerPoint.
39
It's very important that you go to
40
file, account, and on the right side
41
you have all informations regarding your version.
42
I'm an Office Insider so I get new updates immediately,
43
and as you can see my current version is 1801, this build.
44
And as you can see, since version 1712
45
that convert SVG icons option is available.
46
Half a year ago PowerPoint did decide to edit this tab,
47
and this was an information that
48
something with vector files is going on.
49
I mean the icons.
50
Now again, only Office 365 subscribers
51
most likely have this option.
52
Eventually PowerPoint 2016 users
53
also will have this if they update their version.
54
Icons, well they are not perfect.
55
Personally I'm not using them because
56
I like to be unique and have my own style,
57
and my own icons.
58
And I use third party programs and websites
59
to get those icons, but I just wanted to show you this.
60
Those icons already indicated to me
61
that something is going on with grouping,
62
with SVG images, with the formatting,
63
because PowerPoint did implement vectorized graphics
64
as a native PowerPoint function, those icons.
65
Still I don't use them, but I thought
66
that something is going on.
67
PowerPoint didn't communicate this properly.
68
That should be a big, big, big
69
information, "Hey SVG is coming into play.
70
"We can finally use normal vector files
71
"in PowerPoint straight away."
72
They should inform better about this.
73
I had to know about this from my blog.
74
And I went into the updates, and then finally,
75
I just tested it out.
76
It may not work perfectly for every SVG file.
77
I can't guarantee you that it will.
78
But, finally we do have the option
79
to use vector files in PowerPoint without using Illustrator.
80
Still converting to EMF and Illustrator will
81
always be the safest way of getting vectors into PowerPoint.
82
But, I'm really excited that this starts to work.
83
This becomes reality.
84
PowerPoint is finally taking a real step forward
85
and I don't have to show you how to do this in this tutorial
86
because you can download vector icons from websites like
87
FLATICON.com, and any other really website
88
that offers vector stock images,
89
and vector objects in the SVG format.
90
SVG is pretty popular, it's not EPS,
91
it's not PDF but SVG I can take it.
92
Thank you Microsoft for finally,
93
properly implementing this and
94
I'll be surely using that a lot now.
95
I hope this tutorial is really informative to you
96
because this is a burning answer
97
that I want to give to so many students and viewers of mine.
98
I finally am happy to announce something
99
about PowerPoint that I really believe will benefit us all.
100
Sorry for making this a little bit long, but
101
this is pretty exciting news.
102
And I can't wait what future updates you might get.
103
See you around.
104
And use those SVG images now or
105
at least try if they work properly for you.
106
Note, you have to have PowerPoint 2016
107
and it will be best if you have the Office 365 subscription,
108
then it will work 100 percent.


=== Accessibility ===


--- Editing Vector Points ---

If you manage to get those vector icons into PowerPoint, you can edit their points.
And this is amazing because you can right click and select edit points here or you click on this object,
you go to format and you have added shape on the left side.
Normally you can change the shape, but here you would like to edit its points.
As you can see, for example, in this vector object, we have a lot of points.
You can still, if you are precise at new points, you can adjust them.
And we have three different types of points.
It's a matter of clicking around and using them a bit around, but basically.
You can smooth this out or you can corner out those points.
You can right click select smooth, straight or corner.
If I click corner, it will snap back to being a perfect corner.
If I make it smooth or straight, boom, I have a nice line like that.
So it depends on what do you want to achieve.
But there is no perfect way to use it.
It's a bit clunky, but I wanted to show you with that that even if you insert any given shape, for
example, you have a shape like that with my shift key, make sure that it's on perfect proportions.
But you would like a little change here.
No problem.
Right click edit point.
Boom at point.
And that's the problem.
You sometimes click away.
But I'll just go back at this point.
I wanted to add another point.
Boom, make it a corner point, boom.
And in a few mouse clicks we made something like that.
We change the shape and well, it's not perfect.
It's a bit difficult to work with that in PowerPoint, and PowerPoint is definitely not the perfect
software for vector objects and editing those points and adjusting them.
This is not Illustrator, but it's possible.
And at least we have the possibility to to do something.
At least we have that we can edit points.
We can, for example, make this a hole.
We can delete points.
Oh, not like that.
You can, of course.
Right click and delete points If you want to make a bigger change to your object, I would need to adjust
this a little bit, but it would be possible to cover this up in gray just by clicking and removing
some points.
This is something very important to remember.
We might use that as well when we edit our slides later on, so be prepared with that.
In this lesson you should grab a shape, edit a few points of this shape or wrap a vector icon and edit
a few points of this vector icon.
Thanks for your attention in this lesson.
I hope this was helpful and informative and we will see each other in the next one.


=== [MORE] PowerPoint Slide Design ===


--- Aligning and distribution ---

Another total ninja trick will be the alignment and distribution.
Now let's say that you have more icons.
I will select a new slide.
I will delete everything and I want those icons to be perfectly aligned next to each other.
I have a lot of them.
Sorry, I'm using only two icons, but you have so much going on on your slide and you would like to
categorize this somehow.
Okay, this is too much.
What I want to show you is you can select all those objects.
You can go to format and you can select the align panel.
It's something super important and very nice in PowerPoint that you can align to selected objects which
will align to the first and the last object, or you can align to slide, which will align to the beginning
and end of the slide.
Let's select, align selected objects and let's distribute them horizontally.
You may not know what's going on, but they have equal spaces between them in order to make them in
one line.
You would need to click, align and also align middle.
So they are all in one line and you can see how quickly we distributed them properly.
You can see there is not enough space for them.
I will space them a bit out, just a bit to the left.
I will select them.
I will once again go to align and distribute them horizontally.
If I would be to distribute them vertically, it would distribute them from the most top item to the
most bottom item.
Now look what happens.
Select all of them.
Format align.
Distribute vertically.
You can see it can have a small error.
This is because it mathematically counts.
How it should be distributed and aligning is another thing which I would suggest to add to our shortcut
box.
You can right click on align, add to Quick Access Toolbar and I would like it to be more commands number
one, two, three.
Okay, so that way we can always select all three and select something else.
At first I would like them to be aligned to slide all three.
Now I can again align them middle alt three, distribute them horizontally.
Boom and I have them perfectly aligned.
The same goes when you use shapes and objects.
You can select a new slide, you can have shapes, and you would like to have those circles perfectly
aligned.
Now, if you do it like that, PowerPoint is helping you with that, but sometimes you don't get the
possibility to use that.
And for example, I will show you another little trick if you want to align them here, that they will
finish here.
You know that it uses the first object and the last object you can control.
C Control V, add a new object here.
Control C, control V, add a new object here.
Select all those objects Alt three Make sure they are align selected objects so o and alt three distribute
horizontally.
H Now I can delete the most left object, the most right object, and I'm sure they are distributed
here perfectly.
This is a matter of clicking around.
So your quest for this lesson definitely will be to add a few elements.
Go to format, click on align and click on each option once so you will understand how that works.
You have those little icons and they help you a lot.
That's a little downside.
If I press alt three, I don't see those icons, but basically very often you use align middle and distribution.
So I automatically remember where they are and I click on them and align to slide align to selected
objects.
You will need to get familiar with those options because this is something amazing and you will most
likely use that throughout your PowerPoint career And overall in design, this is something to know
about.


=== [MORE] PowerPoint Tips & Tricks ===


--- Format Painter & Animation Painter ---

You are nearly equipped with all the knowledge and tools to start the real design workflow.
Until you do, I want to show you a last super cool thing in PowerPoint, which also not everyone uses.
I've probably said that a lot, but that's simply true.
You are editing like crazy.
You did change the color of the text.
Let me go to format.
What did I want to do?
I have orange text.
I have it filled with a ugly yellow background.
I went to home.
I made it bigger.
I selected this object and I did change the font to, for example, Bebas.
And I have it like that and I want to repeat that.
Repeat that with I don't want to edit this object.
I want to paste the format of this one to the first text as well.
Look how amazing I can click on this object clicking here because this would only select text.
I want to click here so the entire shape is selected.
Go to home format painter and boom, the entire formatting options are painted over to this object and
this applies as well to shapes.
For example, you have a different color of this shape home format.
Painter Boom one click and you are there.
Later, as we will explain animations, the same thing is possible with animations.
You have faith, you add animation, you fly in, you add animation, you pause, you add animation.
It fades off for animations at once.
And I want that those animations to be as well available for those objects.
No problem.
You click on the shape which has those animations.
Animation painter, Boom.
Animation painter.
Boom.
All animations would be applied to the other object as well.
So this is another cool trick format.
Painter and animation painter allows you to quickly paint the format over to another object.
Okay, this is it.
You are equipped with knowledge.
Your last quest here will be to go to home and use the format painter to paint one format over from
one object to another so you will know how this option works.


=== [MORE] PowerPoint Animation Projects ===


--- Change the Aspect Ratio ---

All right.
In this course, we are definitely working and focusing on presentations on the 16 per nine format,
which is suitable for video and for most of the screens.
But if you like to design a poster, a book cover or something else in PowerPoint, you can be aware
that on the design tab and by the way, I don't recommend those basic designs because everyone is using
them and they are overused.
You have the slide size options in the slide size.
You can go a standard four by three or the normal widescreen, but you can also select custom slide
size.
You can select any size you want.
You have a few predefined like the A4, which will be a normal A4 screen.
Of course, you can adjust the width, adjust the height, the number of slides.
Obviously landscape portrait the way you want it, you will select okay, you can maximize or ensure
fit.
It doesn't really matter.
It will just automatically adjust the size of your objects.
Just make sure you hit portrait if you want it to be differently.
Okay?
And sure fit and boom, everything is adjusted and I have A4 images here to be prepared.
You won't use this perhaps often, but this is definitely a possibility.
In PowerPoint and in PowerPoint, we can export files to PDFs, to images.
So you are covered.
You can create a PDF if you have no advanced knowledge.
In other softwares, you can create a PDF right here in PowerPoint, you can press alt one, you will
have, you can add text, you can add images, you can add any designs you want here, and you can basically
even create an eBook right within PowerPoint.
This is just something to remember about.
It's not a super common practice to do this, but if you'd like, it's possible and it's something to
remember for future projects you might eventually want to do in PowerPoint.


=== Conclusion ===


--- Types of Animation ---

Hey, finally, we are going to talk about animation and this will be the last step which will prepare
you for the real PowerPoint work.
Okay, then animation.
Our entire point of interest will be in this step.
The transition step, in case you wonder, is the transition between one slide and the next slide.
This is the transition step.
But the animations tab allows you to apply animations to objects within PowerPoint.
Okay.
As you remember, we can press alt two to quickly create a few elements and I'll just create just a
few so you see what's going on.
All right.
We have three objects.
We can click on any object and we can go to the animations tab.
Once you click on the object, animations become available.
If I have nothing selected, I can even open the animation pane.
I see nothing is there.
What you need to do in order to add animations, you always need to have an object selected.
As you can see, we have a menu.
We can enlarge this menu and we have a few animations here, but we have green ones, those yellow ones
and those red ones and also motion pads.
I'll show you in a second what everything is.
Those are in animations.
Those are emphasis animations and those are exit animations.
Of course, in animation is when the object will appear.
Emphasis animations.
I can select any for example, polls will be the emphasis effect.
And the third, let's select and exit animation fade, fly out or float out.
Okay, we can have a float out.
You can see as I click on it, we get a brief preview of what will happen later on.
We will talk about the animation pane.
Okay, I'll press shift F5 and I have three types of animation.
My first click makes the animation in my second click will make emphasis on this object.
And my third click will make this to get out of the slide.
As you can see by color, I applied three types of animations to those objects.
Let me add another object, for example, another circle.
And we have a fourth type of animation, which is motion pad.
Motion pads are similar.
We have, for example, a line movement, and we can move this object wherever we want with this animation.
However you see this start point and end point, I can adjust the end point, but I can also adjust
the start point.
And it's a bit tricky because this object is here, but the animation is now here.
Look what happens.
Okay.
The first three animations and it snaps to this point and it animates.
So you need to be very careful when you work with those motion pads because if you have an object and
the animation starts somewhere else, the object will magically fly through there.
What you always need to do, or what's recommended is to start from the same position and just adjust
the end point.
This way we'll have an animation like this.
No problem.
Looks cool.
And these are the basics about animations.
Of course, your quest for this lesson is to add four elements and apply one animation each.
Each type of animation to one object.
So you have a total at least of four animations.
Go ahead, open PowerPoint and create those four simple animations.

--- Add multiple Animations ---

We already know the four types of animations we have in this lesson, I'd like to show you how to add
multiple animations to one object.
Let's say that I have this first object selected and I would like to have faith and for example, wipe
on the same object.
This won't look good, but I want to have it.
If I click on it, I'll just replace the original animation with wipe, but I want it to have fade in
as well.
For example, an exit fade.
In order to do so in PowerPoint, you need to select add animation.
This option allows you to add multiple animations to one object.
So I have one animation here.
I will go add animation, for example, the exit Fade animation, and now this one object, as you can
see on the timeline.
And it would be good if you have the animation pane opened.
So you can click here and open it.
And I have two animations on the Teardrop Tree object.
Another thing to know about is that this is not all.
PowerPoint is not the perfect animation tool, but we have a few more animations than we can find here
by clicking more, more entrance effects, more emphasis effects, more exit effects.
Right now we have about ten of them here.
But if I select more entrance effect, I have the entire list of animations.
And what is cool, if you have an object selected, you can very quickly preview all those animations.
This is all I wanted to tell you about in this lesson.
So you will have actually two quests here.
One, you should add multiple animations to one object to see how that feels, how that looks, and
how to overall do it in PowerPoint.
And you need to click here on this little button more, select, more entrance effects and preview all
the animations you have here.
I hope this will be okay for you.
Please do so and then you will be able to move forward with animation.
And later on, as we design, we will be able to make a lot of cool animations into our presentation.

--- Effect Options ---

Hey and welcome again.
Now I would like to talk about effect options of our animations and.
This is something which you will learn over the time working with PowerPoint.
As you can see, for example, if I have the simplest animations appear, it has the effect options
grayed out.
We have nothing to change here.
But for example, if I select something like Fly in the effect, options become available and we have
two types of effect options.
We have this button with effect options and we can manually go inside the animation.
Since this is a fly in animation with the effect options, I can adjust from which side it comes in
from the top side from left, and depending on the animation you've selected, you either have or have
not.
Those effect options.
If you go, for example, to the floating animation like I did here, we have another effect Options
float up and float down and you can wonder why did the Microsoft developers not give us float from left
Float from right?
Well, that's why I'm telling that PowerPoint is not the perfect animation software We have to work
with what's available apart from the effect options which we have here.
We can also double click on the animation in the animation pane to get a few more advanced options.
As I double click, I have my timing options, which is the same which we have here.
We have the effect options because we can add a sound when this thing appears.
We have also a few basic sounds here in PowerPoint like applause and a few other stupid ones.
And we can select what should happen with this object.
After the animation plays.
We can, for example, hide after animation.
I could select okay, And after animation, this object would be hidden.
Well, it isn't the most useful function, but it's possible to get an animation and dim this object
afterwards.
You could say We can do the same by clicking on add animation and clicking.
Disappear or fade.
Yes, of course we can.
This is just another way of doing it.
Let me go back here.
Here we have only the normal timing options, but here we additionally have a repetition.
We can repeat this animation like three times select.
Okay?
And you can see it looks a bit different on the chart.
This represents the loop.
How long one loop will take In this case, this would now animate like this three times.
You can again say that's not the best option, but it's possible to make something like that in PowerPoint
and that's super important.
We have also text animation options.
I like to speak about text to you in the next lesson for here.
For this very lesson, I'd like you to at least search for 1 or 2 animations which have effect options.
Basically, it would be best for you if you would click split and check it out.
Wipe and check it out.
Just get familiar with those animations.
Just check what is here and you will know a bit more how to approach animation later on.
When we design something.
This is it for this lesson.
In the next one, there will be something super important and interesting, so stay tuned and let's
see each other in the next one.

--- What about text ---

What could be so special about text.
And basically, when it comes to animation, I want you to remember that the faint animation can be
the most powerful animation.
Of course, we have all those crazy animation like zooming in, wiping and whatsoever.
Let me show you what difference text has.
And this is another super PowerPoint trick which not everyone knows.
Okay, Let's say that this is my beautiful text box.
I will even make a few spaces so I have more text to work with before we identified and we achieved
an animation like that.
Here we can click on the text or on the text box we can select Fade and we have another super simple
animation.
Let me make this the first animation and look as I double click here.
You remember I had those few options.
I have the actual effect options, the timing options and the text animation, which applies when I
have a bit more text and a few paragraphs.
Then we can animate the paragraphs kind of separately.
But on the effects tab, I don't know if you noticed we have animate text now.
And that's something beautiful I can animate all at once.
I can animate by word or by letter.
And look how beautiful it looks.
We have also the percentage of the delay between letters.
Maybe let's make this a slow 15% animation.
And look how amazing.
Yes, the animation will be long now, but it's super beautiful.
It's not a simple fight.
Let me go back to effect and select by word.
This will be a bit quicker.
Beautiful.
Maybe too quick for my taste.
I would make the delay to 20%.
Okay.
And what's even more amazing.
Other animations, I believe not all of them, but for example, the WIP animation looks also cool.
A normal WIP animation on the object itself looks pretty bleak, but if I double click here, I go to
my effect animate text for example by letter.
So we see it better select.
Okay.
Did you know that something like that is possible in PowerPoint?
Most of users do not.
So this will be your advantage knowing such animations.
And for this very lesson, obviously your quest will be to add a text box, a big text box.
Click on those animations, open the animation pane, double click here and try to apply text effect
to it.
This is amazing that a normal fade can look much better when it's applied to text.
It's basically the same animation from the same option, but if we adjust its effect, it looks totally
different.
Thanks for listening to this lesson.
I hope this is a good information for you and something new, and I hope we will be able to use that
a lot in our presentations.

--- Animation Pane and Timing ---

I wanted to clear out all topics before we move to the animation pane and its timing.
This is the most crucial part when it comes to designing the animation.
In my opinion, the timeline could be on the bottom side, but on the bottom we have the seconds and
here we can work with how the animations fly into the entire design.
You probably notice this timing tab where each animation, each animation separately has its duration,
which we can extend and its delay, which means how much delay the animation should play.
So for example, on the second mouse click, this animation will not play until two seconds will pass.
We have three types of animation.
We can right click on each animation and select on click, which will be with my mouse, click with
previews, which will start together with the next animation or after previous, which will wait until
the animation finishes and then it will play.
For example, I want to mouse clicks here and the rest should happen immediately afterwards.
I would leave the first mouse click, I would leave the second mouse, click with all other animations.
I will select this animation holding my shift key.
The last animation right click and select with previous.
You can see with previous looks like that.
And if I select after previous.
After.
After, after.
And we have this little line, you can see a line between, for example, this yellow button here,
this line represents the after previous also this little icon informs us that it's after previous,
but I wanted to start it with previous right click with previous.
And my only downside here is that all the animations will happen simultaneously.
What you most often do when you use with previews, you select it, you delay it a bit, you select
it, you delay it a bit, and you could tell now, well, why didn't you don't simply use after previous
because after previous is limiting me to have it exactly after previews.
I want those to overlap but just a tiny bit like that.
So they still start together, but they are a bit delayed again.
DeLay.
Okay.
Like this F5 So first click means the first animation which we had previously, and with the second
click, everything else should happen.
Two seconds passed.
Boom, boom, boom.
Okay.
All those crazy animations.
I know this looks now ugly.
It's completely out of schedule, and everything flies around as it wants.
But this is.
How editing animation in PowerPoint works.
We can also click here, but that's inconvenient.
For example, if I want to select this yellow, sometimes I select this yellow, sometimes I extend
it so it's easier and safer to work with the delay.
You don't have to increment it by a quarter.
I can also press 4.1.
That's no problem.
You can move it later, you can move it earlier.
This is just animation editing, but you can see PowerPoint sometimes resets those animations.
So it's really difficult because I have selected with previous and now since this animation is later,
if I move it down, it also gets later.
So basically it's the simplest.
If you select with previous and you just work with the delays in this tab.
Now your quest for this lesson, I know you may not get everything here now, but don't worry about
that.
As we create real projects, real slides and create real animations for it, everything will become
clear because as you work with that, you slowly learn a few things and then you will be very fluent
when it comes to working with those animations.
Right now, I wanted you to learn the types of animations that they can be moved around, that they
have, their timing, that we have effect options and that's basically it.
We have the play from to preview it.
We have the Previewer also here.
That's basically the same.
And this is how you work with animations, that's all.
So this step isn't complicated.
Okay.
For this lesson, your quest will be obviously to to the edit animations, right click and change their
type, change it to onClick, change it to width previews, change it to after previews.
Then just start the slide and see what happens.
It would be also helpful if you work with the delays and duration to get familiar with all those options.
All right, that's it.
In the next lesson, I'd like to briefly talk about transitions and then I believe we can finally move
forward.

--- Transitions Tab (Slide timing & duration) ---

Since you are already a PowerPoint animation master.
Now I want to briefly touch about transitions.
As you know, transitions are simply transitioning between slides.
I can select new slide, new slide, and depending on the transition on this slide, this is how they
will fade between each other.
Right now, if I select F5, I selected shift F5.
Okay.
Those stupid animations the slides go across.
Okay.
So you see a bit better.
As you can see.
Now the slide simply go between each other.
But if I select this slide, I go to Transitions and I select, for example, Wipe.
And here I select split, boom, boom, boom.
This is how those slides would appear.
Wipe slide.
Super beautiful.
Okay.
And the cool thing here is that on the Transitions tab, we can select two types of transitions.
We can select on our mouse click, which is the most often used because as I end my slide, I present
something or I just want to proceed.
I click my mouse.
But you can select also after five seconds, for example.
Now as I start the slide, as five seconds will pass, it will automatically move forward to the next
slide.
You have no control over that.
Why is that helpful?
You can have pre-record guided presentations or if you export them to video, the video will remember
that this slide should be shown for five seconds.
That's very important, especially if you want to use PowerPoint for creating videos or if you have
perfectly set timings.
Another useful information is that transitions are secondary in the important.
The most important are animations.
For example, if I want to transition the slide after two seconds, what you say?
Will I be able to do that or not?
I'm telling you no until all the animations finish.
Then we have two seconds to fade it.
Let me make it shorter right now.
Animations.
So until those animations finish, for example, let me move the oval to take about five seconds to
play.
I'll go into the slide.
You can see the oval moves for five seconds.
Now only the slight can advance.
It wanted to advance desperately after two seconds, but it had to wait until the last animation will
complete.
Then it could finally transition.
This is basically it when it comes to transitions for your quest in this lesson.
Of course, you will have to create transitions between a few slides and, for example, for slides,
add anything on them like I did here, those super advanced boxes, blue boxes, and I tried a few of
the transitions between them.
Some of them are super cheesy like this one, but okay, they are there in PowerPoint.
We have them since many years, so people need to have them.
But the Flythrough is, for example, much, much better.
Of course the normal fades are great, push wipe, everything looks kind of decent, but you need to
know a few of those transitions in order to also effectively work in PowerPoint and close up your presentation
and make them a bit nicer.
A very nice thing is that once you have a transition established and you want this transition to be
for half a second, you can apply that to all and all slides automatically will get this transition.
All right, this is it for this lesson.
Let's move forward in the next one and start designing practical projects.

--- Design Warmup. Create a "Safe Slide" ---

Hello and welcome.
In the first lesson of the design practice part in this course here, we will work on slide design.
No matter if you want to design videos, if you want to design presentations or you want to get overall
better with graphic design, this section will teach you a lot about working in PowerPoint and overall
getting your designs done.
As you can notice, I have my color scheme here.
This is a simple picture I took.
It's a bit cropped.
I prepared myself a lot of icons just in case, so I have enough to work with.
And of course, those pictures which we are talking about, I have some pictures now, how to start
the presentation, how to start designing.
I would like to show you something which I will call a safe slide and which is a design warm up.
I call a safe slide something.
If I have completely no idea for the design, there's still something I can always make and this will
always look decent.
All right.
At first I'd like you to delete the original boxes, go to your pictures and select a picture which
you like, preferably with a person on one side.
Okay.
This looks very promising.
All right, I'll place this picture on the left side using my save slide concept, I want to press alt
and two and create a very simple rectangle.
Okay.
This rectangle will go from the right side.
To about 80% or 70% of the slide.
Okay, create something like that yourself.
Now I have this object and I want it to be white.
I will go to its format shape, fill, select white.
Of course, we also need to click shape outline, no outline because by default PowerPoint does those
ugly blue outlines.
Okay.
Now I would like this to be a bit cut down because this is a rectangle.
It doesn't kind of look so so designer ish.
So I'll right click here and I'll select edit points.
I will take the upper point.
And I'll just drag it over to the right side.
Exactly.
Something like that.
And we do not need more.
You can see this already looks promising, having the rulers open.
I know that this is the end of the slide.
Now, this person is too far on the right side.
I want to take this person, hold my shift key and try to position the person kind of in the middle
of this part of the slide.
I can see I'm far above the slide now, just in order so I know where the slide ends because it's better
for visuals.
I'll go to format, I'll go to crop and I'll crop this image to the end of the slide.
Okay?
Then I click crop again and I have the first part of my slide prepared.
Okay.
Alt one and create a text box for the title.
Awesome title.
I will click on this box and I will change the font to Montserrat.
I definitely want this to be bigger and eventually also bold it because this is my awesome title.
Now I can have more text boxes here or more icons here with my colors and that's the beautiful part.
Let me select three icons like this Note this circle and this pencil or this drawing board.
I don't know what this is, Ctrl C, Ctrl V, I'll place them here and now comes the advantage.
Oh, sorry.
Now comes the advantage of having vector icons.
My advantage here is that I can.
Oh, that's so hard.
You need to click on the icon.
You need to click shift.
Yeah.
And look how difficult it is to select the icons.
That's the little problem when working in PowerPoint.
Okay.
I always select the background.
That's also a downside of what I made here.
And I want to select this color.
I go to format, shape, fill, eyedropper.
Do we want this presentation to be red?
Or do we want this presentation to be blue?
Let me maybe start with this red, because I really like this, this deep color.
And right now I'll just click here.
Control C, Control V Control C control V.
Ctrl C, Ctrl V, but obviously this font should be smaller and different.
Shift click here, shift click here, and in my case I'll change the font to my router.
I'll grab some Lorem ipsum text and now this would be a matter of making everything precise as you remember.
For example, I want to justify all those boxes, not this box, justify it, maybe make them a bit
smaller because they were too big in my opinion, and now I would need to place everything properly.
I can select them like that.
Press Ctrl, G, press like that, Ctrl g press like that, Ctrl G.
Now shift, click click format, align and distribute them vertically so I'll know that I have equal
spaces between them.
This would be your first design practice creating a slide with icons and image and overall working with
all the tools we already know.
And in the next slide we will try to create a consistent presentation and a few interesting slides.

--- Slide 1. Title ---

I'm revisiting the font options and I went to Google fonts.
And on the left bottom side, you can compare two fonts together.
And in my opinion, I found that Roboto in black and Latino in regular together work great.
At first I want to use and create a title slide.
Let's do that together.
We will definitely use an image for that.
And I was thinking something like something like this because this gives us much freedom or something
like this or a city is also great for for those title backgrounds.
I'll place that in the design.
I'll make that bigger.
I'll position that properly.
I'll go to crop and I'll crop that to my slide.
Okay.
I want to make sure now that the image fits.
Okay.
We still see the sun.
I'll click crop.
This is the background, but I want to click on this image.
I want to select color and I want to take away its color because I would like to overlay it with one
of my colors.
So I'll select this second option here, which is grayscale.
All right, then I go to Alt to rectangle and create a rectangle above the entire design.
You can see that's totally ugly now, but don't worry, we can right click, we can select format,
shape, we can go to fill, and we want to select a color eyedropper.
This one I can use the transparency and see what happens.
I could even select gradient, delete a few gradients and select eyedropper.
The first color click here Select Eyedropper, second color.
This seems to look okay.
Now I want to change the direction to from left to right because I wanted the colors to be like this
because we have the tree and the sun on the right side.
Click on the first color transparency.
Click on the second color.
Even more transparency.
You can adjust that, but I believe we have a really nice color scheme.
Okay, I click on it once again and in the format tab I make sure I have select outline.
No outline.
Okay.
Perfect.
Alt one my text box.
What I wanted to say here our design.
Well, that's not much isn't it?
Make it in the middle.
Make the text white and select our black font.
I told you I will decide for the Roboto font Roboto.
But I want to make sure that from this font, where do we have it?
I wanted the black one.
Okay.
I want it bigger.
Our design.
That seems interesting, but it still lacks something.
So I want a smaller box on the bottom Ctrl C, Ctrl V.
Okay.
It's always hard to select and better.
Better design control A and we can use a shortcut control and the left bracket key to make this smaller.
Okay.
I make it on the bottom and you know that the second font I wanted to use was Latino, but not black
and normal Latino font.
Still, I want it to be smaller and maybe the white color doesn't work so perfect now.
So I'll go to the colors and I'll make it a bit gray just so it's a bit darker or red.
Okay.
This red seems to work fine.
Do I really want them to be uppercase?
I want to select maybe sentence case, maybe better presentations will look a bit better.
And on top I could eventually select an icon which would complement this entire design.
You know that I have so many icons that I can use them anywhere I want.
So I take this rocket, I make sure it's in the right place, and I make sure that I use the proper
color.
I have my format, shape options opened so I can select just eyedropper.
And do we want it white?
Not in particular, maybe red.
And as I see it, I believe we should make a space here.
We should make it like that.
Okay.
The red on the bottom, the icon somewhere on top of it.
And we can decide if we made the colors properly.
Okay.
Maybe the icon could be a bit bigger.
The red overlaps a bit.
So I will click on that and I'll place the red on the right side and the blue on the left side.
Will that look better?
Well, it definitely does.
I would even maybe get rid of the red or just change the angle so we have less red.
All right.
I'll make this even more transparency.
30%.
This one.
Yeah.
Let's leave this read as some of the read can be here.
All right.
And this would be our title slide.
Now, your quest obviously will be to create something similar in PowerPoint, a picture in the background,
an overlay and a few boxes and eventually an icon.

--- Slide 2. Exciting Grid Picture ---

Okay.
Welcome in slide number two.
We need to create something which will be able to often copy create a new slide.
I will delete everything and I will come back to take my text and the secondary text.
I'll go to this slide and I'll press control V.
Now I need to select the first one and I need to select maybe the dark blue color.
This could be like the main color of our presentation and this could be a complementary item, maybe
to a very light gray like the tagline of this slide.
I'll click on it.
I'll justify it to the left side.
So align left and with my control and left bracket key, I'll make that a bit smaller.
Okay.
Since we selected letter for our text, I'll Ctrl C and Ctrl v it.
I'll acknowledge that this is text by a hashtag.
I'll ctrl B and I'll make it bigger.
Okay.
This is just supposed to be an icon.
Perfect.
Now I'll copy the text.
Once again, you can see I'm working on the items I already have and now we need a text box.
I would like to come to the first slide because I have the Lorem ipsum copied here and I would like
to take a few lines out of here.
All right.
And this is a normal, solid, dark background.
Just what we need to do.
We need to select litho font for it.
I will justify the text.
I'll take a brief look at the other letter fonts.
Hairline light.
Well, light is also cool.
Medium semibold thin.
Well, maybe the light one.
The light one can be useful.
So let's have it somewhere here.
And this would be like the base layout of our design.
The base layout of our standard.
Very standard slide.
Well, not our design.
Like here comes the title.
I would like our presentation to use a lot of images and I will definitely need to select more and download
more images.
As an example, I want to, for example, select this one.
I'm not entirely sure that this will look cool, but I want to show you what I'm about to do here.
Crop Just a quick crop and now comes the fun design part.
If you have no idea how to make this more interesting.
Alt to select rectangle, let me work with such rectangles.
Format.
Shape.
Fill.
White.
Shape.
Outline.
No outline.
Shift.
Click.
Rotate them Well.
45 degrees.
All right.
Maybe it's a bit too big.
It could be a bit longer.
And let me start the design Ctrl C, Ctrl V.
Boom.
Ctrl C.
Ctrl v.
Boom Ctrl C.
Ctrl V and boom.
Now all will depend on the picture we use, but look.
What can be achieved with such simple things.
Now, it maybe doesn't look amazing, but wait a second.
I won't again.
Old too.
And I want to get rid of this part as well.
This will be the entire customization of this slide and I will select a suitable object.
And of course, you can always rely on those rectangles because rectangles can be simply turned over.
Do you remember what we learned previously?
Click here.
Format Painter Boom.
I don't have to do it from scratch.
Right click send to back.
So it's sent entirely to the back and click on this image right click send to back.
Watch what happens.
And I believe this part is should be also cut down.
Shift F5 to preview what we achieved.
Well, my screen is a bit bigger so you don't see the right side, but I can see that those lines,
I make them too big and here it doesn't look consistent.
Take this one, Ctrl C, Ctrl v, place it here.
Make it like that.
Okay, so it's evenly cut.
You want to have even spaces here everywhere.
And maybe I'll make those a bit smaller.
I'll go to format and I want the width to be 0.3 everywhere.
I'll make sure it's equal one last time you want here, send to back and on the picture send to back.
Now every time I want to change the picture, for example, I would like to have this one.
No problem.
I delete the old picture.
I place this send to back and I just crop it from the left side.
Okay.
Like this.
She's here.
Crop.
Boom.
We have a completely different design and I just need to make sure that I use the crop properly.
Well, here.
No problem.
It could be a bit wider.
That's really no problem.
And this picture isn't perfect for that because the face is invisible.
Now the face should be revealed.
So I've selected a wrong picture.
I can see that you maybe think, what the heck is going on here?
What's what is he doing?
But look on the left side.
Don't you like the look and feel of this thumbnail?
And if something is lacking to you, like for me, I lack the red color and I lack something on the
bottom.
In my opinion, this slide would be done.
And if you don't like what you see here, you can always click on this object, right click edit point.
Like you could add a point here and simply make it like that.
Now it's a bit more cut off and you will see perfectly where this slide is finalized.
Again, add point, make this smaller, add point, make this smaller and okay, now the slide looks
a bit better.
I'll close this design here.
I want you to become as good in designing as possible.
So watch this slide.
Try to create something like that.
Eventually rewatch the lesson and I'll try to make some simple slower slides in the upcoming lessons.

--- Slide 3. Connected Picture ---

Okay.
How to make the slide more ordinary.
Click a new slide.
Once again, I'll copy the title and the tagline because I think that's essential to our design.
This time I'll put it on the right side.
Okay.
I'll make sure it's aligned to right.
And I'll as well align this to right.
Press alt to and select another shape.
This time we will select the rounded rectangle and let's create something like that.
But we want to up the roundness because this would be too blocky.
I want a roundness like this.
Ctrl C Ctrl V.
You want a few of them?
Maybe make them equal.
Ctrl c.
Ctrl v.
Ctrl c.
Ctrl v.
Okay, This last one could be again, bigger or maybe control C control V, the first one.
Select all of them and we will fill that with a picture.
But before we do, we definitely we have to press Ctrl G.
If you don't press Ctrl G, you can also right click group and select grouping.
I want to fill this with a picture.
And I will show you a picture or texture fill.
Select file.
I have my pictures, and maybe this time we select something like that.
You can see if we have it grouped.
The pen goes like that.
But if we right click Group Ungroup.
The photo tries to be placed in each design separately.
So control Z and you have something like that.
It's totally great if it's grouped.
Now, look at that.
It seems like a completely custom design and I forgot about something.
I should click here.
Go to format.
No outline.
All right.
Now it looks perfect.
Maybe the picture isn't perfect, but it looks okay.
The downside here is that we can't use the cropping tools now to make this light a bit different.
I'll once again copy my color scheme because I want to make sure that we use the red one and since this
is rounded, I press alt I press two and I select a circle.
Maybe you select two icons here, Ctrl C, Ctrl v make the first one format shape fill red shape outline,
no outline home format painter and paint this format over.
Now I can place white icons here.
I'll go to my icon slide and this seems interesting and this planet seems okay.
Ctrl C ctrl v.
I'll place them here and for their fill.
I want them to be white.
I want them to be white like this perfectly in this, trying to make it perfectly in the circle like
this and maybe just taking a small description.
I'll take this box because I don't want to always create it from scratch and make it a small description
of this item.
Okay.
We would have a small description here, a small description here alt to another rounded rectangle shape.
I would like to have a filled box here.
Rounded, go to format, select its color eyedropper.
The darker one.
Okay, this will.
Well, do I need to add something here?
I could end it like that to make it a little underline.
Or I could, for example, create a fill out of it by making it a bit smaller and selecting the next
color in line shape fill eyedropper like a skill set or something.
You can notice how interesting that becomes.
Of course, again, format no outline that's so annoying, but you can see how easy it is to create
a progress bar like that.
A small progress bar.
Those control G control G because I believe they are too big.
Those should be smaller.
Ctrl G on the progress bar, Ctrl C, Ctrl v, a progress bar here.
And I believe we created a design which looks consistent.
I could even make a third one because this somehow would look better.
Try to place everything a bit better because right now it looks a bit clunky After positioning the items
a little bit and changing the picture, everything looks more clean, especially when I see the thumbnail.
Everything is more balanced, looks more natural, and I'll stick with that for this slide.
This is it.
Try to create a similar slide, especially this right side where we produce the icons and the progress
bar.
Because this might be useful knowledge when you create a slide only with that.

--- Slide 4. Picture with Lines ---

OK, chcę powoli zamknąć pierwszą część tego projektu szablonu, a ja jeszcze raz stworzę coś z obrazkiem,
będzie to coś podobnego.
To znaczy, będziemy korzystać z pól tekstowych, ponieważ te mogą być naprawdę przydatne i wypełnić nasz slajd.
Wybiorę nowy slajd, bom starszy, wszystko, bo chcę go stworzyć od zera i umieszczę
te podstawowe pola tekstowe, może usunę ikony.
I jak ja chcę tu postępować?
Jako tło wykorzystam obrazek, a powoli kończy mi się zapas obrazków, więc być może będę musiała pobrać więcej,
ale to nie problem.
OK, weź to zdjęcie w prawo.
Kliknij i wyślij go do tyłu.
Czyli mamy tekst z przodu teraz możemy wybrać stary, żeby wstawić kształt i może wykorzystam
ten trik, bo to wygląda obiecująco i ma taką fajną opcję, bo już wygląda jak gotowy slajd.
Więc umieszczę to w ten sposób.
A idealną rzeczą tutaj jest to, że mogę dostosować ten róg.
Więc w zależności od tego ile mamy tekstu, tyle możemy uciąć z tego rogu.
Pozwolę sobie przejść do formate Shapefile i wybrać biały, oczywiście kształt lub brak obrysu.
I po raz kolejny musiałbym wysłać wszystko do tyłu.
Teraz wydaje mi się to czerwonym światłem z może ta część jest trochę nudna, aby uczynić ją mniej nudną.
A ponieważ jest to taki punktowy styl i umieść to niżej, więc widz, jeśli zobaczy to światło,
co natychmiast widzi środek slajdu chwyta uwagę.
Więc tutaj chciałbym stworzyć może trochę więcej czegoś właśnie w tym miejscu, żeby zasłonić obraz,
bo obraz teraz wygląda trochę pusto.
OK, teraz będziemy mieli kilka kroków i po każdym kroku powinieneś wstrzymać wideo i odtworzyć to, co
robię.
Chciałbym mieć tutaj jakieś linie, więc naciskam stary do i wybieram nasz znajomy prostokąt.
Proszę stworzyć prostokąt.
Kolor nie ma znaczenia i powinien to być taki wąski prostokąt.
Obrócę to wszystko w prawo.
I postaram się, aby był on jak najbardziej zbliżony do tego wiersza.
Może dobieram kolor filaretu shape, żeby był lepiej widoczny.
Robię je trochę większe.
Podchodzę bliżej i zaczynam obrót.
Obserwuję na dolnej stronie.
Obserwuję z górnej strony.
I to wydaje się całkiem równe.
OK, teraz zrobię to bliżej, to znaczy krócej, i teraz będę sterował C, sterował V i umieszczę je bardzo blisko siebie,
sterował C, sterował V, i spróbuję tak wypełnić resztę slajdu.
Po ich wypełnieniu proszę o wykreślenie co drugiego z nich zaczynając od pierwszego,
bo chcę, żeby były tu równe spacje, ok.
Drugi krok, chciałbym, żeby poszli równo z tą linią.
Więc jeśli masz PowerPoint 2013 lub 2016, będziesz miał opcje połączone i opcje fragmentu.
Nie musisz tego robić, ale możesz to zrobić ręcznie, regulując ich długość.
Jeśli jednak nie chcesz robić tego ręcznie, mogę pokazać Ci inny trik.
Proszę kliknąć na obiekt, kontrolka C, kontrolka V i obrócić ten obiekt.
Chcę mieć pewność, że ten obiekt będzie teraz idealnie wyrównany z tą linią.
OK, zrobiłem to za duże.
Pozwólcie, że spróbuję to tak wyrównać tutaj.
OK, nie musi być w 100 procentach dokładny, ale chcę, żeby był całkiem przyzwoity, OK, i powiększ ten
obiekt.
Widzisz, że to jest linia, gdzie będziemy ciąć, jeśli masz zaznaczony ten czerwony obiekt naciśnij shift
i kliknij na bum, bum, bum, bum, bum, trzymając shift.
Kliknij na wszystkie.
Teraz musisz przejść do formatu.
I właśnie dlatego mówiłem, że trzeba mieć PowerPointa 2013 lub 2016, bo potrzebujemy opcji fragmentu.
Klikniesz na opcję fragment i teraz możesz usunąć ten duży obiekt, usunąć te mniejsze obiekty.
I mamy tu idealnie równą linię.
To idzie naprawdę dobrze.
Teraz naszą ostatnią regulacją byłoby zaznaczenie tych kształtów, przejście do formularza i kształtu dla białego kształtu, starej
linii, bez starej linii.
I to by było na tyle.
Jeśli chcesz być super precyzyjny, możesz również wyciąć dolną stronę.
W tym celu powinieneś wybrać prostokąt.
Możesz stworzyć prostokąt w ten sposób.
Potem znowu, z przesunięciem wybierz wszystko oprócz tła i teraz prawdopodobnie zmieni również
kolor.
Więc to był mój błąd, że kazałem im czekać zanim to zrobiłem.
Ale w zasadzie skończyłem z krokiem numer dwa, jeśli chciałbyś mieć te linie.
Również na górnej stronie, możesz kliknąć na to.
Można kontrolować C, kontrolować V, ale widać, że to tu nie pasuje.
Musiałbym kliknąć prawym przyciskiem myszy formę kształtu, przejść do trzeciego pola do opcji rozmiaru i otworzyć rozmiar, ponieważ
potrzebujemy wysokości skali i szerokości skali.
Mamy tutaj sto procent i muszę go obrócić w lewą stronę i muszę się upewnić, że jest
w stu procentach OK.
Teraz wiem, że obie są równe.
Jeśli mam go w ten sposób, możesz po prostu kliknąć tutaj, wybrać swój shift, obrócić to idealnie,
umieścić go tutaj i voila, to jest to.
Jeśli chodzi o ten slajd, mam nadzieję, że jesteś w stanie powielić wszystkie kroki i miałeś frajdę z projektowania tego
ze mną.
Pracujmy nad ciekawszymi projektami.

--- Slide 5. Our Services ---

Okay.
We've started a new section which will be called Services.
How could we start?
At first I would definitely like to borrow a few of those text boxes.
One shift, click next shift, click next.
And I want a few of those text boxes to be here.
Now I can start my design.
I'll make that smaller because I just want a small description here.
And definitely the text is also too big, so I'll try to make the text maybe even centered.
And here on the bottom I want three of those text boxes because I'd like to display three services.
Now how to make sure that we have equal spacing between them.
You know it, right?
Shift.
Format align and distribute them horizontally.
They are aligned to selected objects distribute horizontally.
So the middle one is now perfectly set.
Okay.
And now they are in the middle.
This would be one example of stating how perfect our service is.
Align align center.
Okay.
And this also home align center.
We have to decide if we want it to stay red, but I think this is pretty okay now.
The design is pretty empty, but I would like to use our color scheme and I've selected a few new images
because I wanted to have a few more images and I think something work related like this or like this
should be perfectly okay.
I'll make the image bigger so it covers the entire screen and of course I'll go to format and crop it
to a smaller picture.
I want something like that in the middle.
Well, this is kind of small, so I need to fit the picture.
I think the hand will be important, the keyboard crop and perfect.
We have an image like that because the image is kind of empty and kind of without feeling I would need
to borrow the overlay.
We already did.
I want to borrow the overlay and then I'll try to work with the colors we have.
Okay.
This overlay is really beautiful and it's great that you can simply use it by copying and pasting it.
And now we need to decide if everything is distributed properly.
In my opinion, those text boxes take a bit much of our space, so I'll make them a bit smaller.
This a bit higher.
This is all because I would like this image to be a bit bigger.
I can go back to crop.
I want this image to be a bit bigger so we have some space.
This overlay is no problem because I can always resize this overlay.
Instead of having that here, I'll Ctrl C and ctrl v it and place it here.
Service like service one, service two and service three.
I think the service looks a bit better.
And what we lack, we lack some icons.
I would like to press alt and two and select a circle, maybe three big circles for our services and
those circles would follow our color scheme, Ctrl C, Ctrl v.
Okay.
In my opinion I made them a bit too big and what's great I can with shift select everything holding
shift, I can make them smaller, but if I additionally press Ctrl you can see I can make all of them
a bit smaller at once.
Perfect.
Now I need to select the first one format shape fill and select our colors Boom format, shape, fill
eyedropper and select the next color shape, fill eyedropper and boom.
No outline.
No outline, no outline.
And I'm sure that those colors follow well along.
I'll click on the gradient and I believe this red could be also this blue because the red somehow doesn't
work on this overlay here.
Now this would be a matter of having some fun with them.
Maybe.
Maybe this time we want some overlay.
I select all three shape outline.
Wait, like maybe three points.
Shape outline white.
Well, this white doesn't work here, so I'll simply recolor this box to red.
Wow.
Now it's really better.
Then I can select the line here so alt to a normal line and try to connect the line.
One object with the next object.
Select those two lines.
Shape outline white.
Wait, we had like three points here and there's a great connection.
Of course I would need to connect it a bit better.
And this slide starts to become viable.
I added a few text boxes.
In my opinion, this slide is finished.
If you want to reconsider anything, you can simply select it, resize it, change it as you want.
Now try to create a slide like this on your own.
And in my opinion, this is a great design about our services.

--- Slide 6. Overlapping Circles ---

This light can really represent anything.
If you need to change this light, you can simply delete anything.
You can change the overlay, you can change the circles.
And since they are connected with this line, the line will go together with it.
And in a really few mouse clicks you can create a completely, completely different slide which will
suit the design you are making.
Look at that, a few clicks and a completely new slide.
Okay, I'll revert my changes and I'll make another slide like that which can be used for anything.
Right click new slide, delete copy over those elements.
Boom.
Super fast designing and this is it.
Good job you've created the slide.
Now, of course we will create a few things more.
I want to show you another.
Well, can I call it a trick?
I want you to always keep in mind the background, because using the background can make some unique
designs.
Let me press alt to and select a circle.
A simple oval created pretty big like that.
Or maybe I overdone it.
I'll make it a bit smaller format.
We also need our color scheme and this time we will work differently.
We will need the outline.
Let's make the outline red at first.
Let's go to right click format shape in the fill and in the line options make the width pretty big.
I want the width to be really big and you will see in a moment why.
Okay.
Now you can see that I have a red outline and if I make this outline too white, we don't really see
it with we can cover up one image with another image and they look as they would be connected.
You can see what I'm doing with that.
I have the same outline color as the background color and now they get a completely different look.
Okay, I'll select both of them.
I maybe want them to be a bit bigger because I want to place a picture in them.
I want them to create a design like this, the entire middle of my slide.
And how many of them do I want?
Well, I want maybe four or maybe five.
Let's stick with four.
Let's select all of them and let's place them in the middle of the slide.
I would require four of those text boxes because I want to have one text box under each of them.
Now, it would be a matter of placing everything properly, align selected objects, distribute them
horizontally.
Now I'm sure that they are distributed properly and now I could work with those services.
At first I would click on this object.
I would go to the fill options and I would select picture or texture fill.
Since I have some pictures prepared, I'll just click on them and we can still use format, color and
desaturate the pictures so they will all look equal.
And the last one picture file.
I would select a different picture.
Now, obviously I would need to click crop and maybe the pictures are a bit distorted.
I would need to crop and properly place the pictures.
This will take a bit of time, but hey, if you want the design to be really well done, you can take
your time.
All right.
And make those little adjustments.
I really like that we are able to use the grayscale because this makes our entire design consistent
across all of those icons.
The last thing I would create in the middle would be an icon.
I would select those icons.
I would come back.
I will make sure that everything is properly distributed.
I would click on the red or on any color you have.
And again, line solid line and I would make the width bigger.
Now, this would be a pretty unique design.
Of course.
Well, this is too small because I want to have a bit more of the color.
Given the size of this object and make the width a bit smaller and basically touch it here, okay.
This would be about the design I want to achieve.
Maybe going to format, shape, fill and selecting the different color.
Now it looks a bit more real.
I did change the icons.
I select all of those objects and I press ctrl G to have them consistent if I need to shift them around
or for example, spread them a bit, it's no problem.
I can do this with one mouse click.
In the end, if everything is properly placed, this light will look like that.
Now try to recreate it on your own and use those interesting circles with their outlines.

--- Slide 7. Simplistic bullet points ---

Okay.
We are making everything pretty complicated.
But what about very simple slides which could be used if you really need to just quickly communicate
something?
I can give you another idea.
For example, we have five colors here.
You could select that.
You could write hashtag one or simply one and a dot or just one.
It really doesn't matter.
Just make a big number out of it.
Close that down.
Well, maybe I made it a bit too big.
I press alt two, I select a shape.
And what shape do we want?
Maybe we want this shape because the great thing is that you can shift it and be careful.
Because if I press alt two and I select it here somewhere, here we have the same object, but this
is a flowchart flowchart data and this is a parallel.
Blah, blah blah blah, blah.
I can't even say this word.
It's too difficult to pronounce for me.
But if we select that one, we can do nothing.
But this one can be changed.
As you can see, where I'm heading with this is to create very simple boxes, shape, fill eyedropper
and use the color scheme.
I already have shape outline, of course, no outline.
I would make this smaller to the size of this letter.
Okay, well, it doesn't have to be perfect because I want to make it pretty interesting.
Shift click Ctrl g one.
Two, three.
And very quickly, we have a super interesting design and we can stay with this color.
We can change each color separately.
For example, selecting the eyedropper and this one selecting the eyedropper and this one.
Right now I'm having some doubts about the color scheme I've selected because this beige one doesn't
perfectly fit here.
But, you know, we don't have to use all those colors.
We can also create our own colors.
Let me see.
Maybe I'm discrediting this color too much.
It looks fairly decent.
And for the last color.
Well, since I'm changing the color over and over again, I would select more fill colors.
And what would work with that?
We have some blues, maybe a yellow or an orange.
Maybe.
Let's go for an orange.
And the orange should have also a darker tone.
Like those colors in my opinion looks average, but it's it should get the job done.
This way we could communicate another five things on our slide in a very simple and consistent fashion.
Maybe let's call it service here and maybe the red one.
Well, that's a bit too much of coloristic.
This is why I will go for this blue or for a black one.
Text fill.
Well, this blue.
Also let me select a simple black color because I want everything to be cleaner on this slide.
Ctrl c, Ctrl v, Ctrl c, Ctrl v.
You can see I'm just duplicating those objects.
And now it's a matter of shifting those letters around.
Those icons can be placed above each other or they can stay like they are.
I would need just to select everything Ctrl, G, Ctrl g.
Grouping is also very important when it comes to animation because if you animate something, if it's
grouped, it animates together.
If it's ungrouped, you would need to select an animation for this, for this, for this and for this.
Now they are grouped already together, so I would only have to animate the letters and the text, but
this way it looks a bit more like consistent and easy to edit if I need to place them somewhere else,
maybe I should place three on the bottom and two on the top side here.
But you know, I've made it like that and I'll stand by my decision.
If we create other slides like total freestyle, you duplicate any slide, you delete like the half
of the things you have, you come back, you select that and you see if this fits here.
Maybe.
Maybe you can place it on the bottom.
And right now, for me, it looks better than the services we had.
So it's very useful to have such slides.
And if you create something new, look how easy it is to make a slide more appealing, more consistent,
more appealing, a bit different.
The design is a bit different.
So this is something to remember when you create slides and for your lesson, your quest will be to
create a slide like that.
We also did such hardcore and difficult slides that this one should be enjoyable, easy and very simple
to create for you.

--- Slide 1. Bouncy Text ---

Okay, we have to start somewhere.
So in this slide we will prepare this simple animation for our title.
Now this section has its good side and its bad sides because the good side is that animation is super
enjoyable in PowerPoint and is made very quickly.
The downside can be here that it's a bit tedious because you basically repeat the steps each time you
make approximately the same things over and over again.
I want to avoid questions how to animate slides to how to animate.
Slide seven.
I will simply animate all slides one by one and you will decide if you want to watch and work together
with me or you would like to skip some slides.
I will of course encourage you design each slide with me, try to animate each slide with me and I'll
of course start with our title slide.
When trying to apply animations, you need to consider how many elements you want to animate.
Obviously on this slide I want to animate those three elements.
The background is okay, it doesn't need any animations, so let's hop on.
Let's click on the first object.
Yeah.
And that's the problem in PowerPoint.
Sometimes objects are hard to select.
I'll go to animations and open up my animation pane.
Those animations should start automatically.
And for the rocket, let's select a fly in because this is a rocket.
And here, right off the bat, I want to show you a cool trick.
Of course I want this rocket to fly in from left side.
So effect options from left and right.
Now the animation is a bit boring.
But the great thing here is that on the fly and animations as well, you can double click here, you
can select effect and you can smooth, smooth and bounce.
Smoothing makes the animation like start slower and end slower because right now we have one motion.
If we smooth the end to half a second, it starts quicker and then fades a bit off.
But the animation was super quick, so let's make it one second.
Now you can see it already looks better.
But for that animation, I didn't want such a big smooth.
I wanted to have a small bounce.
Now it resets the smooth because you can have either bounce or smooth.
Look at the bounce.
I want the bounce to be about half a second and it bounces a little bit at the end.
That's something very fun in PowerPoint and right click select with previews.
This way the animation will start automatically and since we are flying in from left, I would consider
making the same for those ones fly in.
Effect options from left longer right click with previous and delay it by half a second.
Right now I have two animations.
Boom.
As you can see, I should adjust this animation as well, so I'll double click on this animation.
I'll go to its effect.
We have also those text animations, but this would look very bad because the first word and the second
word would fly in separately.
We want a small bounce as well, maybe 0.5.
The same way.
All right.
Now, everything will happen after each other.
So since I decided to make the same animations, basically, and now you can see where it gets repetitive
because we are basically doing each time the same thing over and over again.
But it's still enjoyable.
I do like to make those animations.
For the last part, click on the second text, select animation painter and paint this over for this
one because I believe it will look really well if we have the slight animated like that.
As I see it now, I don't like the flying.
I would select both text boxes and I would select wipe instead of the previous.
So wipe from left duration can be 0.75.
Right click with previous.
Always make sure they are like that.
DeLay it a bit, delay it a bit and play from okay.
Play from the first.
Too slow.
I'll take away the delay.
I will take away the delay here and now.
This should look perfect.
Now you can see the continuation once the slide plays.
So the rocket comes in and the text fades nicely in afterwards.
And since I selected Wipe here, most likely I will select Wipe as well later.
Okay.
The first lesson was the longest because I wanted to explain you everything.
Now create your animations on slide number one and we see each other in slide number two.

--- Slide 2. Strips Ownage ---

For the second slide, we will make those simple text animations, but they still look awesome and we
will then introduce the rest of the text also with a very pleasant animation.
Okay.
Hey, animating slide number two and slide number two.
Obviously we want to animate those elements because definitely we don't want to animate that.
That's custom made, totally custom.
As you can see, everything is prepared, especially to work with that.
And how do I want this?
At first I would like to group that control G because this should fly in together.
This can be separate, this can be separate.
And those icons.
Oh, I have them at once.
Well, that's pretty okay.
Now, as you remember, previously we made the text with WIP and I would like to make an overall animation
for the title.
Maybe the fade with a nice fade by word.
I want to see how this will work with this text.
So I've selected both text boxes.
I did click Fade and now I can double click on this animation.
I will go to effect and I will animate by word or by letter.
Let's select by letter, maybe 7%.
Wow, that's really beautiful.
And I can't imagine a more beautiful animation.
We have so many animations, but just look at that.
Does that seem right to you?
Well, even if we select, for example, by letter, this will look totally crazy.
Well, it is something unique.
I will give this animation that it's pretty unique that we can do something like that.
But.
I can't wrap my head around those animations because they don't look as cool as the fate animations.
Totally ugly.
I'm sorry.
I will have to go with fate because I want to be as clean and as professional as possible.
If this would be a business presentation or something for your online marketing lessons, I would rather
want you to create those fade animations.
But keep in mind, nearly any animation can be set to effect and animate by letter.
Okay, we were at 7% and I believe this did look awesome.
So I will start with previews.
So they will start automatically.
I will delay the second line a bit.
That's just amazing.
I want to have those animations exactly like that.
And for the text, for the main text, we could select this little button, select more entrance effects,
and eventually preview if there would be something better.
I know that the strips looks really good and I would like to animate it from top to bottom, so I'll
select that.
Just out of curiosity, I will select a few more because sometimes those animations look well with some
elements, but here we won't reinvent the wheel.
Oh no, that's this would be okay.
But no, let's select the strips because it goes from corner to corner since this is like skewed as
well.
I would like to follow this, this style on this slide.
Oh, I had it here.
As I can see it now.
Effect options from right down.
You can see we have it on click.
I want this to happen automatically as well.
Or you can decide that you want it to be animated after you click your mouse, then you just up the
duration and it should stay like that.
Maybe those icons should also animate together With that.
Why not make the same animation go here?
More entrance effects strips and yeah, from right side to left bottom effect options left down.
We have it already properly selected.
I will select with previous I will up the duration because I do not like when the animations happen
super quick.
Like like quarter a second and it's over.
I will delay it a bit and now I press shift F5 to play the slide.
Look, the title comes in, I'm explaining the slide to you and now I would like to proceed to the text
part.
I click my mouse and it beautifully animates onto the slide and I can finally talk about the main topic
of this slide.
That's really a well done animation in my opinion, because we introduce it slowly and we then proceed
to the next part as well very smoothly.
I hope you will have fun animating the slide like that.
As you can see, we have a total of four animations here.

--- Slide 3. Swirly Progress Bars ---

Slate number three will be very simple.
Again, text animation on the top.
Then we will swirl in those progress bars.
I'll teach you how to do this.
Welcome in slide number three animation.
Since we already have the title animated, we can always go back Ctrl, C, Ctrl V.
That's my little trick for the future because if you copy text, the text has already animations on
it.
We can click on the first text, go to animation painter and click here.
We can select the second text, go to animation painter and paint it over here.
Then you just take those text boxes and press delete.
Now you have those animated in like 20s Boom.
Everything is perfectly prepared.
Now when it comes to those bars, how do we want to animate them and let's make something new.
Let's make a maybe a swirl animation on the icon.
We have three elements here, and as you can see, we have the element three time.
So we will basically just repeat those animations.
Let me start with the icon.
Grow and turn.
Yeah, this could be something for us.
More entrance effects.
Where do we have it?
Like grow and turn?
Well, kind of too slow.
I want it to something like a zoom, but I would also like it to rotate.
Do we have something like that here?
Bounce?
No.
Bounce.
These are exciting animations at least so they say.
Spinner Exactly.
This is an animation which I wanted and I don't have to connect to animations because we have something
like that.
Spinner Let's select the spinner.
And this animation is particularly good for icons and definitely we want it to be on click because on
my first mouse click I would like those three items to animate the animation.
Could be, of course, one second long.
Now, as for the text, the text, I don't see any reason why I shouldn't click on this select animation
painter and paint this animation for this text.
They happen together.
That's perfect.
Maybe this could be a bit quicker.
I'll double click here.
I will select effect and instead of by letter, I'll go by word.
I wanted it to be a bit quicker and maybe like 6%.
I want this to be a quick animation.
A swift animation.
All right.
We have this.
You can see the number one.
Number one.
So this is the first click.
And now this bar.
This bar.
Okay.
It's made together.
Yeah, definitely.
It would look weird if this wouldn't be animated.
And definitely I want a wipe from the left side.
And you can see we have those few basic animations and they are basically good for any type of object.
Definitely the wipe is something that you want to use often and definitely I want it to wipe from left
because this is just such an universal animation and it should be with previous the duration.
Half a second is okay, the delay could be a bit bigger.
You can see we did animate all three items.
I want to copy those animations over.
Please tell me if you have it the same way.
So you have the first text animation you click and this entire box beautifully animates.
I really believe those swirl animations.
Give it the fine tuning.
We want it.
And I'll now click animation Painter Paint this over, click animation painter, paint this over and
you can see what happens to the animation.
It has the same delay, it has the same duration.
Now the bar animation painter Boom.
Now the last one I sorry, I wanted to select the second one.
Animation Painter Paint it over.
Animation painter, paint animation painter, paint that over.
And the last one, animation painter paint that over.
This slide is now perfectly prepared for presentation.
Let me show you.
I would explain what I have on this slide.
This picture isn't relevant.
Remember about that?
I want the text and now I would like to show you some progress, which I made on the first part.
I made a progress like that.
Next click that, next click that.
So beautiful.
I really like how we did those animations, so please try.
Now you replicate the steps, replay those animations and make good usage of the animation.
Painter.
You can probably anticipate where I'm going with that.
Yes, you should right click and you should add it to the Quick Access toolbar.
If I'm making those animations, let's go to more commands.
Let's take the animation painter and place it above here.
Now all three will be the animation painter.
Super quick, super efficient.
This is it for slide number three.
We see each other in slide number four.

--- Slide 4. Clean Zoom from Middle ---

Slide number four will have one of the most simple animations because we will just do something different
than we did previously and we will make some zooming in animations from the middle of the slide and
some other fancy elements.
Three animations.
Four animations, even more animations.
I hope it will be simpler here.
And as you can see, this slide really requires no splendid animations.
We have the titles and we have this text box.
But of course, if you would like to learn, Oh, you weren't supposed to see that.
And if you want to learn, no problem, let's create something.
Maybe this time float in.
It can be beautifully floated in and I would like it to float, float down or float.
Float up is okay, I want this to happen automatically.
So I will start with previous right click with previous.
I will select the second animation which is applied to this tagline and I will delay it by 0.75 because
I want this animation to be nearly finished before the tagline comes in.
How will this look?
Oh, and I made a mistake.
This should be first.
This should be second.
So you can just take this animation, grab it over, select the second one and delay it as I see it
now.
Well, those two animations do not work together as good as they should.
So for the second, for the tagline, I will select maybe a simple fade right click with previous duration
up, delay up and let's preview that now.
Horrible.
What am I doing?
So it appears that the float up doesn't work as well as I would like it to, but this is a matter of
making a good animation.
You have to preview everything several times until you have something suitable.
Why don't we use something else for the first one?
Because it appears that the floating doesn't work.
Okay.
The split, the wipe.
And how can I not use the wipe?
It.
It is just the best animation out of them.
Well, okay.
Those are not as bad.
Then I will select the zoom.
I believe the zoom looks as well.
Okay.
Right click with previous play.
All right.
Now, this is something I can accept.
Since I've selected the zoom, I will press control G to group them and I'll once again select the zoom.
You can see we have some effect options here.
I'll click on it.
Slide center or object Center.
Now, this won't make a big change.
If I select Object Center, it zooms in here.
If I select Slide Center, it zooms in from the right side and this looks a bit better.
Make the duration one second.
We don't need any delay because we are anyway clicking.
So shift f five.
And if I click my mouse or keyboard, the text zooms in as well.
We are done with this slide.
Three simple animations that are a bit different than the previous animations.
But why not?
We wanted to make something different and make it more interesting for you.
You did learn a few new animations.
You did work around in PowerPoint and now try to create those animations on your own.

--- Slide 5. Connected Lines Love ---

Slide number five gives us so much space because not only we can animate the text, but we can animate
each element separately.
I will teach you how to make an animation like that.
With each click, we reveal another thing.
Oh yeah, we are getting in those interesting slides and I can skip, for example, animating this top
side because you already know that I can, for example, Ctrl C, Ctrl v it and just press click on
here alt three, boom, click on the next one, alt three boom and delete that because this is the main
part and this will be something interesting.
How do we have it here?
Okay, this is separate.
The text is separate.
So I want to Ctrl G, Ctrl g shift pick.
Control those lines.
Well, I'll decide if I want to animate them as well.
At first I would like this to maybe come in, like from the corner towards bottom.
And as you maybe remember, we had already animations like that.
Select here, select more entrance effects and maybe the strips.
Yeah, they really look perfect.
Effect options right down.
So this is my first click with the mouse and I want something else to happen.
Maybe this text should also come in together with this circle, so I will what I need to do, I need
to again select this alt three.
And in case you don't remember, all three is now animation painter.
It's this button.
I'll click on it.
Okay.
This is one group because I did right click and selected add to quick Access Toolbar so I can quicker
animate this entire presentation later on.
If I don't use it anymore, I can right click and remove from quick Access toolbar.
Okay.
This group animates together with this circle.
Let me preview it.
I have my title and as I click my mouse, the first two objects appear and this is perfect.
This is exactly like I envisioned it with my second click.
And this will be tricky.
So watch closely with my second click.
I want this line and those objects to animate.
You can see the first click two objects.
The next animation will start with the line Select Wipe.
And select wipe from left.
You can see that the line is growing since the line did grow.
Now here you want to select this object.
Alt three.
Click here.
Click on the bottom side on the entire box.
You can select it like this.
You need to select the entire box.
Alt three.
Boom.
Now come to the right side.
We have straight connector, second click, and we have a group.
Third click.
But I want this to happen automatically because I want the line, this object and this object to happen
one after another after another.
So I'll right click.
I can select either with previous or after previous.
Let me show you after previous this time.
Right click after previous because I would delay it anyway.
So it's the same if you select after previous or with previous and make a small delay.
Okay.
Let me press shift F5 and see what I did.
This is my first mouse click and now comes my second mouse click.
I'm astonished.
I really love those animations and you don't have to think about it twice.
You just click here alt three, you try to be precise and select this line.
Perfect.
I was able to click it.
You select this alt three boom.
It automatically gets the after previous here.
All three.
Boom.
Ready?
This light is animated.
Now your quest will be, of course, to create an animation as bad as this one.
I hope it's good.
Not bad.
Shift F5.
Let me preview this one last time.
With the first click, I would explain you my first service with my second click.
I would prepare an animation like that and with my next click I would make this animation.
Now here we are slowly going into video explainers, and this is what I wanted to teach you, that it's
really better if I serve information one by one, slowly, slowly, well timed animations like that.
Okay.
I hope you did enjoy the animation of this slide and I will see you once you've animated this slide
in the next one.

--- Slide 6. Disappearing and Growing Boxes ---

At this point, you already know how to create some simple animations, so will do something different
here.
We will not only animate the text, we will grow the elements and then we will make them together disappear.
Something unique, something different.
So you will learn more PowerPoint tools.
Oh, --, it gets better and better now.
This slide will be super fun.
How do we want to animate that?
Because look at that.
Okay.
I made this one consistent group, but eventually I could animate separately the background and separately.
This icon, if I want to take it to the next level right away.
But since this is so much animation, I don't want to make you discouraged or make too much on the slide
for the viewer, so I'll animate this together.
At first I want to animate the title, but the title I will definitely not make this from scratch.
I'll just place Ctrl, C, Ctrl v, take the first one, alt three boom, take the next one, alt three
boom.
Okay, shift, shift, delete.
And we have the title for this entire circle.
And now I'm glad that I did group it is this group as well.
Perfect.
Everything is very nicely prepared for animation work.
Maybe we will use this time.
Also those pulse effects or those growth rings effects.
I could think of something like that.
For example, let's select Grow Shrink.
You can see it's a bit odd, at least for this animation.
So let me fine tune it.
Let me select the duration one second.
Let me double click on it.
And in the effects pane, we have size 150%.
You can click on that and you can select one 115 and press enter.
Remember that you need to click here and press enter because this can sometimes get weird.
We don't need any bounces.
Just select.
Okay.
And let's see how the animation looks.
And I believe this is completely enough for my taste.
Now, we have so many ways of animating this slide.
Now I'll click on that and click on this with my shift Click.
I will add animation and add a fade off.
I know I'm getting crazy here, but I want to show you really something different.
We have three animations here.
Let me press shift F5.
The first animation happens and if I click my mouse, this gets bigger because I want to communicate
to you that I'm animating this slide.
Then as I click my mouse, it will disappear and this one should get bigger.
This would be a way of explaining things and eliminating the old things.
Select this old tree and copy the animation over.
And now be careful because we have so many animations, it can very quickly get very messy.
And I'll make this very slowly.
I'll now play this old tree.
Click on this and before I proceed, I want to make sure that copying it over makes it exactly the same.
I believe it does.
Shift F5.
Now the title animates my first click.
My next click.
And this should happen automatically.
And this is my first mistake.
Click on that.
I want this and this to happen together.
So the yellow grow shrink.
Right click with previous.
Now, this is the tricky part.
Look what I mean.
I'll explain it to you with the first click.
I want this to get bigger and with my next one mouse click, I want this left side to disappear and
the next object to automatically get instantly bigger.
This is now perfect.
Apart from that, that I don't see the service.
You can see that those advanced animations can cause some problems.
That's why I will select that right click and I'll bring them to front just so they are above the images.
Okay, now I can again alt three duplicate click on that alt three duplicate and I can go from here.
I can press shift F5.
And I want to make sure that all animations work properly.
My first click.
My second click.
My third click.
And my fourth click is not yet copied, but I see everything works perfectly.
I'll click on that old tree.
Boom.
All three, Boom.
And I will tell you that this is the most advanced animations we did until now.
If you will have troubles, please go very slowly over this tutorial or just try and watch my thought
process because I already know how to work with those animations and I can eliminate my errors.
There is one more thing I would like to say you.
If you have troubles animating what I just did, make it simpler for you.
The problem is that I designed advanced slides.
In my opinion.
I designed very complete slides.
But if you would like to train, don't do it the same way.
Just delete the top part, delete the bottom part, or just duplicate the slide.
You know that you can click on the slide and press Ctrl D to duplicate it and just work on those objects.
If you will learn how to animate those objects properly like that, then you will have no problems adding
more animations.
Right now I just wanted to achieve a bit of a custom effect here.
Okay, you get it.
I hope this is plenty of fun to you as well.
And we see each other in the next lessons.

--- Slide 7. Dim the Lights ---

You probably thought that nothing will come here because this is simple text box.
Some simple animations can be applied here.
Yes, they will be simple.
But I will show you how to dim elements as we progress explaining this slide.
Okay.
You thought to yourself that you will have no more fun in PowerPoint because you know everything.
So forget about that.
I will only copy this title with here.
I would like to show you something not advanced, but something different.
And this will be really something cool, which I've worked with several times and it always have the
little wow factor.
At first I will copy the first few animations.
All three, boom, all three, boom.
I will delete that.
So I'll have my first part ready.
Go to animations, open the animation pane to see what is happening and how to animate that.
As of course we could animate this box, we could animate this box, but I will actually group them
with control.
So they are consistent boxes and I would like to progress from one to another.
But this later on to be a bit dimmed.
How to make that?
I will show you a simple trick.
Press alt to click on the rectangle and create a rectangle above it.
Press on shape, fill white.
So it's consistent with the background.
Shape outline.
No outline.
Okay, now I'll right click and open format shape.
And I want to work with the transparency.
You can probably see where I'm going with that because we will repeat those steps.
But I want it to be just slightly invisible.
Okay.
I have about 22% of not invisibility of transparency, and I'll copy this object over each of those
boxes.
Control.
C Control.
V Control v control v.
Perfect.
At first they should all be invisible because I want them to slowly appear on the screen.
So I'll select the first one.
I'll go to animations.
And I will select maybe a simple fade.
Now you need to imagine what happens.
At first this is invisible.
But then this box fades in.
Look.
Shift f five.
The entire text I'm explaining to you at the beginning is visible.
But if I click my mouse, it gets a bit darker, and I would like to replicate those steps for each
of those objects.
So simple, yet so effective.
Animation painter, which is our old three.
Boom boom, old three, boom, old, three, boom, super quick, nothing difficult.
And now preview it.
Shift f five.
You know that.
I will explain five points here.
I did explain the first point to you already.
And with any click this will be like I'm done with that.
But you can still remember what's here because if I would simply fade it off, you wouldn't see anything
here.
And you would maybe think I wanted to look what was previously explained.
In this case, in this slide, I made the animation like that.
Click, click, click, click.
Super original yet super simple.
How long did it take?
We created a box.
We made transparency and we did click Fade with the mouse.
Click.
Nothing easier.
Nothing harder.
And in my opinion, we are done with the first part of the animation.
In this presentation we did animate the first seven slides.
It was super enjoyable and now we will continue the design.
Okay, this is it for the first part of the animation process.
Let's continue with the design part.
Now.

--- Slide 8. Six Picture Equal Portfolio ---

Our next little section will be about our staff working with pictures like creating portfolios, images.
And I want to show you one way of doing that.
Right click and create a new slide and let us create the slide from scratch.
Again.
For this slide, I would like to use six pictures How to quickly make a portfolio of six images when
you have so many different pictures.
One is a rectangle, one is more of a square, one is horizontal, one is vertical.
We have different dimensions.
One, two, three, four, five, six.
Totally different pictures.
I'll drop them all at once in PowerPoint.
Now we don't really see them, but they are here.
Okay.
In order to group them and resize them in one second altogether, I'll select all of them and in our
format tab in the picture tools we have picture layout.
Picture layout allows us to quickly lay out everything we have in a similar fashion.
You see where this is going.
For example, this one.
This gives me rectangles.
I'll click on that and you can see I have this PowerPoint smart art, and I don't like the smart art
because if I make something bigger, it reshapes it changes everything.
But I'm using this only to make the pictures perfectly.
Even now I can convert convert to shapes.
I have a shape.
Just as we used vectors I can again right click group ungroup and you can see I have many different
items.
Let me take the pictures.
Let me place them on the side and let me delete everything there was before.
I'll take the pictures again.
I'll place them back and voila.
Perfect.
I have six totally equal pictures now.
It would be much, much easier for me to create a portfolio slide.
Let me maybe place them together like that.
Six of them together.
Okay.
Now they are perfectly equal.
I'll try to control them, and I want to extend them to the entire screen.
Okay.
One pixel up right click, group and group.
Again, in my opinion, they are a bit too high, but in the length they are perfect.
How to quickly adjust the crop.
The problem is that we have to crop everything separately.
I will click on crop and I'll crop the image like that.
I would need then to reposition the image, but that's no problem.
Then I select the next image crop and I'll try or I'll make it a perfectly equal crop.
I had a little mistake here.
It tries to crop in both dimensions.
It shouldn't.
All right.
Click on the next image and try to crop it equally.
Again, click on crop and we have our pictures prepared.
I would need to do the same for the bottom pictures.
They also had an outline, but right now we have a perfect portfolio slide.
We could of course take our title, we could place it on the bottom and I will call this my first portfolio.
Of course, we can place some icons here.
The icons should be a bit different, but okay, I will select those that we already have.
I'll try to place them properly.
And of course next to the icons there could be some text boxes.
But this is just a matter of copying something over placing it and adjusting everything.
If you believe that this light doesn't have enough style.
You can always take the overlay just in order because right now we have six generic photos.
They are equal in size and in color.
But if you place an overlay like that on one picture, then you take the overlay and place a similar
overlay on the next picture.
It gets a bit more of design.
Maybe this time a blue overlay.
Of course you need to adjust this transparency.
To the amount you want and the right.
We have this slide prepared.
We have three different overlays here.
And what's great.
We can use this overlay now if we work with other slides, I will leave.
The transparency isn't enough here because we barely see the photograph.
Okay.
I've adjusted everything and I've created my first portfolio slide.
Now it's your turn.
Create six images.
Try to make all of them equal.
Take those overlays and eventually finish the slide with some icons, some text and a title for it.

--- Slide 9. Display with Four Pieces ---

All right.
We use the title every time.
So let's create a slide just with pictures and with information without any title.
I will select a picture.
Really?
Any one from the pictures I have, For example, this climbing guy.
And at first I would like to inform you that we will use four pictures here.
I want them to be equal.
That's why in the crop options I'll go to aspect ratio and I'll make sure it's portrait maybe 2 to 3.
It appears funny enough that this picture is exactly like that.
Okay, let's take maybe this person, maybe those lamps and this office desk and place them in.
I I'll click on each of those pictures.
Crop aspect ratio portrait two thirds.
Okay.
I'll crop them.
This will make sure that I have equal pictures.
Do this on all four of those pictures.
Now, I know that those pictures are perfectly equal when it comes to their aspect ratios and sizes.
So I want to make them smaller and I want to distribute them on the slide as I have all of them selected,
align, maybe align to slide and align, distribute horizontally.
Okay.
They overlap each other so they are still too big.
I wanted them to be a bit smaller and I want a small gap here and small gap here.
So maybe I did a small mistake by making them aligned to slide.
Okay.
Right now there should be.
Okay.
I will once again select, align, align selected objects because I want it to be aligned to the first
and last object so only the middle objects will move, align, distribute horizontally.
Well, still too big because I still have no spaces between them.
Okay.
Now finally spaces should be here.
Align, distribute horizontally.
Okay.
Everything is pretty nice.
So this is the top side of my slide.
Then I would like a box to be under them in this darkest color alt two rectangle and create a box to
be equally distributed here.
Perfect format, no outline, shape, fill, eyedropper and select this color.
You can notice how important the eyedropper is and an older version of PowerPoint.
I believe in 2010 or 2007, those versions didn't have the eyedropper.
This was a pain, really a big pain, because eyedropper is so important.
And if you don't have eyedropper, you always need to go shape, fill more, fill colors, and you need
to fill in the argb values.
That's pretty annoying and pretty slow.
We are getting closer with the design and I still want to use my color scheme, Ctrl, C, Ctrl V and
place it on the top here because this will be like the title of this image or the title of this box.
Select their colors and select their transparency.
I will set the transparency to 40%, about 40% Ctrl C, Ctrl, v, Ctrl C, Ctrl V and Ctrl C, Ctrl
v.
I believe I made a small mistake here.
Just nudge it down a bit with the arrow keys and select the appropriate colors, colors, eyedropper.
Next one.
But that's no problem.
Eyedropper the blue.
Just make the transparency about those 40%, 20%, 24%.
And we have the slide nearly prepared.
Now, I will once again copy those text boxes because I want a bit more color Ctrl, C, Ctrl v, I
will place them lower maybe on the bottom or about here and I will make them a bit smaller by selecting
my shift key, my left Ctrl key and also my left alt key.
In order for them not to snap.
Perfect.
Now I have those boxes.
Only the left box is invisible.
So what you have to do, you need to select a different color.
You need to set a transparency for it.
I should also change the color here because I want to be consistent across the entire design and this
slide is prepared.
The last thing we lack is text boxes.
But you already know that you can press alt one and create a text box.
I want to give you like more freedom, more working with pictures and more creative ideas so you will
learn all the PowerPoint tools.
This is it when it comes to this slide, and I hope we can create more exciting slides like that in
the upcoming lessons.

--- Slide 10. Staff Members with Overlay ---

We created a few portfolio slides and those slides are not about only working with images because PowerPoint
design can be much like survival in woods.
We need to know our surroundings.
I'll create another slide.
This time it will be about our staff, our team.
But we will still work with photographs.
Because I want to show you something amazing.
And this time I want again for images similar to here.
But I want those images to fill out the entire screen.
I have my pictures.
I have a few person pictures because I knew that we will create a slide regarding persons.
So I will select one, two, three, four, and I will just place them inside the design.
Okay.
Beautiful pictures.
Each picture is different.
Each picture has other size.
But I want them to be distributed equally.
As for look on the top side, if you don't have rulers, go to view and select ruler.
I would also select guides because guides give us these lines.
We can of course switch those lines and add new ones, but this is just an example.
Now look at the top, the right side and the left side is about 6.6.
I guess these are inches.
I never really thought about that.
And I will select those four images, go to format, and you can remember that the magical number here,
as you can see, one side is 6.6.
So 3.333 is like the magical number to make everything equal.
Select all four images, go to format and place 3.3, four, maybe four.
So we increment it upwards.
All right.
Now, I know that those images are perfectly equal when it comes to their width.
I need also to adjust the height, but this will come in the second.
Okay, Let me place the first picture here or maybe start with the middle.
Start with the middle here.
Start it with the middle here.
Then take this picture and this picture.
Everything is well placed.
Now you need to crop the persons.
And if you don't want those guides anymore, just go to view and deselect guides.
Now click on the first picture.
I go to format crop and I crop it to the bottom.
So I have such a big box and I make this image bigger.
Okay, I make the lady big because I want those images to kind of look equal and I take the next one
crop crop it to the bottom.
Well, crop it actually I'm extending it and make the picture bigger, as you can see.
Well, the better the pictures, the easier the work is.
Okay, now, this guy looks great.
The next guy, crop boom, make him bigger and I need to make them a bit bigger so they look at least
equal.
I may have trouble with the last image because this last image, this lady will be really big in the
image.
But that's the photograph that I have.
I need to work with what I have.
Sometimes your clients require really crazy things, so you need to adapt and work with what you have.
Okay, Crop.
And I've perfectly cropped those images to be equal and distributed across the slide.
I will leave.
This already looks great, but I want to show you something amazing that will help us later.
This would be simple.
Just press alt to create boxes.
Or you can even copy boxes from the previous slide and place them here near to the person.
I have those boxes and I'm selecting the color from the actual image.
So I dropping what colors are here and I'm setting the transparency to 30%.
This way it will all look consistent because it will not go outwards of this photograph.
Okay, Transparency 30.
And now I will show you the trick which will help us later.
I would like to take the overlay we created before.
So take the overlay, for example, from here, take it here and Ctrl C and Ctrl V it.
I would like this overlay to cover up our images.
The transparency is too strong, so lower the transparency because I want those images to be barely
visible.
Okay, this looks great.
Ctrl c, ctrl v then click on it.
Ctrl c, Ctrl v, Ctrl c, Ctrl v, Ctrl v again and voila.
This would be our finalized slide.
Now, later on, if I teach you about animations, we will create something outstanding by going to
animations, adding a fade animation and adding then fade in animations and we will create a very interesting
animation.
With each click, we will reveal one person.
The next click will make this person disappear and the next person appear.
But.
That comes later when we talk about animation.
And this is why I'm teaching you about slide design and animation, because once you learn all that,
you will have no problems creating such slides, such portfolios, such videos, and it will be really
super fun work.
And I can't wait until we start.
For now, let's design a few slides more so we will be more complete as designers and I'll see you in
the next slide design lesson.

--- Slide 11. A single Expert ---

We were introducing multiple staff members.
So let's introduce one now alt two and create your first rectangle.
My first rectangle will be on the left side to show the image of the person shape outline.
Of course.
No outline shape fill.
Of course.
Our darker color.
Now which person do we want?
Do we want Tom?
Maybe this person because we didn't use her earlier.
She is turned to the side.
This isn't quite inviting, but let's use it crop to shape.
Maybe her personality shines through.
Aspect ratio.
Select a square 1 to 1.
You want the square?
Of course.
To be small and her to be smaller maybe as well.
Okay.
But we need to keep in mind that we need to crop the photo properly and we are limited here.
I'll try to do that.
Okay.
I'm selecting crop and we have the first part done.
The next thing would be to put a few stars here, just so we know that she is a top notch professional
in our staff and at least those stars are well prepared by PowerPoint and the Microsoft developers format
shape fill something golden like this.
Shape outline.
No outline.
Make it smaller Ctrl C, Ctrl v, maybe five of them will be proper.
One, two, three, four, five.
Okay.
On the very right side.
On the very left side.
Okay.
Take those three in the middle.
So left the left one.
Select the select the right one.
Format align.
Distribute horizontally.
Align middle.
And I have it.
Okay.
Those five stars look really okay.
Now, probably we should fill the slide a bit.
We could fill it with some text boxes.
Do we have some more text?
And of course, the title.
Okay.
I'll take those three boxes.
I come back and I paste them in.
Of course, the title should be here in the middle, but the text could be here on the left side.
The text can be white or a bit gray, so it isn't as important as it looks.
Okay, take the text, make the text smaller and I believe we have the left side of the slide prepared.
Now when it comes to the right side.
Our expert.
Let's call it like that.
Our expert.
Take the tagline.
Maybe I want the tagline to be as well in the middle and this in the middle.
Okay.
This will be easier to work with.
Perfect.
I have the top of the slide as well prepared to finalize my idea.
I would like a small tagline.
I will go to alt two and I will select a rectangle.
A rectangle like that, a small one.
I will hold my left alt key so it doesn't snap to anything like that.
Then alt two and select a few circles.
Now, depending on how many items you want on the timeline format, please no outline ctrl C, ctrl
v.
Maybe one more item in the middle, Ctrl C, ctrl v and one on the right side.
I would like a gradient to go through this entire design, but at first I would need to combine the
shapes because now each shape is separately format, merge shapes and not combine.
I wanted to union them.
Now I can go to gradient fill and on the left side I want my red color.
On the right side.
We can stay with our grayish darkish color and you can see how the timeline nicely progresses.
Now from red to this darker color, this was a matter of adding a few text boxes, just copying the
text over and making it the same color as the top text on the bottom.
We could maybe select some skills like three progress bars with skills.
We've already created a progress bar previously, so I'll just take it.
Press Ctrl C and I'll press Ctrl V here and you can see already all the colors.
Everything is consistent and I really like the progress bars we did.
They could be of course made a bit different.
For example, this middle one, for example, this middle one could be a bit smaller.
I could place it on the left side, I could extend it, I could come closer, even closer and extend
it a little bit.
But this isn't important.
It can stay like it was before.
Here I would call the skills and maybe add some icons to show some percentage.
Like here I would write Photoshop like that.
And do we need more?
We simply extend them a little bit.
We come closer, we extend them just so that they cover the middle of the screen.
I'm trying to place them more in the middle.
I take those, I place them as well equally.
And voila, we have one person, plenty of information.
I would say even this is too much of information because we have both a timeline.
We have our skill sets.
But I wanted to show you what's possible, how you could approach that and how to make a slide really
complete when it comes to introducing a person.

--- Slide 12. Starting a Vertical Timeline ---

I hope you are not exhausted of this timeline design because now comes like the final boss, the timeline
design in PowerPoint.
We need to think about if we want a horizontal timeline.
Or a vertical going from top to bottom.
I will select a horizontal line and since I do not need so many place for my text, I will maybe place
a picture on the left side.
Let me simply grab any picture I want.
Maybe more of those landscape pictures like we have here.
Take it.
Crop it.
Crop and place it on the left side.
I would like to have some space for my timeline.
Okay.
The picture is cropped crop.
Boom.
And this would be perfect.
Now we could create an overlay which would inform the user which year we are talking about because timelines
are most often about years.
The way I would approach this would be very simple.
I will decide if I want to stay with the color, but I definitely want an overlay.
I want an overlay.
I want to copy it over this slide.
I want to write the year that I will currently edit.
I want, of course, to select my letter of letter font.
Maybe make it in black so it's big enough and I want to turn it.
Do I want that?
Yes, I want that to be turned with my left Ctrl key and right bracket key.
I want to make it bigger 2017 and now I need to decide if I want the photo like that or I want to click
on the photo format, color and grayscale the photograph, because this will look a bit stronger now.
The color can be stronger because I want more effectiveness here.
Okay, like that.
And this would be the beginning of my timeline.
We have to somehow start this timeline and I could of course select a title for it.
Ctrl C, Ctrl v timeline here.
Okay, this would be like a title.
And here we will start our design Alt to select a circle and create a little circle.
This will be like a bullet point on our timeline.
Go to format, shape fill.
Do we want a shape fill?
Maybe this time no fill and select a outline.
Outline maybe this darker one because a red one would be a bit too intensive since I have my right click
format shape opened.
I can adjust the width of my line.
I'll make the width bigger.
Okay.
Not going too much.
Five points.
Yeah, that looks pretty decent.
And I'll place it on the left side because we still need place to work with.
Now I once again press alt to and select align.
I will connect the line and with my shift key I will place it on the bottom of the slide.
I will take its color to be like that.
I will make it thicker.
Well, four points.
4.5.
All right.
It looks pretty decent on the right side.
You would definitely need some text, so I'll grab the text from another slide.
For example, this should do Ctrl, C, Ctrl V, and this would be like the information.
What happened here?
Of course, the text could be a different color, so I'll make a maybe darker gray.
Okay, let's make a bit less text because who would like to read that?
And this would be the very first information.
I believe this is too big.
Now I'll make it more on the bottom this a bit closer and this could be our first step on the timeline.
We could still add a title here and I will do this.
Maybe we want to write the year here or the event that is happening.
Like maybe let's call Oh, we have the year on the left side.
Sorry, I forgot.
What what happened?
What happened in this year in our company or what are we explaining If it's not about the year, you
can of course write March here or any month or anything that this slide is referring to.
This is just a way of starting things and introducing people to what is actually happening.
I'm not grouping those things because I want them later on to have separate animation, but I would
like to group that maybe, maybe I want to group that because those things could appear at once together
and then the line would animate separately.
The next lessons will be quicker because we already have the majority of the design prepared.
So let's head over to the next lesson where we will try to finalize this timeline.

--- Slide 13. Continuing the Timeline ---

Going forward to the next slide.
Replicate the left side of the slide because we don't need so much space.
And as you can see, I did create a box like that because a normal text box was kind of empty.
Let's place 2019.
Let's change the color to this bluish one.
Work again with the transparency.
Drop in another photograph.
Take out the color.
Click on crop.
Crop it to about the same amount.
Okay.
This would be all fine now.
I'll take the crop.
I'll take the crop and I reposition this picture.
Those leaves look suspicious, but I'll let it fly.
Okay.
We have it like that.
Maybe here.
I overdone it.
No problem.
So this is our next slide.
Once you have that ready, you want to grab all those important items?
Including the line and place it as well here.
It's important Ctrl C, Ctrl V that you start with the line on the top of this design.
Okay, I'll start with the line then.
I'll take this design here so it has enough space.
All right.
Now I'm sure that I'm doing it properly.
Let's make this not as long Ctrl C, Ctrl v.
Duplicate this object and you can probably know what will happen next.
Ctrl C Ctrl v.
We need to end this light by clicking the line here, taking the line to the bottom of the slide.
I'll just make sure that everything is positioned properly.
Maybe this a bit lower.
Just look at the visual hierarchy.
We of course need to change the color, but right now it looks really promising.
I'll change this box, change its color to the blue one.
Oh, I have a gradient here.
That's no problem.
I can just double click on those colors and I'll have the blue one.
So the second slide will be blue.
The first was red and had one item, the second is blue and had two items.
And the third slide will be like a reverse slide of that starting from the top side instead of the bottom
side.
I believe you are ready to also create the third slide, so I'll leave that to you.
If not, I will make a simple lesson when I create the last slide and we will be done with our beautiful
timeline.

--- Slide 14. Finalizing the Timeline ---

This should be very simple.
Now I can even Ctrl C and Ctrl V this entire slide.
I will delete everything that I have here, meaning the text and I will place this line on the top side.
I will place the text somewhere in the middle because I only want to have one item here and I will again
connect the line.
Now I need to select the third color and which color do I want?
Either this dark one or this beige.
Let's maybe try with this one because we didn't use it much in this presentation and let's make it transparent.
It actually looks pretty okay.
When it's transparent.
We need to select another year, 2022.
All right.
We are going forward with time.
Now, change the color again here for this little block.
Exquisite.
I hope I wrote this properly and this would be our next slide.
Of course, you also need to change the picture.
And which picture do we want?
I've selected a few new pictures when it comes to those landscapes.
I believe this is one of the new ones.
Yep.
Okay.
I'll try to place it here.
Now I want to make sure that I have it equal so I select crop.
I crop it like that.
If I have it already equal, I crop it here, I crop it here, I reposition the image.
I want to have it perfectly in the middle.
Well, it doesn't have to be perfectly crop color grayscale, right click send to back.
So it goes under the previous photograph.
Select and delete this one and we have our timeline ready later on.
If we animate, this will be so much fun.
You will really gain some interesting knowledge how to make that everything properly.
But right now I wanted to show you a continuous way of presenting like bullet points or something of
this sort because normally people make really thick slides, they are pretty boring, but something
like that really can catch your eye.
We have all those.
Those leaves doesn't work here because here I have a city here, I have some mountains and I should
change this photograph.
Oh, yeah, a bit better.
How boring am I on the mountains?
But this is the concept of this presentation.
And those images are really not harmful.
They are pretty neutral to watch, and they always look cool.
Let's see each other in the next lesson.
And for now, design a timeline like that and I will see you later.

--- Slide 8. Continuous Picture Animation ---

Oh, yeah, this will be juicy because here I want to show you how to animate images.
We will create a very crisp animation like this.
Oh, so much space for nice animation.
I see this light.
I'm happy that we did design it so well, and I'm happy that we have so many items here because look
at those photographs.
Photographs and overlays.
Each of them is separate.
So I would like those images to like to appear on the screen and then the overlays to appear as well.
What would be the quickest way to do so?
I would select everything at once and I would make one consistent animation.
Let me select a simple fade.
Right now, everything fades together with one click.
Okay, that's pretty acceptable.
I will right click and I'll make it start with previous.
So all of those animations start together at first.
Now I need to make sure which one of these are those overlays.
Okay.
The last three are the overlays, so the overlays become delayed.
Definitely.
Now I would like to randomize those animations.
I want to randomize it like that.
DeLay, delay, delay more 0.4, 0.71 second and 20 zero 75 and something similar with those overlays
later on.
1.80
2.1.
2.3.
As you can see, I staggered the animations a little bit randomly across the slide.
Press shift F5.
And as I see it, I would like them to progress, like, more consistent.
I would like the first image, then the second image.
I will place it here.
I know that rectangle 28 is now the second one, so I have the first.
I will delay it a bit.
Okay, then I want this image, which is rectangle 24.
All right.
Rectangle 24 0.75.
Now, this one, I wanted to make it random, but it appears that it doesn't look as good.
Then this one.
And then the last delay it more.
So I tried to be super creative and create something out of the ordinary, but it happens that it didn't
look good.
So I will make a more consistent animation.
I can see I have a bigger break here which can eventually work.
Let me preview that.
Something is missing.
First, second, third.
Okay.
Yeah.
This is the first.
It can get a bit delayed.
This is the second.
And you can see how many mistakes can be eventually made.
That's no problem.
That's the name of the game.
And I could even make those delays bigger.
Half a second, Half a second, Half a second.
I don't like that this is taking so much time now to to adjust.
But you need to take your time on your animation if you want it to be really something, something better,
something more, something more exciting.
You need to take those few seconds to animate it.
Okay.
Shift F5.
Yeah, those last ones go a bit too slow.
I see they overlap each other here, but basically this is the top part animation I wanted to achieve
since in my opinion this is already much of animation.
We wouldn't need to animate the bottom side, of course.
Oh, they are grouped.
That's perfect.
Of course, you could shift, click and animate.
Also those boxes, for example, with a simple like float in.
With a click.
So right click.
On click.
But this wouldn't be necessary right now.
The animation looks as follows.
I believe this is really beautiful.
And eventually, if I click, if I click, if I click, this can be also here.
But you could also completely skip animating the bottom part for the slide.
That's completely enough and you should do the same.
You should work and focus on those pictures and animate them so they make a nice continuous animation.

--- Slide 9. Consistent Teeter and Pulse ---

All right.
Something different here.
I will show you how to animate one box.
Create something very custom so it will pop up and then we will continue that to the other elements
and just replicate the animations we already have here.
I can really imagine how I could animate this.
Those boxes are separate, so why not?
I don't know.
Maybe let's group this group this.
I will try to select those ones as well.
Shift, click Ctrl G and those four, maybe let's animate the first one and then copy this over.
So you need to focus on the bottom side here.
I will click on that and I'll make it floating so the button gets in his position.
This would be the first animation, then the text.
What do we want with the text?
If I have no ideas, I can always select more entrance effects and just quickly select something that
might work.
In this case, actually, the diamond doesn't look as bad.
I will right click and start it with previous because as this box appears also the text box can appear.
But two seconds is too long.
I'll make it also a bit delayed and just in case I double click.
I go to effects and I can also animate little diamonds by word.
Let me see how this will look.
Pretty okay.
Pretty unique.
And let me select shift F5 so I'll know what's happening here.
I'm clicking my mouse.
Also, the text appears.
Beautiful.
We really don't need more.
I want now this button is the text together.
No, the text is also not together.
I'll press ctrl G and now you are seeing what's the problem with having something grouped or having
it ungrouped.
Select this box and I would like a small pulse or a spin or a titter or pulse and titter.
I like both of them, so I will select both.
At first a little pulse, but it should happen with previous it should happen together.
Not too much of delay.
Maybe a bit more.
And then select add animation to add another animation.
The Teeter because I would like you to click here again, right click with previous and delay it a bit.
Now watch what happens with the bottom side of this slide shift F5.
If I click my mouse.
We could also animate this in because it happens that it's visible right from the start.
So I'll again add animation because this one allows us to add new animations.
If I would fade it in, everything disappears.
You need to be aware of that.
Add animation fade as well.
The fade with previous and the fade should happen before those teeters maybe a bit delayed.
Okay.
Shift F5 once again clicking my mouse.
Now the pause happens too quick.
And it's a matter really of watching those mistakes, delaying them a bit.
And you need to remember now that this animation takes about 3 or 4 seconds to play.
So you need to be talking, at least this time about the first part.
Beautiful.
Now I want to copy everything over.
But this wouldn't be a problem, would it?
Alt three.
Boom.
Alt three.
Boom.
Alt three.
Boom.
Three items.
You can see plenty of animations.
So this is where it can eventually get complicated.
But those animations were so simple, it only looks so difficult.
But if you do this animations one by one, and especially if you intend to replicate them, that's a
perfect workflow.
What I did now did save me a lot of time because I animated the first part and I copied everything over
just to be sure.
Shift F5 and this will be your task for this slide.
Not only you had so much work designing the slide, now you have to animate everything.
I really am stretching it.
Am I?
I hope you are enjoying those animations and with each click I'm introducing something new.
The little emphasis effect.
Of course we could change those emphasis effect, like maybe delaying them a bit differently.
But I want everything to be like consistent and have the same animation so the viewer knows what's coming
up next.
This also focuses him enough and lets him know what will be coming next.
This is it when it comes to animating this slide.
I hope you did enjoy it.
You had fun, and now your task will be to do the same.
So I'm waiting for you.

--- Slide 10. Reveal People One by One ---

Get prepared because with each click you will reveal another person.
Oh, I did wait so long for this slide because this is so simple, yet so beautiful.
I really love when something is dimming, fading, making itself visible in PowerPoint.
And that's what I want to teach you.
Also, I like this slide because it's clean.
It has no titles, no unnecessary text, just pure visuals.
As you remember, we did design those overlays and we will only animate those overlays.
Click on the first overlay and now you need to know what will happen.
You know that it should fade off because you want it to be visible.
So this is like counter lighting, which you normally do because normally we fade things in, but this
time we will go here and we will fade it off.
This fade off should start automatically because this is the first picture.
So I'll right click and select with previous because if I start the slide it should disappear right
away.
Next up, this one should disappear and this one should appear again.
This is the tricky part.
Click on this overlay and now we will work on the first mouse click.
When you click your mouse, you want to add an animation and this can be fade or anything else you would
like, of course, but I will select Fade because I want this to be super clean.
Make it fade and with the same mouse click.
This should disappear.
You can probably see where I'm going with that.
I'll click on this.
I'll go to my animations, click here and make it fade off.
And it has a mouse click, which is wrong.
I want to select right click.
I want it to happen with previous.
Now each step of the way you can preview if you are doing everything properly, shift F5.
My first mouse click will make something like that.
My next mouse click will go to the next slide because we didn't copy those animations.
Next up, we want to reveal this guy with the next click.
So click here.
You can see those animations, but I'll make this one by one because I don't want to get confused and
I'm not sure that it will properly copy over with my mouse click.
I want to add animation Fade.
Yes, it is a mouse click.
And now I believe this slide is ready.
Animation painter.
Old three.
Boom.
Alt three.
Boom.
Now I want to make sure that I did everything right.
Shift F5.
Beautiful, super simple animations.
You can always go backwards and you can switch between those people.
So simply by going to right, right, left, just introducing one after another, this would be also
a cool way of showing, for example, this portfolio, if it would cover the entire screen.
This is one way of doing this animation.

--- Slide 10. Trigger Animation that Will Blow Your Mind ---

Hopefully this will blow your mind.
I will select all those overlays and I will place them a bit lower because I need to know how those
pictures are called.
Go to home select selection pane and if you have an old version of PowerPoint and don't have the selection
pane, well you just have to remember and try it one by one.
I'll call this picture one, this picture two.
And now we'll come.
The crazy part.
Look at that.
Super simple.
I've selected all those overlays.
I'll go to animations, add animation, Fade.
All right.
We did fade.
Everything is on the same animation.
I will select the first part.
It's Rectangle 45, so I'll double click on it and you can see on the bottom here we have triggers.
I'm not entirely sure that all PowerPoint versions, I mean the older versions that have triggers,
but the newest versions definitely have them, but I believe the older as well.
Trigger animate as part of click sequence start effect on click off.
Select start effect on Click off and select Rectangle 45.
Now you know why I did rename those pictures.
We are slowly getting there.
Okay.
Rectangle 45.
Okay.
Select the second picture.
It's rectangle 46.
Click here.
Trigger start rectangle 46.
You can probably see where I'm going with that.
We have triggers here and triggers are also something super amazing in PowerPoint.
Now this guy.
47.
Trigger Start Select 47.
Now this one double click trigger start.
48.
Okay, 48.
Okay.
Now, before we proceed, I want you you can see it on mouse Click press shift F5.
As I hover my mouse, you can see it's clickable.
Look what happens.
Boom, boom, boom.
Boom.
As I click, it disappears.
But now, as I click on those photographs, I would like them to appear back.
How to do this?
Select all of them with the shift.
Click Add animation.
Now fade in.
And this is why I wanted to know that this is picture one, two, three, four, because I will select
that one.
I will select the first one trigger start effect on click of picture one.
Okay.
Now you see where this is going?
This one.
Unclick.
Select the one animation trigger on click Off picture to select this one animation trigger on Click
Off Picture three.
The last one trigger on Click off Picture four.
A bit difficult, but look.
Shift five.
I click here.
I click here again because with click I'm revealing this object, but with click on this picture, I'm
making this object appear back again and I can play with this around as I want.
You can see the possibilities that lie here, and this is something outstanding that really will distinguish
you from a super professional in PowerPoint and a normal designer who does random slides.
This is knowledge which not everyone knows, and I really do love how it looks and I can work and play
with the overlay.
It's the same way as you have in home insert.
And links and actions because actions are triggers.
For example, if I hover my mouse here, it will take me to another slide.
This is the same.
Just triggers are for animations.
I hope you did enjoy this tutorial as well because we now animated this beautiful slide twice with totally
different techniques.
I like both and I think that you should know both as well.
Now your turn is to make triggers on those and if you have any troubles, make it easier for you.
Make only two images here and try to work as long until you get those two.

--- Slide 11. Simplified Wipe Animations ---

So many complicated slides.
Let's make this simpler.
Let's make an animation like that.
And with each click, something different appears.
My idea for this slide is to animate everything which is here from left side and animate everything
which is here from the right side.
So we have a nice visual experience.
Click on the photo right away.
Go to animation and I would like it.
Yeah, I want it to fly in.
I would like it to actually float in, but the float in can be only from top or bottom, so the fly
in will be more appropriate.
Click on it.
Effect options from left.
It would be a bit boring like that.
So I will double click.
I will make the duration one second and I'll bounce it a bit at the end.
The perfect.
Maybe this animation is a bit too long.
Zero 75 and I can proceed to the stars.
Now, those stars, I believe, should be grouped.
This will look better fly in as well from the left side with previous delay it a bit, make it a bit
longer and now you could decide effect.
After animation.
Don't dim bounce and well, maybe smooth and will be more appropriate here.
Yeah.
So currently we have an animation like that.
Maybe even too slow after another.
So without any delay.
And in my opinion, this should take one second and this should be delayed.
This will make the animation a bit more consistent.
And this.
Yep.
Click on those stars.
Animation painter.
Or I should select all three.
The text like that as well.
I will delay it a bit.
Preview.
Okay.
Very simple, very clean, very nice for the eye.
And now could proceed to the right side.
This should be here right from the start, because this is only a title, I believe, that could come
in right away.
You can see we have six text boxes.
And this.
This middle object here, this middle object can fly in from the right side.
This would look weird, but I will select it and I will split it.
And that's the beauty.
We can split it towards the middle or outwards.
The middle effect options vertical out.
Yeah, the outward looks pretty beautiful.
Make the duration one second because I would like to enjoy the view.
Yeah.
And then boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom.
Those can appear together.
I will consider even pressing Ctrl g shift, click Ctrl, g shift, click shift, click Ctrl G.
Okay, because they can simply appear together.
So I'll click on the first one.
What do we want now?
A floating isn't the best a wipe in with the click.
This should happen as well, so I'll select with previous.
I will delay that and I will select options from top.
Beautiful duration a bit longer and shift F5.
What do we have?
We have the left side with one click because we would like to gain some information about this person
and then we proceed to the right side.
This appears automatically.
This could appear after a click and this could appear also after click.
Select this object which we already have animated and it's set to width previous alt three.
Here.
And all three here.
But those two should appear.
I will select with my shift.
Click again.
Both.
Right click on Click.
Because I don't want all three of those boxes to appear at once.
I want this line to appear.
And then first the second and the third.
What do we want here?
I believe we have already enough animations, so I'll group that Ctrl, G, Ctrl, G, Ctrl g.
I will select the first one and I'll continue with my WIP animations.
If there is a line, a big box or something like that which is long, the WIP animations are perfect
effect options from left.
This will always work.
Now if we have this old three boom old tree boom, this is it.
Seven mouse clicks.
That's plenty of mouse clicks.
But look, how much information do we have here?
We could also make those three appear together because we don't need those clicks.
So I'll select with previous with previous.
I'll go back to animation.
I'll delay it.
This is just cosmetics and aesthetics and it depends on how do you want this to work.
Please try to animate this on your own now and I will see you in the beautiful timeline animation.
I can't wait for that because this is also something super fun when it comes to animating in PowerPoint.

--- Slide 12. Timeline Animation Pt. 1 ---

The final boss the timeline.
I love to create those timelines and I'll teach you how to make a progressing animation like this.
Hey, and welcome in the timeline animation.
I'm so happy that we arrived here because I was waiting for this moment for so long because those slides
are like essential to advanced PowerPoint design and advanced PowerPoint animation.
I will start right away.
I have already animated the text now going here.
This is one text box or one box with elements and this is the other element.
It will be very simple because this can be animated at once.
So I will maybe make a simple wipe going from the left side to the right side because this seems natural
to me and this will be the first mouse click effect.
Options from left.
Maybe this can take a bit longer because now it animates too quick.
All right.
After this is done with my mouse, click with the next mouse click.
This could come in the slideshow progress and the next animation will start.
So select the line again.
Select wipe to be consistent.
And of course you can imagine wipe from top to bottom.
So effect options from top.
Okay.
And this will be the second mouse click.
So pressing shift F5 animating the first slide.
Or I could even make this automatically right click with previous and just delay it a little bit because
why wait?
We need to show something on our slide shift F5.
So this would be the first animation and if you click your mouse, you will proceed with the line.
The first part is done.
I will proceed now to the second slide in the next part.

--- Slide 13. Timeline Animation Pt. 2 ---

Okay, let us continue our animation journey.
This slide should happen.
The first part should animate automatically.
This will make those slide continuous.
So click on that select wipe and again wipe from top.
Then select the first box.
The first box should also animate automatically.
We will delete this on mouse.
Click later.
We had wipe.
Right.
Okay.
Again wipe this time wipe from left.
Select both animations and right click with previous.
This way, when we animate the previous slide, we click on it.
It will automatically make this animation and we should delay the second animation.
So make the second animation longer and delay it.
What else is super important here?
We didn't do any transitions previously, but here we definitely need a transition.
And this is what makes the entire power of this animation press on transition.
You can see wipe.
You can see push.
And those are great animations for that.
Select the second slide, press the push animation and select effect options from bottom.
Now I will just copy over the animations this wipe animation.
Go to animations and continue those here.
Animation Painter.
This one.
This should be our next mouse click.
I will select on click.
Then this can be copied over alt three two that it's perfectly delayed and then the last line can be
also alt three.
Our last click.
Okay, we have the push animation.
I will select on mouse.
Click here.
It depends on how do you want it to play out and let us preview the animation.
I press shift F5 and we have the first part, the first animation.
As I click my mouse, the line appears.
As I click again, it nicely progresses until here.
That's super beautiful.
And we want to continue this animation here with the next click and the next click it will go here.
Here.
We still don't have the animations.
A little problem of PowerPoint is if I select after zero seconds here that it should progress automatically.
It overwrites the click that I have.
Instead of waiting until I click it, it just goes automatically.
I don't quite like this from the Microsoft developers because if I select after zero seconds, it should
still wait until I click.
But that's just how it works and we can't go over that.
So this is how you would make the animation on the second slide.
And in the next lesson I will very quickly show you how to finalize this entire animation.
And we are done with this animation part in this course.
Aren't you happy?
Well, I am, but would still like to animate more.

--- Slide 14. Timeline Animation Pt. 3 ---

Until this point, you are already an animation beast, so you surely know how to animate this one if
you are lazy like we are.
So just copy that over.
Come here and we will be able to copy over this animation.
By the way, I'm holding my Ctrl key and my scroll wheel to zoom it in and out.
Okay.
Basically I wanted to animate this boom the line, all three boom delete what we imported here.
Animations animation pane.
I want to make sure that this is the first one and it should start automatically with previews.
Then the second one, well, maybe not so delayed.
Let's play it from there.
It looks really okay.
And you can see we can duplicate those slides and make more of them.
We could make an endless timeline like that.
Here we only need to remember about the transition again, the push transition from bottom pushing to
the next one on mouse click.
Okay, let me preview that shift.
F5.
I'm having the first animation, click next animation.
Click, click.
Everything works perfectly.
Maybe this line was a bit too quick so I can select the line and make the duration of the animation
a bit longer.
So it looks nicer for the viewer.
This is it.
When it comes to the second animation part, I'm really happy about what we did.
We did learn about triggers.
We did learn how to make multiple animations at once.
We did learn how to animate a timeline.
And if you were following what I did on those slides and if you did it on your own, you are really
a big step closer to becoming a real PowerPoint guru, a PowerPoint master, and you will be really
able to use the software to your advantage, not just struggle against it.
I would like to still continue the course and teach you some more important animations, some more important
things that I believe are relevant to the program.
So see you in the next lesson.
Please stay tuned.
And we see each other in a moment.

--- What is Kinetic Typography ---

Hey there and welcome to this little section related to kinetic typography.
But first things first.
I'd like to clear out what kinetic typography actually is, what motion graphics is, so you will work
properly on this topic very quickly.
I'd like to go over what actually motion graphics is, and on this Mo website I found a very simple
explanation.
Motion graphics is a composed word means graphics and movement.
Almost everything that moves and that involves a graphic element is motion graphics.
On another website we can read another very simple explanation.
Motion graphics are similar to infographics, but they use video footage or animation to create the
illusion of motion.
I wouldn't agree with the illusion because motion graphics are nearly all the animations we can find
on the web like commercials, normal animations, lower thirds everything which is moving graphics could
be explained as being motion graphics.
Another user said.
For me, motion graphics is the satisfaction of executing an idea that moves people.
That's more of a philosophical approach, but it's also a great explanation.
When we go to the more educational sources, we can read something like digital footage or animation,
which create the illusion of motion or rotation.
This is a very simple example of motion graphics.
You can see animated graphics on the screen knowing what motion graphics is, or at least understanding
that it's related to animation and it's basically animation We can distinguish from it.
Kinetic typography, kinetic typography is just one element of motion graphics, one type of doing motion
graphics, which involves text.
When we again read some description, it can be explained as moving text as we see on the example on
the right side.
Now your quest for this lesson will be to write in Google Kinetic Typography Examples.
Watch a few videos please just watch a few of kinetic typography examples and be aware we will not be
able to do most of them in PowerPoint.
PowerPoint is not the perfect motion graphics tool, but why do I even touch on this topic?
I do touch on this topic because in PowerPoint we have this funny tab.
We have the animations.
We already learned that we can do something with text animation, so why not try and make some kinetic
typography animations?
We can watch a few examples, but those examples are pretty advanced and as you can see, those neat
motion graphics software like Adobe After Effects to be to be created like that, that's very advanced
animations.
But in PowerPoint I can try and approach a few kinetic typography projects together with you.
I hope we will have a lot of fun and we will bring PowerPoint to its limits because we will really have
to work out of the ordinary here.
Let's start with the next lesson and do some simple kinetic typography projects.

--- First simple project ---

I want you to start simple together with me.
Why?
To overcomplicate it.
So we have this text box.
Let me go to animations and if I would press fade, can I call this kinetic typography?
Well, to some extent, but this would be too simple.
In order to make this a bit more appealing, just a bit more interesting, at first what I would think
of I would press Ctrl C and Ctrl V to duplicate this entire object and I would remove the top text here.
I'll press delete and I would remove the bottom text here.
I will have now more control over the animation because I have this text separated for the first lesson.
I would go for something simple.
Let me take the first text and make it animate from left side and I will take the second text and animate
it from the right side.
For that I can use my not wipe, not wheel.
I want my fly in animation.
You remember the fly in and this is where it comes very in handy because we have the effect options
and we can set it to come from left.
All right.
A bit of a boring animation.
Then you select the second one.
We select again, fly in with this time fly in from right.
I'll open up the animation pane.
And right now, look at those animations.
They are super boring.
I want to select both.
I want to right click and select.
Start with previews because I want to have complete control over those animations.
I'll nudge it a bit to the left side because it's not centered.
Okay.
Those animations I'll select with the shift key boat.
I definitely want them to take at least maybe 125.
The second animation could be a bit delayed.
Let me preview what happens now.
Okay, a bit slow, but we slowly get it to be a bit better.
Now I want to double click on this animation.
I want to go to its effects.
I want a smooth start and or a bounce end.
Now you can select if you want a smooth end or a bounce end.
Let me select a smooth end first.
Maybe on the first text.
Yeah.
It beautifully smooths into the design, but on the second text I will select bounce.
I will compare both animations and then I can decide which one I do like more.
A small bounce for maybe half a second.
Well, the bounce most likely will win, but let me preview that.
Okay, the bounce comes in quicker, but it's a bit more appealing.
The smooth ending would be better if there would be more more text.
But if we only have two words here, let me select the first one.
Let me double click on the effect and also select a bounce half a second of the bounce boom.
Perfectly.
I want to select both animations again because right now I believe they are not too slow.
They are maybe too quick.
Now I want to show you another trick.
I'll press alt two to select a rectangle and I'll place a rectangle here.
Oh, I wanted a normal rectangle, but it doesn't matter.
Shape, outline, no outline shape fill.
Make it the fill of the background this time.
White ctrl C, ctrl v.
You can barely see it.
I can even see it.
Boom.
And we will not see the text unless it comes into the screen.
Not so close.
Okay.
Look at that.
Something completely unique.
We wouldn't expect this from PowerPoint, that we can cover up the left side and cover up the right
side to make this text fly in.
Starting from here, we will use this trick very often.
Now let me select a better color scheme for this entire design.
All right.
The colors are a bit nicer.
Those boxes are still here, and I delete the first animation a bit and I make the second animation
longer.
That's it.
This would be my finalized first kinetic typography animation.
Something like this.
Very simple yet very effective and very good looking when it comes to PowerPoint animation.
Oh, and by the way, if you want a custom transition, let me control C and control V this let me make
this super big so it will be able to cover this kinetic text.
I will select animation, I will select lines.
And with the red dot, I'll cover this up.
This should happen maybe with previous, but I need to delay it and I need to lower the duration.
Now watch what happens.
A beautiful transition covering up the entire text.
And we could, for example, add new text above it now.

--- Minimal Title Reveal Part 1 ---

At first.
I want to quickly show you that it's not my imagination that I just take those animations.
I was doing research in After Effects, and I have a little title animation sequence here.
I have like 30 titles here, and this is how you can gain inspiration.
You can preview those titles and you can think what would be eventually possible in PowerPoint?
Well, most of those animations would be very difficult to make in PowerPoint.
But I saw this one, and I believe we should be able to do something like that in PowerPoint.
It also looks super advanced and high quality, especially those two lines which spread from the middle
look cool.
All right.
And I'm trying to recreate something like that here in this lesson.
We are going to create this very animation.
So how did I go about this?
Please open up a new slide, delete everything and go to insert shapes and you can select a rectangle
or a line.
Let's make a line.
It might be easier to to create and work with that and I will create a line which will be long, like
the entire slide.
Okay.
Once I have the line, I will go to format align, align center.
So it's in the middle.
Now I need to work on the color.
I want shape outline black.
I will click once again on shape, outline the weight and I will select about three points should be
enough.
My first animation as I open my animation, pain should be a simple zoom onto this object.
Please click on the object, select more animations, more entrance effects, and select the very basic
zoom.
All right, This looks very decent.
So we have this first animation which happens on click.
I want to set it right away, right click to start with previews.
When this happens, I would also like this to turn clockwise.
So how to do this?
Because I can select add animation and I can select spin.
But if I do this, this entire object spins around.
Well, you probably can imagine that not only I will set it with previews, but I'll double click,
I'll go to my effects options and instead of 360 clockwise, I want to select quarter of a spin because
I want it sideways quarter spin.
Okay, let's maybe smooth the end.
Oh, this animation is too long.
Let's press.
Okay.
And definitely click on this animation and the duration.
Maybe zero 75.
Let's see how this plays out.
Okay.
Beautiful.
A very swift, clean and quick animation.
I'll double click just to make sure that I have my smooth end.
Okay.
I could smooth it even more.
Basically, we can smooth it to the maximum amount so it gets a nice smooth at the end.
I can eventually take it and make the duration.
One second.
All right.
My next step, what I wanted to do and this will be super important.
Look at that.
If I select the line as it happens here, I would like it to go up and down.
And now we have to use our imagination.
Please.
Once you have those two animations, click on add animation and add line.
Why am I telling you that you need to use your imagination?
Look at that.
We have this straight connector.
I will once again select right click with previous.
I will lower the duration to about half a second because I want this to be a very quick animation.
I will set the delay to zero 75, so it happens after those two animations.
I'll go to effect.
I'll make a smooth end.
And now listen, I need to remember that the second animation is turning this object clockwise.
Since I added this animation, you can see I have a green and a red dot.
This dot indicates where this object should be.
Afterwards, you can see it looks as it would not turn, but you need to remember that PowerPoint is
showing us the preview of the actual object it has.
Since PowerPoint has this object, it will not show us the turning.
Let me show you.
So I just need to remember that once those two animations finish, this object will go to this point.
In my case, this point will be a bit above the original point, just a tiny bit like that.
And now watch what happens.
Boom and we have it.
That's how we create the first part of this animation.
Now you can click on the line, you can press Ctrl, C, Ctrl V to paste it.
You want to make sure that you will place it exactly in the same place.
You can do this with the keyboard and you need to remember that in the red animation you need to place
it down.
It should happen to the bottom, not to the top side.
I'll press my shift key and now I want to make sure that this object format align.
Align center.
This is a very tricky, unique, but still very advanced part, which most people would have problems
to do in PowerPoint.
But surely if you go slow about that, you will be able to replicate the steps.
Once you finish those two lines, they should have an animation like that.
I will press on the first animation and I will select play from.
Beautiful and I'll Ctrl C and Ctrl V to slide and I'll continue my work on to the next slide because
I would like to have a safe copy of this because this is such a cool animation.

--- Minimal Title Reveal Part 2 ---

Okay, Here we'll come.
The far easier part.
Press insert text box.
I will select alt one my shortcut and maybe minimal.
I need to change the font immediately to something different because this looks completely ugly.
I'll click on that.
I'll make this a bit bigger with my ctrl key.
Maybe even bigger.
Okay, let's do it like that.
And I want separate boxes for each text.
Minimal title opener.
All right.
It's getting somewhere.
So I have those three text boxes I want to select.
One, two, three.
I want to go to animations and again, select fly in.
Of course, I would like them to fly in from the top side, so I'll select effect options from top.
Now I can go over to those animations right click with previous.
When it comes to the delay, it depends how you want it.
Zero 70 509 and 1.1 So they will have a small delay between them.
You can then double click on it effects and again smooth the end.
In this case, I'm always smoothing the end to the maximum amount because I really like when the animations
slowly fade into their place.
Okay, this would be how this animation currently looks really beautiful and you can imagine what we
will do next.
I want to cover up the top part, insert alt to insert a rectangle like that.
I want it just to cover the text shape outline, no outline shape fill exactly as the background.
All right.
But now we don't see those lines.
I just need to remember where everything is.
I'll select this big box right click.
Send to back.
And now everything would be okay.
Also, the text needs to be behind the box.
So also the text right click send to back.
Right now I can preview the animation.
It starts to get beautiful.
Maybe this a bit higher.
Maybe.
And this is just a matter of simple adjustments.
I'll go to animation and maybe with my shift key, make the animations a tiny bit longer because they
were happening too quick.
And I wanted also to have lines on the left side.
Let me preview what we did before.
Yeah, those lines nicely spread out.
The way I did this, I selected a simple line, Ctrl, C, Ctrl v.
I made the line smaller.
I'm keeping the same width and I placed it here.
Now I want to delete the straight connector animation and this yellow animation, and we have the basic
zoom.
But you know what?
I will select the split animation.
I'll click on Effect Options and I'll make a horizontal out.
Look at that.
Very beautiful.
Now I can simply delay it, maybe raise the duration and it should happen somewhere together with the
text boxes.
Okay.
It's too slow and too late.
Make it less delayed.
Make it quicker.
You don't have to make the animation exactly like this.
I just want to show you how I'm approaching to create this.
All right.
It's nearly there.
I'll make this a bit longer.
Ctrl C, Ctrl V, I'll try to place it in the same way, but on the right side.
And now it's a matter of playing everything through.
Beautiful, in my opinion.
Those kinetic typography projects in PowerPoint are difficult to make, so it's a matter of making a
few mistakes.
But you can start slowly with, for example, making those lines, which is the most important part
of this animation.
It's the most difficult part, and what comes next is just adding the text, covering up with this big
box.
And those elements on the left and right are just additional elements to give everything a bit more
flavor.
Let me know if you did like this project and I'll see you in other lessons.

--- Sparkle Animation ---

Another very popular thing in motion graphics and connected with kinetic typography can be creating
motion elements, motion shapes.
This is an example of a little motion animation, and I was once doing a bigger project about kinetic
typography in PowerPoint, and this was the animation.
I included it in one of my courses and just watch those elements.
On the left side, we have a normal text.
But boom, if we add those little sparkles on the side, it gives it the nice little flavor.
How to do something like this in PowerPoint.
Let me show you in this lecture, you could create those shapes one by one and just copy them over,
but you can also use something different.
I'll press alt two and on the bottom we have stars and banners and you can use any star.
Let's do something with maybe.
Do we have ten?
Okay, let's create it with ten.
And you may think, what the heck?
How could this look like the sparkles I did show you.
Well, it's simple.
You just drag it down and you basically have it ready.
Now, if you want them to be wider or bigger, they can stay like that.
But if you want them, you just take the outline and you change the weight of the outline.
You can see that, okay, I'll make this a tiny bit bigger.
Well, do we need a shape fill?
We can select no fill shape outline.
Let's make it maybe yellowish or let's make it green just for fun.
I want to make sure that it's in the middle.
So align center and align middle.
Now, when it comes to the animation, I won't go to the animations.
I want to open the animation pane and I would like to enter a zoom here.
All right, We have this nice zoom.
The zoom alone like isn't enough to give it the little flavor.
So it also should grow a bit when it gets zoomed.
That's why I will select add animation and I'll try to select also the grow.
It doesn't have to be so big and definitely double click here.
Go to Effects and the size could be like 110 on 115.
Maybe.
Let's stay with 110.
I'll select enter.
We want a smooth.
Yeah.
I always want a smooth.
You can see now it gets a bit better.
I'll select both animations and I need to make them very similar.
So I'll select start with previous.
I'll make the duration half a second.
No delay.
All right.
This would be the animation I have.
Pretty nice, a bit too quick, but usually those sparkles are really quick.
Let me go for one second.
Back to After Effects.
Maybe I don't want those circles.
I just want those sparkles to be seen.
And you can notice that sparkles appear and they already start to disappear.
So this is just a quick swift animation like and you want something like that in PowerPoint.
But in order to do this I would Ctrl C and Ctrl V, this object.
I would place it on the same place and I would go to format, edit, shape, and I would change it to
a circle because this circle will be the same size.
You can see some of them are bigger.
So I need to take the circle.
I need to press my shift, my control key and also my left alt key.
And I want to make sure that it will cover all of those elements.
Perfect shape fill, make it the fill of the background shape outline, no outline, and you can see
it's nearly perfect, a bit bigger.
And it has the same animations because I copied this object.
But what you need to do, you need to go to animations and just delay them a little bit so they happen
quarter a second after each other.
Okay.
Basically this would be the animation and you can see my little mistake.
My little mistake is that the Zoom animation I used?
Let me go to animations.
I used this zoom.
But we have two types of zoom.
As I select more entrance effects, we have zoom and basic zoom.
The zoom also does a little fade in, but I want no fading.
I want a basic zoom, which will be the color in 100% opacity along the way.
Okay, I did change the zoom, now I will delay it.
How was it before?
Like that.
Okay, play.
Now it's a matter of adjusting all the durations.
And you can experiment.
You can lower the duration here, you can delay it or without delay.
And let me preview it.
All right.
Now I have a very slight delay, 0.1 delay between them and the animation would look like that.
That's one way of doing very simple sparkles in PowerPoint.
We could do the same with circles.
I hope this was informative and very useful to you.
See you.
In other kinetic typography projects we might explore together.

--- Multiple Sentences Animation Part 1 ---

In this two part lecture, we are going to prepare this animation.
Okay, before we start, I would like you to prepare a slide with four text boxes, place two very big
text boxes in the middle, one on the top side, one on the bottom side, and two text boxes on the
left and right.
One higher and one lower.
So later on they can appear together.
Once you have everything done, select the middle text boxes.
Go, of course, to animations.
Let us open the animation pane and let us prepare the first animation.
At first I would like the flyin to happen on the top one.
I would like it to fly in from left, so I will select effect options from left.
And on the second one I will select effect options from right.
You probably can anticipate that the quick adjustments we want to make is right click with previous,
maybe extend the duration and maybe double click go to effect and make a very small bounce.
For example, 0.2 seconds should be completely enough.
This is okay.
I'll double click the second animation 0.2 I'll select.
Okay.
And this is the first part of the animation.
Part number two will be to add another animation to them.
Select again both of those text boxes.
Select, add animation and place grow shrink because I would like them to get smaller.
I don't want them to grow.
I want to again right click with previous.
I want to make the duration maybe 1.5.
This should be completely enough.
Maybe we lower this anyway and I'll double click on the animation effect.
I'll click on the size and I want it smaller.
If I select smaller, it will automatically change it to 50%.
We don't need any bounces or smooths here.
I'll select okay.
And I'll double click here and I'll do the same effect size smaller.
Right now we have two animations here.
Fly in and grow shrink.
Please select the first animation and select play from to know what is happening here.
Okay, everything is basically okay.
But later on, as they shrink, they are too far apart from each other.
Look at that.
There's such a big gap here in the middle.
How could we adjust that?
This would be very simple because we can again select the top text once again, select add animation
and add another animation.
This time I want the lines.
Yeah, this is going into the right direction.
It is just too far.
I want it a bit lower to about this amount and I cannot exactly anticipate where it will end because
it's shrinking in the meantime.
So once again, right click with previous and I need to delay it because right now all those animation
happen at once and this would create an error.
You can see that.
So I want this to start after the green ones.
The green ones take 75 to play.
So it's nearly a second.
So I will delay it by 75 and make the duration maybe to also zero 75.
Let me preview that.
Yeah.
And now the movement is happening when it's shrinking.
I would like to do the same on the more text so both texts will move towards each other.
So select the more text and select the third animation for it, which will be also lines.
Take the red dot, place it a bit higher.
And now and that's a little problem.
It is snapping.
If there is a problem that the animation will snap where you don't want it to snap, you can always
press the left alt key and it will adjust as you want.
Okay.
I'm really not precise here and I would like those animation to start the same way and I'll hit play
now.
Okay.
Too close together.
I'll just place this a bit lower.
Beautiful.
It's somewhat okay.
And this would be the first part of the animation play from the finalized animation should look like
that.
You should have three animations on the first object and three animations on the second object.
This will teach you a lot about working with text and animations with text.
The little problem I see with the lines, look at that.
If I try to adjust the lines.
It always snaps back to the beginning.
So I have one shot at making this.
Well, okay, this should be okay.
Boom.
I have to stay with it now because else I have to do this from scratch and the animation looks now perfect.
And in the next lesson, we can continue and finalize this animation.

--- Multiple Sentences Animation Part 2 ---

Okay, let us continue the design.
When this animation finishes.
I would like this to fly away and a new one to fly in.
So let me start working on that.
Go to animations and look how crazy we are.
Adding a fourth animation to the same textbox, but this will be the last one, I promise.
Click add animation and in the exit effect, you want it to fly out.
Since it did fly in from the left side, it should fly out to the right side.
So I will select effect options to right.
I will select with previous, but I immediately will delay it by a lot because I want a few seconds
for people to actually see the text, be able to read it.
The duration half a second is pretty okay.
Now the second text add animation fly out and this time it will fly out to the left side effect options
to left with previous and automatically it snaps together.
Let me preview that.
Okay, perfect.
We have a bit of time in the middle, maybe even too much time, so I'll lower the delay because this
is just an example.
Now I want this to fly in exactly as they start to disappear from the screen.
So I will not add an animation.
I will simply make it fly in.
From left and I'll start it with previews.
I will do the same for the second text.
I can click control and with my mouse wheel I can zoom out PowerPoint.
You can also do this here.
You can use the zoom out like that.
I'll go to animation painter because I'm lazy.
I'll click on it and I'll just change the type of the animation to be from.
Right.
Okay.
Let me preview now what is happening on the screen and if I need any adjustments.
Okay.
And you know what my problem is?
Yeah, you can probably imagine it should be here on the screen because if it is supposed to fly in,
it has to fly in from somewhere.
If I don't want to use fly in the proper way of doing this would be select animations lines and just
place it like here, like that.
This way it would appear on the screen.
But this is the problem.
PowerPoint is snapping to objects.
If you don't want PowerPoint to snap to objects, you have to always go to home.
Select Selection Pane.
I would need to deselect the something text.
It was text box, text box nine and now I would have freedom and I could place it where I want.
So this is a little problem with PowerPoint, so I will not do that.
I will stay with the flying animation and I can see that I made a big mistake.
Yeah, we have the flying animation, so I just have to take those text boxes here.
The second text box here, I can position them exactly as I wanted them to be in the beginning.
I can now preview the entire animation.
Boom.
Okay, this one is wrongly set.
It should be format.
It should be animation.
Because I pressed Control Z a few times from right.
Maybe I'll delay this just a tiny bit.
So they are they will have some space and I'll give it a smooth end.
The second one as well.
Smooth.
And maybe also here on the red ones, smooth end effect, smooth end.
And okay, this should be the finalized animation.
Let me preview that.
Beautiful.
I believe now as I see it, that we do not need the delay.
But it depends.
Let me see.
Wow.
Beautiful.
This is really beautiful.
I want to extend the duration to one second because I believe they were a bit too quick.
Superb.
And if you will have troubles changing the text because right now I can select the text, but it might
be difficult to select some text boxes in case you run into trouble.
Always go to home select selection pane, open the selection pane and you can deselect certain objects
to access other objects easier.
Right now, everything works perfectly.
This is a prepared kinetic typography template.
I hope this was plenty of fun to design for you and please try it yourself and create such an kinetic
typography animation.

--- Multiple Sentences using MORPH Transition ---

Later on in the course, I will teach you about the morph transition, a transition that was added in
PowerPoint 2019.
But since you are doing this kind of animation, I want to show you how you would approach something
similar using the more transition.
Here I would duplicate this slide, and on the second slide I would take this text.
I would go to home and I would make this smaller just to show you what will happen.
Let me briefly align them together again, go into the middle.
And if I would go to transitions and I would press morph.
The mode of transition takes information from the previous slide and tries to move everything to the
new slide.
If I would come to the previous slide, I would put this text on the left side and this big text on
the right side.
Now, going back to the next slide and pressing more just to preview what happens with this kind of
transition.
You can see it took information from the previous slide and it morphed this into this slide.
Now, what happens if something isn't on the previous slide?
It will simply fade in.
So we need to be very careful when using more, because if you want more to look really good, you need
to have the same things on the previous slide.
This is not an animation.
This is a transition.
Later on in the course.
I will explain you more about that.
I just wanted to highlight that in certain situations you can make very similar animations to what I
did with the line animation with a simple, more transition.
More on that later.
Don't worry about this right now.
I'll teach you everything, so stay tuned and let's see each other in next lectures.

--- Ways of creating templates ---

1
I will be recording the upcoming videos
2
under highly difficult circumstances.
3
So bear in mind for any,
4
so if I make any mistakes, don't hold a grudge against me.
5
I will try to keep it as professional as possible.
6
So stay tuned.
7
This section, however, was supposed to be about
8
template files and creating them in PowerPoint,
9
not about difficult circumstances.
10
So, Templates in PowerPoint.
11
There is a lot of mystery about this topic,
12
but it's a really simple and you are in this course
13
to learn those things.
14
So let me explain.
15
What we did in this presentation, the slides that we did,
16
this is a PowerPoint template.
17
Obviously, because you can send it to someone
18
and someone can change the elements within those slides
19
and he would use this as a template.
20
The same way a template
21
and this is more when people sell templates.
22
A template can be an empty presentation,
23
without anything filled out just blank spaces.
24
And a bunch of layouts created.
25
Those layouts allow us to insert photos
26
into those placeholders, those empty spaces.
27
I will talk about this later.
28
The presentation that we did is a ready presentation
29
with photos included, because those type of presentations
30
are created for clients that require
31
a ready presentation from you.
32
However, the presentation on the right side,
33
the template on the right side,
34
this is most often created for people who sell templates.
35
People who sell templates create a bunch of layouts.
36
So they create the possibilities
37
and empty slides for people.
38
So they drag and drop their own photos
39
when they create presentations.
40
Those placeholders as you can see,
41
again, simply drag and drop, and this photo was dropped
42
into a placeholder.
43
I would just right-click Sent to Back.
44
And this would be basically a ready slide.
45
A very similar slide to this and both PowerPoint files
46
can be treated as templates.
47
In this section I will explain to you
48
what Master Slides are,
49
what Layouts are, what XML files are,
50
which are color schemes, and what THMX files are,
51
which are those designed themes in PowerPoint.
52
So we have something ready called a presentation.
53
We have something with placeholders called a template.
54
And we have the Design tab where a color scheme
55
and layout are bundled and those are called themes.
56
A lot of interesting stuff to cover.
57
So let's go about it one by one.
58
The upcoming topic will be super interesting.

--- Master Slides ---

1
In this lecture, we are going to talk about master slides.
2
Now at first, I want you to open a PowerPoint,
3
right click, select Layout,
4
and what do you see here?
5
You see a bunch of layouts,
6
and you see something called Office Theme.
7
This what is called Office Theme is the master slide.
8
You will go to View,
9
you will go to Slide Master,
10
and here we are opening
11
a completely new layer of PowerPoint.
12
Within the slide master, we have one bigger slide,
13
and those little
14
child themes under this one.
15
The big one, the boss, is the slide master,
16
and what is happening on the slide master
17
is being applied to the entire presentation.
18
What's happening on the separate layouts here below
19
is what happens on separate PowerPoint slides.
20
In the Slide Master tab,
21
you can insert new slide masters,
22
and insert layouts.
23
But bear in mind that most often,
24
we only use one big master slide,
25
and we operate on multiple layouts,
26
but just for organization
27
and if you want to create PowerPoint templates,
28
you can, of course if you want,
29
click here and select Insert Slide Master.
30
As you can see, PowerPoint automatically has added
31
one another big slide master,
32
and another layout under it.
33
You can, of course, freely delete those layouts.
34
Let me show you an example what'll happen.
35
Some layouts cannot be deleted,
36
that's a restriction by PowerPoint,
37
because there has to be one layout.
38
And what do I have now?
39
I have this slide master.
40
I would right click, and I'll rename this master to...
41
White Knight,
42
and this bottom slide master,
43
I'll right click, rename it to...
44
Dark Vader.
45
Okay, rename,
46
and this one I will simply right click,
47
form at the background,
48
and I'll make the background a bit darker,
49
like something really dark.
50
What happens?
51
Everything that is being applied to a master slide
52
is also being brought up on those child themes,
53
those layouts under it.
54
We will talk about layouts later,
55
but you just need to bear in mind
56
that everything that you create on a master slide,
57
for example, the title font.
58
Home, and the fonts,
59
let's select a different font like Aharoni.
60
And everything that we place here
61
will be also inherited by those layouts.
62
Insert, Shapes.
63
If I insert a stupid little circle
64
here on the bottom of the master slide,
65
all layouts will have this circle.
66
So what you can imagine,
67
using a master slide has its advantages
68
because you can apply, for example,
69
a company logo on the entire presentation.
70
But it also has disadvantages
71
because we are forcing something
72
upon all of the slides below.
73
Now let me close the master view.
74
What does this bring to our presentation?
75
Well as you can see, it brings a lot.
76
Because all those slides were created with this layout,
77
because we always deleted the middle,
78
so all of those slides inherited
79
what the master slide told them.
80
And as you can see, we have the White Night,
81
and we have Dark Vader
82
because I have created two master slides.
83
So you do not see the master slides here,
84
you do only see the layouts,
85
but by the name you can know
86
that this presentation has now two master slides.
87
Why would you be using them?
88
Well because you have a big presentation,
89
you want one part of the presentation to always be bright,
90
one part of the presentation to always be dark,
91
so you quickly set up just two master slides
92
and you inherited all those colors to all those layouts.
93
You can say "I do not need to use master slides,
94
"I could just create multiple layouts
95
"and make some of the layouts bright,
96
"some of the layouts dark."
97
Yes, of course, I'm just telling this to you
98
for organization purposes.
99
You can create multiple master slides,
100
and as you can see, if you create a master slide,
101
it creates this little line
102
and you have a nice distinction
103
between slide master number one
104
and slide master number two.
105
Those are the basic information about slide master.
106
At this point, you do not need to know more,
107
because 90% of the time, as we go back to View Slide Master,
108
90% of the time you maximal use one
109
or maybe two slide masters in the presentation.
110
Very often you are just working on one slide master
111
and I do personally not prefer
112
to have multiple items on the slide
113
because I prefer to work on layouts.
114
And just out of curiosity, I want to show you something.
115
On the Design tab when we have
116
those fancy templates made by Microsoft,
117
as we click, as you can see,
118
this presentation got now really ugly,
119
but it doesn't matter,
120
as you go to View, as you go to Slide Master,
121
did you know that those presentations
122
are simply set up here?
123
This is a normal background,
124
and all the layouts just inherited this background.
125
Look at that.
126
This slide master has a gradient,
127
so if you make another color,
128
all those sides will inherit the same color.
129
I'll close the master view,
130
and you can see how quickly
131
I made a change to a presentation.
132
The problem with master slides
133
is that this doesn't always look cool.
134
All right, this is enough for this lecture,
135
in the next lecture, I want to talk about,
136
I want to talk you,
137
in the next lecture, we will talk about layouts,
138
which are far more interesting and important.
139
And let's see each other there.

--- Layouts ---

All right.
So we are off to a good start.
You already know what my street lights are.
Mattress lights are those like Big Apple flights which apply to the entire presentation.
But apart from that, we also have layout.
By the way, if you are using the Mac version of PowerPoint, I think you don't have the layout here,
but on the home tab we have layout as well here.
If you can find the feature on the Mac version, you can always Google PowerPoint for Mac layout and
there is actually a support article for that.
If I navigate down a little click on Mac OS, either the older or the newer versions, I can see that
in normal view on the home that we have the layout function, so you should be able to find it as well
here.
Layouts are the more useful things here in PowerPoint template creation because you can always go to
view slide master and you can create as many layouts as you want.
You can, for example, insert the layout and what's great about layout, you can decide if you wanted
the title to be included.
You can decide if you want the footer to be included, because in the footer you could make like the
number of slides you could in place, like the company website, you can place the date.
And what's also interesting, as I told you that no matter what you insert in Damascus Lite, all layouts,
those little portal layouts always inherit this stuff.
But there is a little trick on each layout.
You can select hide background graphics, and those background graphics from domestic flight will be
hidden.
So if you select this, your layout will have a little bit of independence.
All right, let me delete this.
And what is being done on a layout layouts.
90% of layout consist of placeholders.
You are using layout mostly for picture and text placeholders, all graphics, all designed like we
did here, or icons, backgrounds, colors.
Everything is done within PowerPoint only text and pictures basically are done with layout.
So going to view slide master, I have this empty layout I can select insert placeholder and the multiple
choices placeholder is content.
Where you have like tables, graphs, photos, text.
No matter what you start doing here, this box will adapt.
But more often in the slide, master, you are going to insert placeholder and you want a picture or
text.
Those two obviously are most used.
So if I select a picture placeholder, I will duplicate it multiple times and I can set up a couple
of layouts for me.
What is a very convenient that you can click on this layout.
You can control it and you can make multiple layouts for your presentation.
And this is what template creation is all about.
You would normally like put them here, then you would again duplicate this slide.
Of course, this would need to look better.
For me, it's like completely ugly now, but it doesn't matter.
Then you would create a layout like that, for example, with four pictures.
Then.
You again duplicate this, you again press control and you make another layout controlled with like
six pictures or eight pictures.
Okay, let me be at least a tiny bit professional here and let me make them smaller.
Let me bring them all into the slide shift the select shift, click this selects and shift click.
Okay.
So I've created a one, two, three, four layout for my presentation.
I'm closing the master view.
And what is the actual usage, the actual usages if someone takes this file from me.
And someone greets a new slight and he doesn't have an idea.
Well, what can I do here?
What can I design?
He can always right click select layout and preview what layout I have created.
I can, of course, also named of layouts and he can see.
Wow, there's three pictures with pictures.
There's multiple pictures.
Oh, I wanted to create a portfolio slide.
This is perfect.
I select this and without any work.
Of course he can, like, resize those elements without any work.
He has a slide with given elements on the layout.
Right now he would be so happy because he would just take multiple pictures.
We have eight pictures here.
He would just drag and drop and those pictures would perfectly aligned to the placeholders we have.
So pretty convenient.
And the design ideas from PowerPoint are even helping us a little to like set them up.
But lets if you use a placeholder you most likely do not want to use to design ideas.
All right.
Another very interesting thing is if you have another presentation like here, I have a presentation
with layout.
Let me delete everything.
Let me write the layout.
And I saw in another template like, wow, this layout is so great.
I'm selecting this layout.
I'm taking the slide control key and I'm placing it in my presentation.
Control or command.
If you are on the Mac, there is a good chance that the layout copied over because PowerPoint somehow
has to display the same slide right click layout.
As you can see, PowerPoint imported this layout from another presentation into my presentation.
So what do I have now?
I have an empty slide.
Yes, but I imported layout very quickly.
All right.
This is it.
When it comes to teaching you about layout, remember, layout are added in the view.
Slide master.
Just as Mr. Slides, you can insert layouts and enter an unlimited amount of placeholders into those
layouts.
In a couple of lectures.
I'll show you advanced tricks, which you can apply to those layouts and how you can make, for example,
those picture layout to have a custom shape in the next lecture.
We will firstly go about exemplifies and emacs files because you also need to know what this design
tab is all about.

--- XML files - Usage and Importing ---

1
At first I want to explain you
2
XML color schemes, and how to import them into PowerPoint.
3
If you wanna create color schemes, you go to the Design tab.
4
On the right side, where you have Variants,
5
you open up this.
6
You have Colors,
7
and you can create your own custom color sets,
8
or use the predefined PowerPoint color sets,
9
which we have here,
10
which automatically change up many parts
11
of our presentation.
12
If you wanna customize colors, you can click here,
13
and you can customize certain Accents
14
and elements of a color scheme.
15
But let's say that you've bought a PowerPoint template,
16
and a PowerPoint template was professional enough
17
to include its own color themes variants here
18
to make everything a bit more unique.
19
So I have a folder like that here.
20
This is from a template I once bought,
21
and this template has plenty of color schemes included.
22
In order to use them in PowerPoint,
23
we need to copy them over to our system folder.
24
So it's important this is not included
25
in a PowerPoint template.
26
This is not included in a PowerPoint file.
27
Those are separate files,
28
which you need to copy over to your system folder.
29
I'll show you where to copy them exactly.
30
You can pause the video here
31
to see where you should copy them.
32
To the best of my information, because I'm not a Mac user,
33
this is where you copy them on a Mac,
34
and this is where you copy them on a Windows machine.
35
Simply go to your PC, C,
36
Users, your user, and you need to select AppData.
37
If you do not see AppData,
38
then you need to go to View, Options.
39
In the View options, you need to select
40
the second option, Show hidden files, folders, and drives.
41
Once you have that,
42
you will access to the AppData.
43
AppData, Roaming,
44
Microsoft.
45
Once you are inside our Microsoft,
46
you can go to Templates, Document Themes,
47
and here you have all your theme files and your colors.
48
In the Colors, as you can see,
49
I've just copied over those files.
50
You can delete those files or copy over new files,
51
any new file that you copy here, an XML file,
52
and once you re-open PowerPoint later on,
53
you will have a new color scheme to use like that.
54
Those files will be already on your PC,
55
and any future like PowerPoint file you create, open,
56
you will have those color schemes available.
57
So it's very convenient to copy them once,
58
to have a couple of them,
59
and just to use those premade ready one.
60
On a side note, if you want to create those kinda
61
XML files, you need to simply select Customize Color.
62
You can customize the color to your liking,
63
and then just name it, for example, My color#1.
64
Once you click Save,
65
you have now created a new XML file for your PC,
66
and it will located in the folder I shown previously.
67
Then you go to the Colors,
68
and as you can see, not custom one,
69
but maybe here on the bottom, My color #1.
70
So this is a new XML, which you click on,
71
and you can could support that
72
with the template you've created.
73
This is a crucial part of information
74
when it comes to template creation,
75
and in the next lecture, there will be something
76
even more important and you'll be under
77
an elite few users who know about this.
78
So stay tuned for the next lecture.

--- THMX files - What They Are ---

1
Here I want to explain
2
PowerPoint themes to you.
3
What are PowerPoint themes and those designs,
4
and do we actually use them?
5
As you can see, we have a couple of
6
templates here within PowerPoint.
7
Once we purchase templates,
8
they most often come as a normal PowerPoint file.
9
This is one way of making templates,
10
but another way of making templates
11
is to save them as a theme file.
12
Both work well.
13
The advantage of a theme file
14
is that once you install a theme on your computer,
15
you will have it saved and each time you open PowerPoint,
16
you can quickly click on this theme
17
and this theme has one embedded color scheme into it.
18
So it makes it very easy,
19
to stay consistent, for example,
20
if you are making presentations for a company,
21
because right now, since a color scheme is embedded here,
22
if I go to Insert, if I go to a shape
23
and I insert the shape,
24
you can see the shape automatically gets a color
25
from the color scheme.
26
And those are the schemes we have.
27
So, let's say you are working on PowerPoint template,
28
let's say, right click layout,
29
and you already know a little bit about
30
slide master and layout.
31
So, this presentation has plenty of layouts
32
and it's really cool because
33
if you would like to showcase pictures,
34
you just pick one of those layouts,
35
like this, and I go to insert your pictures here.
36
But, about PowerPoint themes,
37
once you are ready, you have created layouts,
38
you have established a color scheme,
39
by going to Design, variants, colors
40
and you've customized your own color scheme, for example,
41
you've set up a red color scheme.
42
If you want to save this for future use,
43
you can just pick up this drop down,
44
and you can save current theme.
45
I will call this my company theme.
46
Number one, I'm saving this,
47
and now each person I send this file to,
48
and double clicks on it, and import it into his PowerPoint,
49
they will have access to this kind of layout.
50
They will have all the layouts to work with,
51
they will have the embedded color scheme
52
all just embedded into this presentation,
53
and they will basically, each time they open a PowerPoint,
54
they will have access to this PowerPoint theme file,
55
here from the Design tab.
56
Now, this is a bit convenient but,
57
I do prefer to like,
58
open a separate PowerPoint file with all the layout.
59
What's even more important and,
60
that's really hidden knowledge is that,
61
this theme is T-H-M-X file.
62
This is actually just let me call it zip.
63
Yes, I will change it,
64
this will corrupted this file but it doesn't matter.
65
I want to show you what's happening behind the scenes.
66
Behind the scenes,
67
this is just a package folder,
68
and this folder contains information about this theme,
69
which is, it has all these slide layout, in separate files.
70
We can see we have about 80 slide layout.
71
It has all this slide masters.
72
In our case, this is one slide master.
73
It has a few additional theme files like,
74
this color scheme is also embedded here somewhere.
75
What else do we have?
76
We have some pictures because this here, this is a JPEG,
77
and all that, is just packaged,
78
a theme thumbnail.
79
You can see, if you'd like,
80
you could even change this team thumbnail.
81
I'll press OK,
82
and PowerPoint generated this kind of thumbnail.
83
You could possibly change that.
84
This is what I wanted to teach you within this lecture,
85
about PowerPoint themes.
86
Themes are simply packaged up folders of items,
87
which PowerPoint draws information from,
88
how to display a given theme.
89
Everything, slide master, slide layout, the color scheme,
90
will be embedded into this zipped folder.
91
In reality, this is just a package with PowerPoint,
92
is able to read a disc package and turn it into a template.
93
So, this is the difference between
94
using a designed PowerPoint template,
95
and between simply opening a PowerPoint presentation file.
96
We could open a PowerPoint presentation file
97
that's no problem.
98
And this PowerPoint presentation file,
99
this is from, another template I have.
100
This presentation, as you can see,
101
it has its own layout.
102
But, if this would be my company,
103
and I want to go to design,
104
and I want to work on my company colors,
105
and my company layout, we just click here.
106
We, make plenty of changes to this presentation,
107
but as you can see, not everything is changeable
108
because this appears to be a font.
109
Right-click, layout,
110
what happened there?
111
We again have access to our previous layout.
112
So, this is something to remember about when
113
working with themes.
114
I don't want to say to you,
115
that you should create a templates like that,
116
but you need to know what PowerPoint themes are.

--- 06. How do Color Schemes in PowerPoint work ---

You don't have to do anything within this lecture.
I just want you to understand the principles where PowerPoint takes the colors from and how do they
actually influence the shapes we have.
Okay, I have inserted four shapes.
As you probably noticed, always when you enter the shape into PowerPoint, it's a blue shape.
But why is that?
This is because the default theme color has the first accent color set to blue.
If I click on the shape, shape, format, shape, fill, those are the theme colors.
So we have text colors and then we have those colors x and one x and two x and three and so on.
Below that we have shades of the same color.
So actually we only have those colors.
But the colors on the bottom here are simply lighter and darker shades of this particular color.
Now, the first one is blue.
This is why the shapes always turn into that color.
If we go into the design tab, open the variant colors and we customize the colors, we have access
to the actual accents we have here.
And let's say you have a presentation and you would like to everything turn green, then you can change
those accents to, for example, more colors.
Something, something like this.
Accent number two, I will do it a more green color.
Okay.
And accent number three more colors.
I will give it something blue.
Okay, so I have three new accent colors.
I press save.
You see, everything has changed to the new color I have set up.
Because if I click on the shape shape format, the new theme I have used for this presentation has those
three colors I have set.
So what happens to shapes if you recolor them to either theme colors or custom colors?
This is what I wanted to show you within this lecture.
Let's say I will select color number one here, and for the second shape I will select another color
from the theme colors.
For example, this last color here.
Okay, But for those shapes, I will set a completely different custom color.
I take my pick whip.
I can go to shape Fill eyedropper.
I click with the eyedropper and I pick a color that I've imported into PowerPoint, a completely different
color.
So PowerPoint doesn't know this color.
It's a new custom color.
It's not on this palette.
It's a completely custom color.
And for this as well, I will select shape, fill more, fill colors, and I will select a completely
custom color which PowerPoint doesn't have in our basic palette.
Now, what will happen if I change the color scheme of this presentation?
Let me show you.
I go again to design.
I open the colors.
Oh, sorry.
I opened the template Variant colors.
Custom colors.
Now watch what happens if I change the X and one and I believe the last one was green.
So it is x and number six.
I change it to a yellow color and accent.
Number six.
I change it also to a yellow color and I press save.
You can see those to change it.
But those two didn't.
Only the shape outlines changed.
Why is that?
Because here PowerPoint knows that I'm using from the shape format colors I have here, so I only changed
the physically the color, but it's still for PowerPoint.
It's x and one and x and number six.
So PowerPoint knows that PowerPoint should use this color for this shape and this color for this first
shape, no matter what color that is for the items on the right side.
On the other hand, I have selected custom colors, so PowerPoint cannot change the color of those.
There is no right way to set colors in PowerPoint.
It depends if you want to use the basic themes or if you want to change the colors later on, or you
want to go for something completely custom.
In my opinion, it's very convenient to have a color scheme here and I just click on the shape all three
boom, because I have my eyedropper set on Alt and the three shortcut.
So I can always very quickly change the colors.
On the other hand, it's convenient that I do not have to do anything, only go to design variants and
depending on how many color variants you have here, the first two shapes will change because I have
different accents here.
Thank you very much for listening.
I hope you understood what I wanted to get across here and if not, please ask me some questions and
we will see each other in other tutorials very similar to this.

--- Creating a Layout - Pros and Cons ---

1
Hello, welcome back.
2
I would like to tackle with you
3
how I would create such a slide with Master Slides
4
and what are the difficulties,
5
what are the benefits.
6
Let me show you in an example.
7
So I have a photograph here on the top slide
8
and this photograph is covered by such a overlay box.
9
So we'll try to create a similar design
10
which will be easy for us to replicate.
11
Let me simply create a new slide
12
and I will try to create a layout for you.
13
I will go to View,
14
I will go to Slide Master,
15
I will even create a new layout so I have my clean layout.
16
I didn't need a title,
17
I didn't need footers,
18
but I do definitely need...
19
It will be now a bit difficult
20
because we will have to jump around.
21
We'll need a placeholder for the photograph,
22
which we can automatically add.
23
We can decide if we want also those icons.
24
Let me maybe copy those over
25
so I don't have to design everything from scratch.
26
Go to View,
27
again to Slide Master,
28
and let's continue the design.
29
I will insert the placeholder, boom,
30
and I will insert the picture.
31
I want to insert a placeholder for picture.
32
It was about of this size.
33
Boom, perfect.
34
Now we place Control + V
35
and I'll place my icons here.
36
And let's say that this slide is set up
37
to have different icons.
38
Can't I click them?
39
Okay, I can.
40
So I'll leave placeholders just for my icon.
41
Now, my little problem here is
42
that those icons were grouped.
43
So I'll go to Group, Ungroup,
44
and I'll of course delete those objects.
45
Okay, it really goes well.
46
Even better, even better.
47
Yeah, I'm perfect at that.
48
Well, that's the problem.
49
Group, Ungroup.
50
Sorry I am having so much troubles here.
51
There will be a time where I will be able to click that.
52
Okay, those icons.
53
We are nearly done.
54
Just Group, Ungroup.
55
Okay, so this slide is nearly complete.
56
The picture should be to this extension.
57
And on the left of the slide,
58
as you can remember, we have text.
59
No problem.
60
View, Slide Master,
61
our crazy slide,
62
and insert a placeholder,
63
and this time a text placeholder.
64
This placeholder was to about this size.
65
Now edit master text styles.
66
We can set up manually
67
or we can go to Slide Master, Fonts,
68
and we can set fonts for the entire presentation
69
to be used here.
70
Now I'll try to set it manually
71
by selecting Open Sans, as we had.
72
Okay, the last thing I remember,
73
it was this orange color which was used for the text.
74
I don't think it's the same,
75
but let's do it the same.
76
Okay, so I have my layout ready,
77
and you can notice that I could design that
78
straight inside PowerPoint
79
or I can set up this layout if I think
80
that I'll use this layout several times in my presentation.
81
In my case, it's not entirely true
82
because I know that I only have one slide like that.
83
Okay, go to Slide Master,
84
select Close Master View,
85
and I'll try to create the same slide.
86
I'm adding a new slide,
87
and this is not the layout I want.
88
The layout I want is the custom layout I set up, okay?
89
Boom, you can see I have the same layout,
90
and what's great here,
91
I can drag and drop the image,
92
I can start writing the text,
93
and it will immediately look close to that.
94
So I forgot about this title,
95
but that's not important.
96
I wanted to show you how I would set this up
97
to have it to use in my presentation.
98
And what are the benefits?
99
The benefits are that I can use any photograph.
100
I just drag and drop it and boom,
101
PowerPoint snaps this photograph here.
102
And this object is an object merged into this very layout,
103
so my only adjustment which I could do
104
is to delete this object,
105
because the box is perfect.
106
I have text here.
107
The text is orange.
108
The picture's also okay.
109
But then again, this little object,
110
this overlay had to be placed inside here.
111
I couldn't make that in Slide Master
112
because if I would go to View,
113
to Slide Master,
114
and I would put this overlay here
115
like I put those icons here.
116
Let me delete them.
117
Close Master View.
118
I could not move it, not change it.
119
It would bring me nothing.
120
But this advantage is that everything
121
placed here is non-moveable,
122
only those placeholders.
123
So you should use Slide Master
124
and set up templates only by using placeholders.
125
As you can see in the Slide Master,
126
this would not be a way to go,
127
this is okay,
128
and this placeholder is perfectly okay.
129
And what's cool here,
130
this would be a very clean slide which could be adapted.
131
So as I close my Master View,
132
I have a new slide,
133
I select this custom layout I've created,
134
and this can be changed.
135
And this is how our layout should be.
136
Okay, let's say that I wanted this picture to be like this,
137
on the left.
138
Maybe I wanted the picture to be like this on the left side.
139
I wanted that text to be bigger.
140
This can be adjusted,
141
and this is perfect usage of layouts in PowerPoint.
142
In the next lesson,
143
I would like to start to show you advanced PowerPoint tricks
144
which can make your templates amazing
145
and how professionals design advanced templates
146
inside PowerPoint by using Slide Master
147
and all its features.

--- Creating a Layout - Advanced Usage ---

1
Hello, I'm so happy that you've arrived here.
2
Now comes the real meat, the real advanced content.
3
Which professional template readers and PowerPointers,
4
like you, very soon, should use.
5
I want to set up an inherited plate with rounded corners.
6
I have a concept for my entire presentation
7
that it should be a little bit rounded on pictures,
8
on items, everything should be on rounded objects.
9
Let me go to view and select and create one new layout.
10
This layout will show you all, again, benefits and problems
11
which you can have while working in PowerPoint.
12
I'll insert layout.
13
And on this layout I want pictures to be shown
14
and a bit of text.
15
I don't want any title or footer
16
because it will only crowd my slide.
17
I want to go to insert placeholder
18
and insert two picture placeholders.
19
I'll select my Shift and I will select one on the left side,
20
Control + C, Control + D,
21
one on the right side.
22
And I want to show you the troubles which you can face.
23
I wanted rounded corners here.
24
This doesn't look like it
25
but you can click on this placeholder.
26
You can go to edit shape in the formal temp.
27
Change shape and select any shape you want.
28
So I wanted this rectangle.
29
This rounded corners rectangle to be used here.
30
I can even click to adjust it a little bit.
31
Okay?
32
And this is what I would have.
33
The little problem I have with PowerPoint
34
is always when I click on it,
35
it shows me the rectangle placeholder.
36
Only if I deselect it it shows me the actual object
37
which we'll have here.
38
And, but I wanted it to be like this.
39
So how could I do that?
40
So I have good and bad news for you.
41
Depending on what PowerPoint version you have
42
you will or will not be able to do this.
43
So I wrote it as 45 degrees
44
because I wanted everything to be set up in such a style.
45
And as you can see the picture is now skewed.
46
Now we'll see how this looks in the presentation.
47
The good thing is that you can use subtraction
48
to create any shape you like
49
and this is the best trick in PowerPoint
50
you can possibly imagine.
51
Let me show you.
52
Insert, shapes, and I could insert, for example,
53
the same shape.
54
I'd create a shape like this with my Shift key.
55
Not Control, Shift.
56
I'd make it rounded.
57
I'd rotate it over.
58
I'd put it here.
59
And, as I believe, PowerPoint 2010 didn't have subtractions.
60
I'm not entirely sure but I think that PowerPoint 2013,
61
of course, 2016 and all newer versions have this.
62
So if you have PowerPoint 2013 you are safe.
63
You can simply click on the picture,
64
Shift click on the object and in the formal temp,
65
merge shapes, just intersect it.
66
Boom.
67
You have this object prepared.
68
And now look how beautiful this slide could be set up.
69
I could have several of them here.
70
Like this.
71
And we have a beautiful slide setup.
72
I'll close my master view and I'm creating my presentation.
73
New slide and I know that you want
74
to have pictures on this slide.
75
You just right-click, you just layout,
76
and you just select your beautiful layout.
77
Now imagine if an entire presentation
78
would be set up like this.
79
It would be really beautiful and easy to use.
80
So let me now select any picture and show you this example.
81
Boom, I have the water, oh this water applied here.
82
What happens when I put it here.
83
Boom.
84
And now you see the problem with the skewing.
85
The problem here is that I had to rotate this object
86
and here this object was cropped.
87
So I definitely, definitely, definitely recommend
88
cropping objects to, to the little object you want to have
89
because this is a no-go.
90
This however we can't change the formal of this object
91
and we can change the formal here.
92
So, again, I want to always show you advantages and benefits
93
and disadvantages and those,
94
those bad things which master slides sometimes help us
95
and sometimes they limit us in our design.
96
But basically what you want to do,
97
you want to create layouts like that where it's super simple
98
and now I could create several, very similar slides by,
99
for example, just selecting new slide
100
and any new slide I add.
101
Boom, boom, boom.
102
It will always use the last layout used.
103
So if I change my layout.
104
I select a new slide.
105
It'll have the same layout.
106
But since I want to do set up several slides like that,
107
for example this will be slide one, this will be slide two.
108
Slide two would be entirely made up of images
109
so I'd make it like that, like that, like that.
110
Since these placeholders can be copied
111
we only can use as many as we have in, in this layout
112
because I can't press Control + C, Control + D.
113
It doesn't work like that, sadly.
114
We can only create photographs
115
and duplicate those photographs.
116
Boom, boom, boom.
117
But sadly we can not duplicate those objects.
118
We would have to go to view, to slide master,
119
duplicate this layout, and make, for example,
120
a few more boxes which can be used later.
121
Okay?
122
Beautiful layout and we would create a new slide.
123
I'd right-click layout and I know that two custom layout
124
is the crazy layout with all the images here.
125
And I'd use them, I'd place them here,
126
and this is how we use effectively slide master,
127
how you operate on template, how you prepare template,
128
how you create entire presentations
129
with a consistent design.
130
Now if you have a logo.
131
Let's say that this is my company logo.
132
I'd go to view, I'd go to slide master,
133
and I know that this logo has to be everywhere,
134
absolutely everywhere.
135
You'd just go and paste it onto the slide master.
136
You place it here., you make it small,
137
and this little object would be on the entire presentation
138
no matter what you do.
139
So this is how operating on slide, slide masters
140
and template to work.
141
I do hope that this tutorial was very beneficial for you
142
and you learned a lot how to set up custom shapes
143
for your super cool presentations.

--- Designing Templates - Multiply Layouts ---

1
Okay, I see you're on fire today
2
and you would like to learn even more.
3
So, how professional template creators,
4
are creating templates.
5
Now I'll show you a real life example,
6
how I would set up a slide with a picture,
7
with not adding too much into the slide.
8
Okay, so I will combine working within PowerPoint
9
and working within master slides.
10
So I will create a new layout, go to View,
11
select Slide Master,
12
if you would like to create the same thing
13
that I'm creating.
14
So I will select New Layout, okay?
15
I'm inserting it.
16
And I want to create text boxes within PowerPoint
17
with the picture placeholder within this master slide.
18
This will be also without any title or footers
19
because I really don't like this crowded setup.
20
And I'll go to Insert Placeholder, insert Picture
21
and I'd insert a picture.
22
If you would like to follow please do so.
23
So we'll create together a slide with Slide Master.
24
Okay, take the picture and resize it to the left side
25
of the screen.
26
You can select the size if you want it to be big
27
or not too big.
28
Okay, I have the picture.
29
Now I'll go to insert shapes
30
and I'll simply insert a dark shape, okay?
31
I'll place the shape here,
32
I'll make sure that the shape is the same size
33
as the picture, okay?
34
It nearly is.
35
I will go to Shape Outline, No Outline.
36
I will nod it a bit to the left.
37
I will resize it, okay,
38
and this is the left side of my slide.
39
Now I will take this object, I will select the Shape Fill
40
and I would select a color for my design.
41
Let me go to (mumbles) and I want something darkish.
42
Darkish, bluish like this.
43
Okay, and I have my layout prepared.
44
I'll close my Master View and this will allow me
45
to create things within PowerPoint without having
46
to always go to Slide Master.
47
Now I'm creating a new slide.
48
This new slide should have my layout,
49
which I prepared right now.
50
Okay, this is the layout
51
and the rest would be created here within PowerPoint.
52
So I go within PowerPoint to create insert shapes,
53
or I mean Text Box and create text boxes here.
54
Here, I'd select, what a cool template.
55
I'd click on that.
56
I'd make the text white
57
and of course, I want it to use Open Sans
58
because I'm using Open Sans in this presentation, okay?
59
Select it like that, Cotrol + V,
60
then this will be the main color here.
61
Let's say that it's yellow or something.
62
And I'm adding those text boxes,
63
inside the normal PowerPoint creator
64
because I already have my layout.
65
I want this box to be always here,
66
this picture to be on the left side,
67
but those things can be added separately.
68
Now can I get some more example text?
69
Yes, I can.
70
I mean, maybe even the entire one, okay?
71
Argentina, maybe the text should be white here around, okay?
72
This actually it looks really cool
73
so I will copy also those here.
74
Boom, okay, this is making up my slide
75
and then I want may be two icons like this and this, boom.
76
And those icons will be here on this side.
77
Then I'd select the main color, insert shapes,
78
maybe circles for the icons,
79
maybe some text, I don't really know.
80
I will select both.
81
Now you don't have to follow my steps exactly.
82
I just wanted to show you how I would set up this template
83
and I want actually this yellow color, boom.
84
Then I would select text.
85
Of course the text is like now invisible
86
but I would make it visible by making it black and big.
87
Okay, Control + C, Cotrol + V,
88
and wollah, there you have it.
89
This would be a template
90
which I would create within PowerPoint.
91
Of course, this should be groups,
92
this circle should be smaller because it looks a bit weird
93
with this icon.
94
Okay, and this is somewhat how I would go about this.
95
Now, if I select this templates to use,
96
I can also create new slides with the same layout,
97
with similar design.
98
And if someone would receive this presentation from me,
99
if someone would like to change this design, no problem.
100
You can delete that, you can delete that.
101
If you want an image, you just go here,
102
I take my example image, boom, the mushroom, for example,
103
boom, I have the image.
104
I can even go to crop and move the image here.
105
Crop, boom, you are ready with a slide.
106
I see I wasn't perfectly precise here
107
but this can be easily adjusted.
108
And this is how I created a template,
109
for my PowerPoint presentation a new layout.
110
And if I would follow this color,
111
perhaps all my layouts which I would create,
112
would have a similar color.
113
Another layout view, Slide Master, for example,
114
copy this existing layout and place the picture,
115
on the right side in this object here.
116
You close everything and you have already two cool layouts
117
to use quickly in your presentations.

--- Custom Bulletpoint lists ---

You can change PowerPoint fonts with one click.
This is the nice trick I found out with Slide Master and layout.
The way you can set it up is by going to view Opening Slide Master and creating a new layout below the
title slides for example here and creating a new text placeholder.
I'll right click rename this layout to two tutorial fonts.
Then I go to insert placeholder.
I will simply insert a text placeholder, which is usually the base of any PowerPoint slide.
All right, we have the text placeholder and as you can see by default, we have this super boring bullet
point list.
What I'm doing here is selecting all six levels.
Taking all six levels here to the beginning.
So they are all in one line.
And I will also go one step further.
And in the home I will remove the bullet points because I prefer to have a clean look like here.
Now, what you want to do, you want to increase the size.
Let's say my default size is 80 for all the levels.
I do not need the next levels to be smaller because this is not the style I'm looking for.
The last thing I want to do, I want to adjust the actual font you see here.
To achieve something like this, where I set up big bulky fonts for myself and each time I want I want
to use them, I will just select this layout.
But we are doing this here now.
So the first text, it doesn't matter how much text is here, I can even write text here.
It doesn't matter.
PowerPoint will recognize this as a separate level.
What I'm doing, I'm just selecting big fonts I like and I probably will use in my presentation.
Of course, do not go crazy.
Just select something you assume you want to use and you want to have it somewhere close.
Montserrat Black.
Yeah, perfect.
This is a great font I will most likely use.
And I remember that Montserrat is on my level four.
Okay.
Once you are ready, go to Slide Master and simply close the master view.
Right now, each time I select a new slide and I remember that I want to use Montserrat or another big
font, I just right click, I select layout and I make sure that I select the layout I've created,
which is tutorial font.
Okay.
Tutorial Fonts.
Forte was the first font.
First font.
You know what?
I don't like the first font.
I just go here and I change the level of this font since I have four levels specified.
Level number three.
Level number four we have Montserrat with a couple mouse clicks.
No need to change fonts here to search them around and this is a super convenient way.
If you want, you can enable bullet points again because we have specified on this particular slide
within this particular text layer that bullet points should look like that should have one of those
fonts and they will always stay at the beginning.
They will not move with each level because we have specified them to start and be adjusted to the left
side.
What's even more amazing, you can take this particular layout, this I call it tutorial font layout,
Ctrl C, take it to another presentation, make sure this line appears Ctrl V and this layout is now
in another PowerPoint presentation.
This is how you can utilize the Slide master even further by using different fonts for different levels
specified in your text placeholder.
Remember, you do not always have to use those default bullet points.

--- Summary ---

1
You won't have to do anything in this lecture,
2
so just stay a while and listen.
3
Because I'm going to summarize,
4
what we've learnt in the previous lectures,
5
starting with slide master and layouts.
6
As we right click, we see layout.
7
The slide master is a parent
8
for all the layouts we plan to create.
9
Everything we want to apply to the entire presentation
10
could be made on a slide master,
11
but more useful are layouts.
12
When creating a slide like this,
13
I will just replace text boxes,
14
and photographs with picture placeholders,
15
and text placeholders.
16
As you can see the rest of the icons, the overlay,
17
the about us text and the middle,
18
everything is just copied over from the previous slide.
19
But I have created a new layout,
20
and right click layout.
21
You can see it here.
22
What is the advantage here
23
that someone could take any photograph he has,
24
for example mountains, drop it in,
25
just right click on the mountains,
26
send them to back, start typing,
27
and everything will be exactly like I've created here,
28
just very quick and convenient.
29
If you want any changes, like change the text
30
or make more text here or a duplicate this text box,
31
you still have to do this here within PowerPoint normally,
32
but what is the advantage and when should you use layout?
33
If I would create 100 slides,
34
each of those slides would have a picture,
35
this presentation would become very heavy,
36
without any reason.
37
So, using layout makes the presentation quick,
38
lightweight, and everyone can adjust it to its liking.
39
If you are creating a ready presentation for someone,
40
you will create a slide like that.
41
If you are creating a template, you will use layout.
42
So you would delete this photograph, delete any text,
43
and you would just put placeholders there.
44
Going to the next topic,
45
themes and color schemes in PowerPoint.
46
We were talking about themes
47
and those are a bit tricky because,
48
you need remember that any layout you created.
49
When you click on a design from here,
50
the layout will be deleted,
51
if there are other layouts within this design.
52
We have one color scheme embedded here,
53
and a bunch of layouts.
54
So if I click on it, I'm changing the presentation,
55
the presentation changes severely.
56
As I right click, click on layout,
57
you see all my previous layout were deleted,
58
and I have now those new layouts.
59
Which leads me to the next topic color schemes.
60
Do you want to use it?
61
Do you need to XML files,
62
and what this actually is here?
63
As you can see, not everything in this presentation
64
is changing.
65
Why are those colors staying the same?
66
Why are those icons still having white backgrounds?
67
What is going on here?
68
Let me explain.
69
Those are two identical objects,
70
box on the left and the box on the right.
71
The box on the left, when I go to shape format,
72
I will select the color from the existing color range.
73
This is the existing color scheme,
74
and those are just shades,
75
which PowerPoint creates automatically.
76
If I click on any of those shades,
77
or a color from the color scheme,
78
I'm staying within the XML color file.
79
But if I click on an object, I go to shape fill,
80
and I think, well, I need a unique color.
81
I go to more fill colors, and I select a color,
82
which is completely different from the normal color scheme.
83
It can be even red but a different.
84
Now watch what happens.
85
As I go to design, variants, colors,
86
when staying within the color scheme,
87
PowerPoint knows, I should change this red color
88
into a green one.
89
I should change this green one into a blue one.
90
But when it comes to the right box,
91
PowerPoint doesn't know what to do.
92
This is why I do prefer to import the color scheme.
93
Yes, you can say that I can go to colors, customize colors,
94
and I could bring those colors here.
95
It would be a bit tedious,
96
unless PowerPoint gives me here color picker,
97
I have to place them RGB by hand.
98
And the problem here is I have only colors for text,
99
for hyperlinks, and for a couple of accents,
100
which are mostly used in graphs and charts.
101
So as you can see, the XML color files,
102
do have severe disadvantages.
103
To sum everything up, it's perfectly fine
104
to create ready presentations,
105
or to create presentations with layouts.
106
It depends who will be using that.
107
If someone has only basic PowerPoint knowledge
108
and wants to buy a template to not do any work,
109
you have to use layouts because those layouts
110
will crop out pictures automatically for you.
111
When it comes to the design, themes and color variants,
112
It's a matter of if the person knows how themes work,
113
and very many people do not know this.
114
So be cautious when using them.
115
The same goes for XML files.
116
In order to use XML files,
117
someone needs to know where to copy them, how to use them,
118
and what they actually do to your presentation.
119
So it's safer and easier,
120
I know this will take up more space,
121
but it's safer and easier,
122
to duplicate an existing PowerPoint file,
123
create the color scheme yourself,
124
and just naming this PowerPoint file,
125
this presentation template blue,
126
or this presentation template green.
127
This is how it looks in reality.
128
I hope those were very valuable and useful information
129
and there's a lot more great PowerPoint knowledge coming.
130
Let's continue our PowerPoint journey in other ones,
131
and we'll see each other in the next tutorials.

--- Creating Presentations with Microsoft Copilot ---

Hello and welcome to this lecture where we will talk a little bit about Microsoft Copilot, which is
Microsoft's AI assistant.
I will give you a general overview and understanding on the home tab in case you have a license for
copilot.
On the right side next to designer, you will have the copilot icon.
Since a couple of months, an icon like that is also available above the slide.
This is called by the Microsoft team the skittle.
You can open the skittle.
And there is another way to create a presentation.
Create a presentation from file or ask copilot.
Clicking on copilot will simply open this right window.
In this right window.
We have a couple of sample prompts we can use.
We have the area where we insert our actual prompt.
And we also have a library of prompt which we can open.
We can preview and we can click on them directly to add them to our box.
Let me now show you how copilot works.
Copilot can help you create a presentation.
Let us type in.
Create a presentation about the evolution of smart phones.
I will hit enter.
Copilot will start generating a presentation from the prompt that we entered.
It will be working for a while and it will create a standard PowerPoint presentation.
Currently, the first slide is animated.
If you go to animations and open the animation pane, you see the title and subtitle are animated on
most of the slides.
We have an image.
We have the title, and we have underlying text which explains the topic that is presented.
The presentation was created with a template that PowerPoint selected for us.
There are a few Microsoft templates that he automatically uses when we start creating a new presentation.
You can see most of the slides look similar, so it's a great starting point for you to start diving
into a topic.
Once the presentation is ready, you can right click layout and see what type of layout from this presentation
was created.
It has used the two content layout for most of the content slides.
By going to Home Opening designer, you can get variations of this slide.
If I, for example click on this variation, I right click layout.
You can see it is still on the two content layout.
So this is the same layout.
What PowerPoint did.
It moved the picture somewhere else.
In this case it made the picture full screen.
It moved the title somewhere else and it moved the text somewhere else.
You have a few different types of slides that Microsoft Designer can help you achieve with the standard
design here.
Those are the basics about Microsoft Copilot, its capabilities and what it is creating.
This is one way Microsoft Copilot can help you to draft or create a presentation.

--- Copilot Narrative Builder and AI Presentation Editing ---

In this lecture, I want to explain the Microsoft Narrative Builder to you.
A few months ago, Microsoft added the create a presentation about feature.
This is the Microsoft Narrative Builder.
It starts with create a presentation about and I will continue with the same topic.
Evolution of smart phones because I want to show you the capabilities of this feature.
This feature doesn't create the presentation right away, but it starts with an outline.
You can move things around within this outline.
You can delete existing topics or you can add topics in between them.
For example, you think that for the smartphone history, tell me something about the displays of phones
and how they change.
I would like this topic to be included.
Microsoft will think for a while it will add an outline and now I can generate my presentation.
I will select Generate slides and this presentation will be a bit different because it will start with
a title slide and it will have an agenda slide.
Then it will have different sections.
Each single section will start with one title slide for the section.
As you can see, PowerPoint works really quick with that.
So let us preview in a second what he creates.
This is one of the most important features that have been added.
Very soon Microsoft wants to add a feature where we can add individual slides and select different layouts
for them.
Let us now preview the presentation.
As I said, it has the title, it has the agenda, and it has titles for each section.
All the sections have three slides.
To have a standardized design and look you can see we have slides with pictures.
Again we can either select a different layout for them.
But since this presentation doesn't have a lot of layouts, we basically have only this two content
layout that looks promising.
You can always use designer to change the design a little bit, or you can of course do some work yourself.
This depends on the template you use, but Microsoft is selecting the template for us.
Some of the slides are created with a Smartart.
You can use this smart art or what I like to do.
I like to group ungroup this smart art.
So now I can move individual objects a little easier because if this is a smart art and you resize this,
everything else is resized as well.
Now how does Microsoft select which template to use?
At first Microsoft reads your prompt, it creates the outline, then it generates content, and at the
last step it selects the appropriate layout.
So if there is a lot of text and PowerPoint needs a lot of space, he will select a template that has
enough space to fit everything he wanted to say.
There are many more things you can do with copilot, like for example, inserting a picture or insert
a slide about.
Let's say that I want to insert a slide about Sony Ericsson.
And I have selected this slide.
So PowerPoint will now quickly create a slide about my desired topic and insert it into a presentation.
This is some basic editing we are capable of and can do with Microsoft Copilot.

--- Custom Templates with Microsoft Copilot for AI presentations ---

In this lecture, I want to show you custom templates that can be used for Microsoft Copilot.
And what is the end result?
This is a template I created.
I selected a different font.
I selected different colors, and I have a couple of layouts that I know Microsoft Copilot will understand.
I have a title slide and agenda slide, a section slide, some content slides and conclusion slides.
Now if I this time create a presentation, create a presentation about the rise of remote work, for
example.
Since I have prepared this template specifically to work well with Microsoft Copilot because it has
this title slide, it has the agenda slide, it has content slides.
I am certain that this presentation will look well if you want to use custom templates.
It's a bit complicated because copilot doesn't always know which layout to select for which item, but
if you name your layout specifically title, slide, agenda, content, and section, it will know that
it should start the section with this type of slide, and it should showcase the content on this type
of slide.
As you can see, this presentation looks a little better than the standard basic PowerPoint template.
What's even more important that I can right click select layout and change from Content to Content two.
And with one click, I have the picture on the other side because this is how I designed this content.
Microsoft Designer could help me here as well.
Based on the layouts that I have, it will select one or the other layout and try to make the best it
can.
But Microsoft Designer will be a bit limited because it always takes a look at your layouts and it tries
to select a different layout for your slide.
Those are the key and most important things I wanted you to know about Microsoft Copilot.
I will share this file in the resources.
You can use it for whatever you want.

--- Microsoft Copilot in PowerPoint course ---

If you would like to know more about Microsoft Copilot.
How to edit your presentations, how to use those custom templates, and what he is capable of.
I've created a separate dedicated course about Microsoft Copilot.
It's not very long.
It is about one hour long, but this is the place where I can share all the changes about Microsoft
Copilot.
If you want.
Just go to this link.
I'll put the link to the course in the next lecture and here in the resource file if you need it.
Why do I have a separate course?
Because I want all users of all my PowerPoint courses have one place where they will learn about Microsoft
Copilot, because there will be updates to Microsoft Copilot.
I cannot possibly upload those updates to every single PowerPoint course that I have.
This is why this will be the one place to show you updates about Microsoft Copilot.
The benefit of my course is that I'm on the Microsoft Creators Program, a dedicated program for a select
few PowerPoint users that can directly speak with the Microsoft team and give direct feedback about
Copilot and PowerPoint features.
I can also tell you that I will be one of the first few people in the world to know about new and upcoming
copilot features, and the moment Microsoft allows it, I will be able to share them within this course.
If you need to learn more about copilot, I invite you there.
For now, let us continue.

--- Microsoft Copilot Course ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Introduction and Important notice ---

1
Hello and welcome you today.
2
I've got an amazing question from a student who asked,
3
"If something like that is possible in PowerPoint".
4
As you may know another software for presentations
5
for doing them online is Prezi.
6
And in Prezi we have the ability to do animations like this.
7
Like this zooming animations.
8
And the student asked me if something
9
like that is possible with PowerPoint.
10
Well, now since the version 2019 and since Office 365
11
introduced it, yes, it is possible to do
12
those kind of animations in PowerPoint.
13
And I will explain you about Zoom and
14
the Morph function in this section.
15
Quick note, however, the Zoom and the Morph functions
16
are only available for PowerPoint 2019
17
and Office 365 subscribers.
18
Because Office 365 subscribers get always
19
the newest update of PowerPoint.
20
As of today,
21
the Morph function is also available on the Mac version.
22
On the PowerPoint 365 Mac version
23
and PowerPoint 2019 Mac version.
24
But the Zoom feature, as I found,
25
the Zoom feature is not available
26
even in the newest PowerPoint for Mac version.
27
It can only play Zoom.
28
Only the Windows version, currently,
29
can create and play Zoom options.
30
So if you have an older version of PowerPoint
31
you will sadly only be possibly able to
32
play the Zoom but do not use it.
33
But still this is very valuable knowledge
34
and you will be able, in the future, to create them.
35
It's very important that you hear me out
36
in this section and just look at it.
37
You will be able, in the future or now,
38
to create this kind of animations
39
with PowerPoint without any problem.
40
Or those little zooming animations
41
where you click an element and they will
42
fly just like in this presentation.
43
Let me go now right into the content and show you
44
what I mean by that in the next lecture.
45
On a side note, in the resources for download
46
we have the Zoom and Morph section
47
and Empty and Ready file.
48
This Ready file will not work for everyone
49
because we have Ready Zoom animations here.
50
PowerPoint 2016 will be able to handle it.
51
The older versions of PowerPoint, there may be some errors.
52
I'm not sure which errors but you can simply
53
check it out by clicking it yourself
54
and you will see if everything
55
works for your version or not.
56
You can download those resources in this section
57
or at the very beginning of this course.

--- ZOOM - Features ---

1
No matter if you have 2019 or the newest version
2
of PowerPoint, or you have an older version of PowerPoint,
3
I want to explain in this lecture the Zoom feature.
4
The Zoom feature allows us to take normal slides,
5
like this, and just put them into our presentations.
6
Boom, and those are Zoom Slides.
7
Normally, we introduce slides by going to Insert.
8
Here we have Zoom and you have three options:
9
A Summary Zoom, a Section Zoom and a Slide Zoom.
10
A Summary Zoom, if we click on it and we select for example
11
three slides, it will automatically create
12
this Summary Slide, and the problem with this is that it
13
automatically creates those sections for us,
14
for example, I didn't want to have a section here.
15
So, the Summary Zoom just creates this little slide
16
and then you can click on those slides, and as you see,
17
this is the little Prezi effect.
18
I can click on a slide and then, when I right click,
19
I'm going to, like, the next slide,
20
it will automatically zoom out.
21
We can also do this with Shift Left.
22
So, this is the great feature about the Summary Section.
23
I will delete this.
24
I want to show you what's the better usage of this.
25
By going to Insert and Zoom, we have the Section
26
and Slide Zoom, and those are the most amazing features,
27
because if we select Slide Zoom, I can for example insert.
28
We already have slide four,
29
so let me insert slide five and six.
30
Insert, and as you can see those slides were inserted.
31
Later on, we will talk exactly of what that is
32
and how to use it, but here I just wanted to show you
33
that in the newest versions of PowerPoint, we can simply
34
click on slides, drag and drop them into a presentation,
35
and they will create those little zoom effects.
36
Here, for example on this slide, I created this road map
37
because this road map looks very similar to the example
38
from the question I got.
39
Here we have some road map and some informations
40
along the road.
41
The same which we have here.
42
Now, if I would play this presentation, Shift+F5,
43
I can click on any of those slides.
44
If I right click, they will travel to the next slide
45
if they are in order, or with my Shift and left click,
46
I can zoom out back of the slide.
47
This is why this feature is called Zoom, and in my opinion,
48
well I don't want to say that it is stolen from Prezi,
49
but it's amazing that Microsoft has an answer to this
50
Prezi function and natively built that in to PowerPoint.
51
This is what I wanted to show you about basics
52
of Zoom feature, now I want to talk about
53
the Morph transition and then I will show you practical
54
examples and we will work together.
55
You will be able to open this file, and we'll have some
56
fun in PowerPoint together, and I'll show you what
57
you can create with it.

--- MORPH - What is it ---

1
Okay, why am I talking about the morph function,
2
and the zoom function in one section?
3
Well, the morph and zoom function are still
4
relatively very new features.
5
There are some errors, there are some problems,
6
and those features are still not perfect.
7
But, the morph function in comparison with the zoom function
8
works a little differently,
9
because in the morph function,
10
we have the morph function in the transitions tab.
11
It will be the first transition.
12
We can click on morph,
13
and on the right side we also have the effect options.
14
We have objects, words, and characters,
15
and they work exactly as they seem.
16
The morph transition transitions to the next slide,
17
and tries to use the objects from the previous slide
18
to create the next slide.
19
The best explanation of this feature is
20
if we create a new slide - let me show you.
21
I will quickly insert a circle,
22
I will duplicate this slide,
23
and I make the circle, for example, bigger,
24
and I place it somewhere else.
25
On the second slide,
26
if I go to transitions and select morph,
27
you can see PowerPoint takes the information
28
from the previous slide, and tries to morph
29
the new slide to the new object.
30
What if, for example, I have two objects here,
31
and only one object on this slide?
32
Well, PowerPoint has a little shortcut.
33
In that case, this second object will simply fade in.
34
Look at that.
35
We have this slide.
36
We morph to the next slide.
37
You see one object morphs,
38
but the second object just simply appears.
39
Why?
40
Because on the previous slide,
41
there are no infirmations about this object.
42
So this is where PowerPoint tries to fill in the gaps.
43
Later on in, once I show you the examples,
44
it will come more and more clear to you.
45
In this picture, for example,
46
I use the picture here on this slide,
47
and on the next slide I simply took this picture
48
and I just made it bigger,
49
I shifted the picture to another place.
50
So if I use morph on this position,
51
PowerPoint looks at this slide,
52
and by transitioning to the next slide,
53
he knows, "Okay, we have a picture here,
54
and on the next slide we also have a picture,
55
so I will simply extend the picture to this very place."
56
This is because those are the same pictures on both slides.
57
Do not worry if this sounds complicated right now.
58
It will all become clear once you work with it a bit
59
if you have the newest PowerPoint version.
60
If you do not have the newest PowerPoint version,
61
I still strongly encourage you to watch this section,
62
because it will be not only beneficial,
63
but it will open your mind
64
for the future features of PowerPoint,
65
and someday you will surely upgrade,
66
and you'll already know that something like this exists.
67
Okay,
68
let me go, finally to the practical examples.
69
We will start the work,
70
and we will see what is possible to do here.
71
(calm music)

--- ZOOM - Practical Example ---

1
Okay, welcome to Practical Examples of Zoom.
2
I want you to download this presentation,
3
or if you don't, you can simply
4
create something very similar.
5
Just create five or four slides with different colors
6
and one slide, which will be the zooming slide.
7
Now, watch what happens here.
8
I have this slide and I want it to insert
9
one, two, three, four, five different like
10
road map items here on this slide.
11
In order to make this presentation interactive
12
because I'm already finished with my presentation.
13
I'll go to Insert
14
Zoom and I'll insert my Slide Zoom.
15
You can click on all three of them to check them out
16
but I'll encourage you to use the Side Zoom right now.
17
Create the Slide Zoom.
18
And I want slide four, slide five,
19
slide six, slide seven, those are consecutive slides,
20
and I'll take one different slide
21
just to show you the problems
22
and differences in the slides.
23
Okay, we have those five objects here now
24
because PowerPoint has added the Zoom It elements.
25
We can resize them and what is cool here
26
we do not have to use the graphic from the slide we have.
27
We can, for example, Right Click on this object
28
change image and we could use any image we want
29
for this little Slide Zoom.
30
We could, for example, have number one,
31
number two, number three.
32
We do not have to use those very slides.
33
But, in my case, I want to use the slides.
34
Okay, we have inserted those five items.
35
Now I want to go to the Zoom features.
36
Clicking here on the top Zoom.
37
You can see this gives me the number.
38
This is very important because I want to see
39
which slide goes after which slide.
40
Okay, let me start with four, make it smaller.
41
Five, five will go here.
42
Six.
43
Seven.
44
And a little different one, 12.
45
Okay, what would happen if I start this presentation?
46
I have those five Zoom Slides here.
47
Shift at five and I'm making
48
my presentation now very interactive.
49
I have this road map and I want
50
you to focus on the first slide.
51
Since this is Zoom Slide we can zoom by clicking on it.
52
The great feature here is that since those are
53
consecutive slides I can simply Right Click
54
and they will travel to the next slide.
55
Right Click, Right Click.
56
But what happens now?
57
After those slides you can see we have the yellow slide.
58
After the great slide it stopped.
59
We have slide number 12.
60
So this is the little problem with the Zoom feature.
61
If they are consecutive slides
62
four, five, six, seven
63
they travel from one to other.
64
But once we are on this gray slide
65
instead of going to the next one
66
it simply followed the presentation along.
67
This is something specific to PowerPoint
68
and as you can see, after seven
69
it simply went to eight, nine, 10.
70
A normal presentation started.
71
How can I solve this?
72
Well, you can solve this by starting the presentation,
73
by going to the gray one
74
and when you talk about this slide you can press Shift+Left.
75
It will go back and now I can
76
manually click to this very slide.
77
You can debate if this is convenient or inconvenient
78
but this is how currently this works on PowerPoint.
79
And you can always press Left to go back.
80
It seems that the Left button also works but
81
I saw somewhere on the shortcuts that
82
Shift+Left is also the way to go.
83
So this is how the Zoom feature
84
can work in a practical example.
85
And I want you to test it out.
86
Create, use my file or create any random slides.
87
Then go to the road map and either
88
drag and drop those slides here
89
or use Insert, Zoom and Insert a Slide Zoom.
90
I know this might be complicated but
91
for now we only have to learn how to
92
insert those slides into your presentation.
93
In the next slide I'll show you a great, awesome trick
94
which makes the Zoom feature a
95
real game changer for PowerPoint.

--- ZOOM - Why is it a game changer ---

1
You already know what the Zoom feature
2
can possibly master.
3
But you didn't know that.
4
Look at that.
5
If you want to zoom into any section or slide,
6
let me for example
7
zoom to the,
8
do I have the,
9
I have the morph section.
10
Alright, let me zoom to the morph section here.
11
I would go to insert, zoom
12
I would select section zoom.
13
Powerpoint would ask me
14
which section do I want to zoom into.
15
I wanted to zoom into the morph section.
16
I'll just select it, and I'll insert this section.
17
Okay I have it here on my little monitor on the slide,
18
and what is a game changer in my opinion is
19
that in the zoom features, you can click on
20
zoom background.
21
They should name it remove background or
22
show transparency, but they didn't.
23
If you click on zoom background,
24
you can see Powerpoint stops displaying
25
this regular ugly background or any background
26
that we have.
27
It makes the slide transparent, and this makes this feature
28
totally amazing because
29
now once I shift at five, I have this cool slide,
30
and once I click on this,
31
I'm going to a completely different section
32
in Powerpoint.
33
Now this is for the morph example later.
34
You can see we can create cool animations like that.
35
And look how cool.
36
I can jump in my presentation in one click.
37
The same example, on for example this slide.
38
Let me go again.
39
Insert, zoom, and you will do this in the moment
40
so watch closely.
41
Go to this slide or any slide that you prepared.
42
Go to slide zoom or section zoom.
43
This is your call.
44
I will select slide zoom
45
and I want three slides here.
46
For example slide five, slide eight, and slide ten.
47
Insert.
48
So I have those three crazy slides.
49
I press my shift key.
50
I select all three of them.
51
I go to zoom,
52
and I cannot click the zoom background.
53
Yeah, the problem is,
54
I have to do this separately, but this is
55
not the big issue.
56
Zoom, zoom.
57
Okay, making it here.
58
I just make this zoom smaller,
59
and do not get discouraged that this looks a little weird.
60
It can look a little weird because this is only
61
basic information.
62
I'm placing this on top of those existing elements.
63
Here I could make a slide change.
64
Since this is a white background,
65
I maybe, hmmm.
66
Make the background here to be visible
67
and look at that.
68
We have a beautifully prepared chalkboard
69
with our slides.
70
I press shift at five,
71
and if this would be my presentation,
72
or for example at the very end of my presentation,
73
I would ask people,
74
Do you have any questions to this section?
75
Or this section, or this section?
76
You do not have to travel through your presentation.
77
You simply click here.
78
Alright, we are here.
79
I press left to go back.
80
And we can come here.
81
As you can see, it automatically morphs and transitions
82
and to be like to the original size.
83
If I go left, it travels back to its former self.
84
And this is a very, look at this.
85
The camera even turns together with the object.
86
So this is a really game changer for Powerpoint.
87
If you have an older version of Powerpoint
88
and do not have the zoom feature.
89
For example, you can right click on an object.
90
You can select link.
91
Insert link,
92
Not current folder.
93
Here place in this document,
94
and for example, link to slide five, okay?
95
So this would make the same feature.
96
Like it's not perfect, but I could link
97
clicking on this object, on this chalkboard,
98
and it would go to slide number five.
99
This isn't perfect, but previously we had to
100
do it like this.
101
But since the zoom feature is available, we can make
102
those cool transitions.
103
This is when it comes to the practical usage of the
104
zoom feature.
105
There are many many usages that we will explore
106
from now on because this is a very new feature
107
of Powerpoint.
108
You will not be great at the beginning.
109
I was also wondering,
110
What's really happening here?
111
Slowly I now understand this feature,
112
and I see great potential for the future usage of this.
113
Thank you very much for watching this lecture.
114
In the next lecture, I think we will go
115
to the morph function because it has also quite
116
impressive features.
117
And I will show you a few examples of what I did with it.
118
See you there, and let's stay ahead.

--- MORPH - Example and usage ---

1
Alright, we know a little about zoom,
2
and now I want you to know a little
3
about the morph function.
4
I'm telling a little because this feature needs practice.
5
I cannot explain it here in 20 minutes
6
and make you an expert in it.
7
Look what happens with the morph function.
8
You have to think when you use the morph function,
9
well, let me call it transition because
10
this is a simple transition here in the morph.
11
This is a very simple transition and it takes
12
information from the previous slide, like we see here,
13
and tries to transform the next slide into it.
14
Let me copy this over here from
15
scratch so you see what I'm doing.
16
What I did here, I wanted to enlarge this slide.
17
This particular object.
18
So I duplicated this slide, and now think about it,
19
why am I shifting those here up
20
instead of just deleting them?
21
Well, because this will look cooler.
22
If I would delete them and use the morph function,
23
look at that, Shift + F5, those would simply fade off.
24
But, if I take them and I put them above the slide...
25
let me delete this, you can see
26
they are now above the slide.
27
So you can already imagine what the animation
28
will look like since they are the same object.
29
Once I use the morph function on the next slide,
30
you see they nicely flow out of the screen.
31
Now I can enlarge this, of course the text
32
will need to be enlarged as well,
33
I'm pressing Control + ], Control + ], bigger, perfect.
34
Now by using morph on this slide, Shift + F5,
35
look at that, it will very nicely enlarge this text.
36
You can see in the text, the text still fades,
37
well this is the little problem with the morph function.
38
It takes information as good as it can.
39
So it doesn't always work perfect for all objects we have.
40
So this is the basic, what I wanted to teach you.
41
Your quest for this slide, or for this particular lesson,
42
will be to create a few objects.
43
For example, one, Control + D, Control + D,
44
we have three objects.
45
Then I want you to duplicate this slide,
46
change those objects completely different.
47
You can change their color, shape format,
48
shape fill, change their color, and look what happens.
49
I have changed their position,
50
or I delete one on the next slide.
51
I want you to create two slides like that,
52
and on the second slide I want you to go to transitions,
53
and if you have this feature, if you are using
54
the newest version of PowerPoint 365, 2019,
55
or any newer than that, click on morph
56
and watch what happens.
57
It's a beautiful, beautiful feature.
58
It can fade off objects, it can change the colors.
59
You will get familiar with this function
60
if you work on a few objects.
61
Click around on the morph function.
62
Here on the right side you also have words and characters,
63
but this will not work unless we have text here, blank text.
64
You can also insert text, insert a different text
65
on the next slide and see what happens.
66
This is the introduction to morph.
67
In the next lecture, I want to show you an example of
68
what I did with the morph function.
69
It will open up maybe your imagination
70
about the morph feature.
71
Thank you very much for watching this lecture,
72
and let's go ahead, create those few objects to train,
73
if you are able to have this function,
74
and if not simply go to the next lecture
75
and I want to show you something.

--- MORPH - New "!!" Feature is another Game Changer ---

1
Finally there is something
2
to be excited here in PowerPoint.
3
♪ Toss a coin ♪
4
PowerPoint is extending the capabilities
5
of the morph transition.
6
Now, how exactly are those capabilities being extended?
7
We had the normal article about Morph
8
and right now, we have a new article,
9
Morph transition: Tips and tricks.
10
The tip and trick here is that if we have two shapes,
11
photos or anything,
12
if we do two exclamation marks in its name,
13
PowerPoint will try to smoothly fade between those objects
14
when it's morphing from one slide to another.
15
This will make much more sense
16
if we are working in PowerPoint.
17
Just a few takeaways from this article
18
is we can force different shapes
19
to be morphed into each other.
20
We can force two images to morph.
21
So really a lot of cool things we can do.
22
Let me show this on an example.
23
I take any picture I see.
24
I just copy the graphic and I go right back into PowerPoint.
25
So let me show you.
26
I'm having a picture like that.
27
And on the next slide, I'm copying another picture.
28
So we have a picture like that.
29
Normally, if we have those two pictures,
30
we go do the Transitions, we click on Morph.
31
PowerPoint doesn't know that I want to smoothly morph
32
between those two objects
33
so PowerPoint simply fades in and fades off the new object.
34
That's the best he could do until now.
35
But currently we can go to Home,
36
either to Arrange and open the Selection Pane
37
or just select an open selection pane
38
and watch that.
39
We have picture number four.
40
If we do two exclamation marks
41
and I call it now picture1, for example,
42
then I got to the next slide
43
and I give it the exact same name.
44
This is very important.
45
I have to again go two exclamation marks, picture1.
46
Watch what happens.
47
If we go to Transitions and we now morph,
48
you see what happens?
49
It tries to smoothly morph between this object.
50
That's amazing.
51
I make take couple of examples here.
52
For example, I created a blob.
53
It's now hidden away here
54
and a shapey.
55
So this is a shapey.
56
And this is blob with two exclamation marks.
57
And again, blob and shapey.
58
Those are two different shape.
59
Well, PowerPoint won't be able
60
to like perfectly smoothly morph shapes
61
that have two holes in it
62
but watch the difference.
63
Without exclamation marks,
64
it simply disappears and appears.
65
But with given exclamation marks,
66
it smoothly transitions from one object to another.
67
So that's perfect.
68
What's even better is if we create like a triangle.
69
Then we go to a new slide
70
and we create another shape.
71
Let's do something very difficult.
72
I'm not sure that PowerPoint will exactly handle this
73
because we have many edit points here
74
but if I make exclamation mark, exclamation mark
75
and call it, for example, Mark,
76
I go back here and I do the same with this triangle mark.
77
When using morph, it will try to perfectly transform
78
into this new shape and what's more important,
79
this is a very difficult shape to transform.
80
Look at that.
81
We have like 12 or even more points here or 10 points.
82
We have so many points here
83
and on this triangle, if we right click
84
and select endpoints, we have only three points.
85
So PowerPoint had to mathematically estimate
86
where to put those points to make this transition
87
and blend perfect.
88
Thank you very much for listening
89
and I hope you like this little update
90
on the Morph feature.
91
(lively music)

--- MORPH - Zoom Into Parts of Your Slide ---

With this tutorial, I will show you a couple of ways how you can utilize the more feature to make this
type of zooming into your slides and into the elements that you've either designed or you have on your
slide.
A really simple and beautiful transition between elements, so it's worth watching and learning.
I will show you this on an example Jpeg file and on an example designed slide in PowerPoint.
For all this to work, you will need at least PowerPoint 2019 or the Microsoft 365 subscription, which
gives you the newest version because we need the morph transition.
If you do happen to have a slide like that and you'd like to zoom into the portions of the slide, there
is a very simple way of doing so.
You will take the slide and you will duplicate the slide with the existing item on it.
I'm just zooming out of the slide and I'm resizing this element to take a larger portion of my screen
because I want to focus on number one.
Then again, I click on this slide duplicate and I need to move it.
So it focuses on number two.
You will repeat the steps for each item you want to zoom in.
For example, if on the next slide, I'm Ctrl D again, you want to zoom in to the five, you will just
place that into the middle of the screen.
All right.
Do not make this any longer.
If you want to end the sequence, what I usually do, I take the very first slide where we have like
everything I press Ctrl C, I go to the very last portion of the section and I press Ctrl V to like
start and finish with the same type of slide You can see on the left side.
How does this look?
I'm just selecting the last slide shift, pressing the first slide, so every of those five slides are
selected and I'm clicking morph.
There is nothing more to it.
If you go to the first slide right now and I press F5, we will have the first original slide.
Now as I click to the next slide, it will automatically zoom, I mean morph into this section of the
image.
Then we had number two.
As I press the next slide, the next slide was number five, as you can see here.
And the next slide was returning to the basic option.
How cool is that?
You can zoom into portions of the of your slide and then come back to the original image.
The most important thing here is that we have the same object on all of those slides, on all of those
slides, we had this particular picture.
This is why the morph function work here perfectly.
Now let's go to example number two.
Let's say that you have designed a slide, a slide in PowerPoint like that.
And my little problem here is that I've animated this slide.
I've animated the slide because this was basically a ready slide to use like that.
But if we want to use the more feature, this might cause some problems.
So for that reason, I'll take the slide.
I go to animations, I open the animation pane and I just remove the existing animations.
Right now I can again, because I know that I want to focus on step number two, one, two, three,
four on each consecutive slide.
So I'm taking my original slide here on the left side, Ctrl D, I need all the elements to remain here,
so I'm selecting all the elements.
I move them away of the screen, but I want to keep them and I will just enlarge this step.
Number one, it will be a bit tedious and difficult to select everything.
I'll press my shortcut Ctrl and right bracket key to enlarge the text.
I'm not going into details right now to to move the text and to resize it.
It doesn't really matter.
I just want to show you the morphing technique.
Okay.
This would be step number one.
I'll take this slide and I press Ctrl D with all the same existing elements on the slide, but this
time I'll move this towards the top side.
I'll move this step one away and I move step number two here.
Okay, I'll press my shift key to make this equal.
All right?
And this is how you would go about morphing in a slide like that.
The text seems to be on a dark color.
No problem.
I'll just put it here.
I should make the text bigger as well, but this doesn't matter.
And once I'm ready, since I'm using all the same elements here, I can hover back again to the original
slide.
Let me take the original slide, Ctrl C and putting it as the last one, Ctrl V as the last one of this
sequence.
What is important here?
All the elements you see here.
They are still available on the previous slide.
They are outside of the screen, but they are still somewhere available If they will not be available.
Morph will have to simply fade those items in and this won't look so attractive if you want to use the
morph transition.
You want to keep all the elements on the previous slide because they will nicely flow into the slide.
All right, enough talking.
I'll select again the last slide.
I press my control key.
Pick, pick, pick and morph.
Transition.
All right.
How would this look?
I had my PowerPoint slide prepared.
I removed all animations, and I'm sorry.
It is advancing automatically.
That's sometimes a problem with PowerPoint.
I want to select the slides again.
I want to go to Transitions and I want to select on Mouse Click because I won't be in full control over
the the proceeding of the slides I remove after.
Okay.
Now PowerPoint will patiently wait until I click my mouse or my keyboard.
I want to go to step number one.
I would explain something to you and step number one would be the most important right now as follows.
Of course, step number two would be next.
And it beautifully morphs from outside of the screen because the step number two was under the screen.
Right now, we will go back to the original slide.
Everything will come back.
Everything will become smaller again and come from outside the screen.
Beautiful.
I will just show you an example If if on if this won't be available here.
If I delete this, the more function wouldn't know where to take this from, so it would be simply faded
in.
This doesn't look as attractive.
Look at those icons.
Those icons just fade in.
So it's a bit boring.
But if I press Ctrl Z to bring them back into PowerPoint, it looks much, much nicer because everything
is like coming together from different parts of the screen.
And I have a little bonus example here with a screenshot.
If you are like insecure of what you're doing and you have some troubles with animating different elements
in PowerPoint, a little workaround would be playing a slide.
Oh, pressing print screen.
And just ctrl v this screenshot into PowerPoint.
Having this screenshot here I can control, see the screenshot, I can select new slides and I can simply
enlarge the screenshot.
Yes, you will use lose quality and it wouldn't be as professional as we did here.
But you know what?
It's not as bad.
We can move this image like it's a bit difficult.
I always have to like resize, so I see the slide behind it.
And now step number four, maybe.
And now again, duplicating the last slide here.
In the last bonus example, I'm using a screenshot.
This is simply a screenshot and I will again enlarge to this slide.
Then we will move out and then we go back to the original slide.
A couple of examples how you can use the more feature.
I know this is difficult, but I just want to show you the potential.
Sorry for making this tutorial long.
I was just excited and wanted to show you everything here.
I'm ending it right now.
Thank you for listening.
Hope you've learned something and see you in other tutorials like this.

--- Conclusion - What is better ---

1
You could ask me,
2
so what is better? Morph or zoom?
3
Both are unique and the morph is a transition
4
so you need to consider that.
5
What's cool, you can take a picture
6
or anything from your slide
7
and with the morph function
8
you can enlarge a portion of the slide.
9
While with the zoom feature,
10
you can zoom entire slides.
11
So this is the major difference.
12
In the morph feature, as you can see
13
if enlarged the, the mug.
14
Then I enlarge the phone.
15
Then I brought back the original picture on
16
the fourth slide.
17
This, the end result, looks very great because
18
if I would explain you this one big slide
19
I would show you, look at the mug.
20
It seems amazing that it has a white inside.
21
Then we would go to the right side of the slide
22
and I would explain to you the different and various
23
other things here.
24
Then we go, would go back and this is the
25
entire overview of this slide.
26
I was also creating a course about creating
27
explainer videos
28
and I do not want to promote this course
29
in this place. I just wanted to show you
30
what I did with the morph explainer video.
31
I did a template.
32
Will this be the correct file? No.
33
This is the template for
34
people to work on.
35
This is the ready file that I created.
36
So look at it.
37
I was animating backwards.
38
I created a full slide with four shops,
39
and then I simply
40
duplicated the slide four times
41
and I made three shops,
42
no, okay, here are four shops,
43
three shops, but the one was still on the right side.
44
Two shops. One shop. And, the end result
45
by the usage of the morph transition
46
was like that.
47
That the animation started,
48
we had shot number one. Then the second shot came in,
49
because it's morphing, it's morphing,
50
it's morphing again, and it's morphing always
51
to the next stage. So,
52
the way to use the morph transition
53
is to create a complete scene
54
and then morph to smaller parts of the scene.
55
Then the explainer video continued with
56
other animations, so this wasn't
57
relevant to morph. But the big meaning of this animation,
58
was completely done using morph.
59
And I could, for example, from this place,
60
if I would duplicate it, I could morph again
61
and make this pizza palace again big.
62
Okay, you can see it's lagging because
63
those are big vector files.
64
And what would happen, can you imagine what
65
would happen, if I right click now
66
this pizza place will simply get bigger
67
and this is a completely beautiful animation.
68
In the past in PowerPoint,
69
we had to click on objects,
70
we had to use animations,
71
we had to open animations,
72
and we had to use the grow-shrink animation
73
to grow anything, and then use the line animation
74
to move objects. This was very inconvenient
75
because we had to do at least two complicated animations.
76
The line and the grow-shrink in order to create an
77
effect like this.
78
Right now we have this with one click.
79
So, do remember about morph.
80
You are creating a scene or a ready slide
81
and then you are zooming in to portions of the slide
82
with the morph feature. This is it
83
when it comes to explaining the morph feature.
84
I will leave..
85
I cannot say honestly that we covered the topic
86
because I could talk about this for a few hours and
87
show you multiple examples, but this is not the place
88
and the time for it. Many of you will not have the function
89
as of yet. One year or even two years have passed
90
since the morph function was released
91
so I slowly think more and more people
92
are gaining the access to it, and I should talk and
93
inform about it.

--- Hidden Recording Tab ---

This section will be also something super amazing because I want to basically teach you how to make
explainer videos and how to overall create videos with PowerPoint.
Yes, it's possible.
It's possible to create courses to run your YouTube channel or create any type of content regarding
video using only PowerPoint.
At first I would like to show you something which also not every PowerPoint user does know about.
It's not super important, but I want to get you to another level.
So as we have our ribbon system here, we can right click on any option and customize the ribbon.
And as you can see, I have already the developer tab here, which normally isn't here because we have
a few additional tabs here in PowerPoint, like the draw tab or the recording tab.
For the sake of this section, I want to utilize the recording tab.
It's not super important.
We can still find the options which we have in the recording tab somewhere around PowerPoint, like
in the slide show, for example, the recording.
And here if we look for those functions separately, not popular.
Let's for example, say we want to search for all and they are here.
I'm not entirely sure that the older versions of PowerPoint also do have this tab, but if you don't
have it, it's not super important.
I just wanted to show you that it's possible that Microsoft will now and in the future add something
here and you might not even know about, for example, the draw tab or the developer tab.
No one even knows about that.
So recording I've selected, recording and a new tab has appeared which is called recording with this
tab does it aggregates all the well approximately necessary functions which come close to video creation?
The most important here is the record slideshow about which we will talk in a second.
But the record slideshow is also to be found here.
Record slideshow in the recording.
Just as we have exported to video, we can simply go to file export, create a video.
So this function is here.
So as you can see, those functions can be found somewhere around PowerPoint.
But if we open the recording tab, we have everything in one place.
This is how I wanted to start this section.
I wanted to show you this tab and I want you to localize the screen recording options again.
I can guarantee that you will have this option because I'm using the newest PowerPoint version, PowerPoint
365 and some functions.
Some options are added in the newest versions of PowerPoint.
I have no way of looking into the older versions of PowerPoint because I don't use them anymore.
So.
But I believe.
But most of the functions we can find here will definitely also be in the 2013 version and in the PowerPoint
2016 for Mac version, the only problematic versions of PowerPoint are PowerPoint 2011 for Mac and those
older like 2007 and 2010 for Windows.
Those didn't have some functions like for example, some don't have the format painter, some don't
have the eyedropper.
When we select color, some even I guess the Mac version doesn't have the selection pane.
So this is often a problem.
All right, back to the recording.
In the next lesson, we will start and explore our functions.

--- Quick Screen Clipping ---

Let me briefly explain the screen clipping to you.
So in the recording tab, we have this screenshot in the background, I have two pages open, I have
even three pages open.
But let's say that these are two active windows.
If I go back to PowerPoint and I click on screenshot, I have two options here.
I can either quickly screenshot those those entire pages by clicking here and I have a screenshot of
the screen which I have opened.
And as you can see, well it's kind of weird because it clips the entire page we have.
So in my opinion, the better option here is clicking on the recording, clicking on screenshot and
clicking screen clipping.
You will need to wait until it grays out and now I can clip the part of the page I would like.
Like that.
You could say that this is a built in function in PowerPoint, but you can also do this differently.
And I'll show you how in a second.
So I have now a very clean screenshot in my PowerPoint slide.
So I did clip the screen only to the amount I need.
All right.
So this is one way of doing this.
If you don't have the recording tab and can find the screenshot, please go here.
Select more commands, select all commands and press.
S screenshot is very close here.
I have screen clipping like here so you can very quickly find screen clipping and add it to your PowerPoint.
This way, even if you don't have the recording tab, you should be able to access this option.
What else can you do like this?
Well, it's pretty obvious.
I can simply open this page and press print screen on my keyboard.
I don't have to do anything else.
I go back to PowerPoint.
I can, for example, click a new slide and I press Ctrl v, Ctrl V brings me my entire screen and then
I can simply go to format crop.
And as we did crop our photographs, I can crop it like that.
If you are creating some online content or are working constantly in pages and you want to paste screenshots,
so PowerPoint gives you the tools to do so.
If you don't have the tools, just press print screen on your keyboard and you can easily copy and paste
those screens inside of PowerPoint in one click.
That's what I wanted to show you about the screenshot option.
It's just a bit more convenient if we use those options instead of print screen because we can exactly
instantly clip the picture to our required size.

--- Screen Recording ---

Okay, These are just appetizers.
But PowerPoint now can also allow you to record a video of your screen.
But be careful what I'm doing now.
I'm recording the screen, for example, with a program called Camtasia.
And you have many of screen capturing programs which are professionally equipped for that.
The screen recording from PowerPoint is a very simple screen recording, and as you can see, I can
use audio, I can record my pointer.
Let's say that I will select the area which should be recorded.
I hit record.
PowerPoint is telling me how to do this, so I'm recording a video.
Now.
This will be a very simple and slow working video, and as I finish, I select my shift windows key
cue and I have the video finished.
I wouldn't recommend this as a basic tool to record your entire screencast because as I said, it's
pretty low quality and screen recording software.
Like for example I'm using here, works way better, way quicker.
But as you can see, if you only intend to have a few simple elements like you don't have, I have,
for example, purchased Camtasia because I need it professionally.
But if you are just starting out on YouTube or with content creation, you don't really need expensive
software.
You have PowerPoint, you have all the tools, you can take screenshots, you can take simple screen
recordings and you can paste them right into PowerPoint.
This video as you can see, has video tools.
We have the format which will format how it looks and we have the playback, which will which will work
with the playback options.
Like it can be a bit faded in.
We can start it automatically, we can insert some elements.
And what's very important, what I wanted to actually show you in this, in this part of the presentation,
this element is an animation.
Remember about that because we can go to animations, open up the animation pane and look, the video
should start playing with it.
I'll press shift F5.
You can see the video plays automatically.
It's kind of slow because it's slow, but it gets the job done.
It works, it plays.
I'll exit the slide now and you can see we have triggers.
I have a click trigger which will stop this video.
So if I click on this video, it will stop.
This is a simple animation.
We already did learn about triggers earlier, so you should know what's happening here.
I can now immediately see trigger clicking.
My mouse will trigger the stop.
As you see your animations not only fades, flies and so on.
We have media animations, so you can add a play, a pause and a stop animation, which is not an animation,
but a command for this video.
Let's say that you have no animation, so now the video would be inserted, but I would have to click
play.
But just as simple, I can click on the video and I can add a play animation to it.
Right now the play animation is happening on Mouse Click, and when I click my mouse, it starts to
play for the entire 13 seconds.
I want it to start automatically, so I select right click with previous.
So a zero appears and it starts as the first animation boom.
The video starts playing.
So as you can see, videos are not only possible to record in PowerPoint, but they have all the animation
tools applied as any other object.
So a video is basically an animation in PowerPoint.
Remember about that?
Because this is something very important, especially regarding what we will learn now.

--- Record Slide Show ---

Now comes the absolutely most important function in this section.
And that's why I opened our previous presentation.
We have this presentation prepared.
We didn't add transitions, but we have transitioning on mouse click.
We have all animations on those slides and I would like, for example, to record my presentation.
You will normally go to slideshow and click on record slideshow.
You, of course know that we have also record slideshow here in the recording tab, but let me select
the standard function slideshow and work with record slideshow.
I'm switching now to full screen recording because I want to show you all the possible functions.
Let me go to the first slide and let me record my slideshow.
Look what I have.
Some students have reported to me that they do not have this entire option.
Once again, there is nothing I can change about that.
I have PowerPoint 2016 from the Office 365 subscription and it gives me this screen.
Some of you don't have this black screen around and do not have the same options.
If you have another PowerPoint version, just don't worry about that.
Record slideshow should work similar.
I have really no settings apart from changing my microphone and my webcam.
And on the right bottom side, I can select if I want to sound be recorded and if I want my my webcam
to be recorded.
Currently I'm using my webcam to record this video so I can't open it, obviously.
Okay.
If you record your presentation, I, for example, start my recording and this is serious business.
This is basically how you create your animated videos, your explainer videos, which you will export
somewhere.
You remember that we have animations here.
I can see my timer on the left side.
We are already using this record slideshow option for couple of seconds as I click my mouse.
Our animation will simply play so I can click my mouse, I can explain and I can go forward if it even
needs more explaining.
Like I have the first point.
I have all my tools here.
I can select a red pointer.
Oh, sorry.
I can, for example, do something like that.
Do something like that.
And this will be recorded.
This will be on the video.
So sometimes you need your eraser tool and you need to erase those irrelevant things, which you did.
But currently I'm just proceeding with the animation.
I'm explaining you this video and let's say that you've prepared a super professional presentation which
you would like to upload to YouTube.
You are recording your slideshow, you are going on, going on, going on, you are recording since
I had my microphone opened.
Everything is right now.
Recording.
Okay, let's say that I want to stop at this slide.
Let me take a breather.
Let me take a small breath by hitting pause.
All right.
I could have a few seconds for myself, which wouldn't be recorded.
I can then continue the recording.
And if I finish everything.
I simply take my mouse and I select Stop the recording.
Currently, PowerPoint is taking the recording and PowerPoint did make a sound file out of that.
Let me exit this tab and look what happened on the first slide.
We have my recording.
On the second slide we have my recording and on the next slide we have my recording.
We stopped about here.
Right?
Okay.
So still we have the recording here, but here we don't have it.
What's the amazing part that I wanted to show you with this recording?
Look, for example, at slide one, I was explaining this slide.
I have this recording and in the transitions tab.
PowerPoint has automatically set how long this slide should take.
And this is super relevant when it comes to video.
I have made my recording for, for example, for six seconds here.
So after those six seconds.
Boom, this slide goes forward.
Why is that important?
It's very important because I want to export this to video PowerPoint.
I'll explain video exporting in a second, but PowerPoint will use those timings to determine how long
the video should be.
And you probably can imagine that.
What is that?
This is just another object as this is just as videos sound files have their playback options and they
are simple animations.
Go to the animation pane.
Look at that at the very beginning of this slide.
The first animation is the sound.
So PowerPoint is just saving us time because it takes the sound file, it records it, and it is putting
the sound file as the first animation.
Since this is the first animation, the slide will start with my talking.
I don't want to overlap the talking right now and I have my speakers set to zero volume so we don't
hear anything, but they are recorded.
Everything works.
We can even mute or louden the sound depending on how you want the video to turn out.
So that's why I was telling you that the record slideshow is super ultra important when it comes to
video creation.
This is the most important lesson in this section, and let me build up on that and show you a few things
more.

--- Links and Actions ---

All right.
Since I'm teaching you how to create online videos with help of PowerPoint, when we go to the beginning
of our presentation, like, for example, here and we have our insert tab here, we have our link and
action buttons.
And in my opinion, they are very important, especially when you are a content creator and create something
with videos and overall with such things.
Let me maybe select the slide number three.
And this is one object.
Just imagine if this would not be a picture.
And for example, the first picture will be go to slide five, go to slide seven, go to slide nine.
Why not do so Ungroup.
I have four ugly pictures now go to slide five.
This is just an example which I want to show you.
I will click on that and I can link.
I can insert a link to an existing website on on the web.
I can make a link to a place in this very document which I want to do.
In this case, I just wanted to show you how links work, but I can link to a YouTube video to your
website, to your Google account or to anything you want people to go by clicking here.
If you want to make your elements interactive or or just make those slideshows kind of work for you.
If you are explaining something, for example, you have your own links here and you would like to quickly
show people if you want, I can show you my website or where I got this information from.
Boom, you click, you go place in this document.
In this case, I would like to go to slide five by clicking on this object.
Okay.
Shift F5 to show you I have this slide.
Everything works as it did work previously, but as I hover my mouse here, this is one big link.
Click boom and I'm on slide five.
That's pretty beautiful.
Let me go back here.
Go to slide seven.
Yeah, go to slide.
I don't care.
It can.
It can stay alive.
What I also wanted to show you is not link, but action.
I believe action is even more amazing because it's again triggering the presentation.
It's not about being triggered.
It's about triggering certain actions within this slide.
Let me click on action.
Look what we got here.
And your quest will be to run through this and select every object and just select what you can.
You can select elements on mouse Click, which would be basically a link click or on mouse over, which
is even more amazing.
Action on mouse over hyperlink to slide number seven.
I want slide number seven so I can select slide URL and show custom show.
Last slide.
It's super amazing that we can do so many actions with this function.
I want the slide and I want the slide to be seven.
Right.
Okay.
Slide seven.
Okay.
Run program run macro object play sound.
Well, this gets a bit more advanced, but basically those hyperlinks are super amazing.
Now shift F5 if I just come close with my mouse here.
Boom.
It automatically takes me instantly to slide number seven.
How amazing is that?
That we can make our presentations, our videos, so interactive and work for us.
This is for us for content creators.
All the possibilities because we can.
Yeah, of course we can also select Zoom.
But this is a function which only the newest PowerPoint 365 version has.
I maybe will record another lesson about that because zooming option is something completely new and
you can drag and drop a slide here and this slide will be available to click here.
Boom.
That's something, something new.
And I can of course explain that to you.
But this will be for another lesson here.
I want to teach you about links, about actions and the Zoom feature, the new Zoom feature, if you
have it, if you have the Office 365 subscription, it will appear here as well in the links section.
So this is it.
When it comes to those beautiful options, which will really help us content creators to create videos
straight out of PowerPoint, go and play around, use both the links and the action on any of the items
in the presentation.

--- The Zoom Feature. Not There Yet ---

Okay.
Since I did show you a sneak preview of how the the Zoom option works, I have to continue and explain
it to you.
But I do not like to explain things which are not available to everyone.
And this time, this function, as far as I know until now and it's late 2017 is not even available
for PowerPoint 2016 users.
Only.
The PowerPoint 365 subscribers have this option and they didn't properly inform about that.
They made a video on their YouTube channel somewhere that the Zoom option appeared.
And I basically randomly here was a pop up box that, hey, it's a new Zoom feature, but this is a
totally great feature which should be maybe more deeply explained and showcased.
Okay, let me select a simple slide or I even will create a new slide.
Now, as you saw, as I drag my slide here in, it was available here.
I can drag and drop slide right away and they will be clickable.
Links.
This is good, for example, to create a slide which which has all the slides and you want to quickly
browse between them and you have quick links to those slides.
You can also change the image which is displayed here like I could, for example, right click change
image.
I could, for example, change the the visuals here so it isn't displaying this.
It should display, for example, slide one, slide two, slide three.
And those would be clickable links.
What else do we have?
You can see I did sections here and sections are very simple.
You just right click and create new section because I wanted to distinguish between the portfolio slides,
the our staff slides, the timeline slides and the zoom feature can link us to sections.
Look at that, we have a summary zoom, we have a section zoom and we have a slide zoom.
The slide zoom is something you already know.
We just select a slide and we put it here.
The summary zoom is a few connected slides.
For example, Let me summarize quickly what I want to show you.
I just wanted to show you the first the the middle slide and the icon slide insert.
And this would be a new summary slide.
It could be at the beginning of the presentation or at the end of the presentation.
And this would work like that.
I can click on those various slides, boom.
And the problem here is that I need to use a shortcut, which is shift and left click to go back so
I can click here and I can click left to go back to those slides.
That's super beautiful because I can very quickly navigate through the slides.
I have my normal animations, but as the slide finishes, it continues the presentation.
That's a bit of a problem.
So I need to press shift.
I need to press left to go back to the place I were.
This is the last slide, so it will progress naturally.
Here.
This is here shift, click left and I can go back.
Okay.
The last feature I wanted to show you would be the summary, not the summary.
It was the section zoom.
It's pretty obvious you just select the sections which this is now a new section Summary section.
PowerPoint automatically adds it, but I want the sections that I already had in this presentation.
Insert.
Look at that.
Totally weird.
We have six sections.
They are completely weird inserted here.
I wouldn't even know that these are sections.
Let me delete the background and those are normal clickable slides.
This would be good if you have a presentation and you want to quickly jump through the presentation
or do you have any questions to me, if you would be my audience?
Yes.
I would like to ask you a question about the portfolio slide.
No problem.
Wait a second.
Let me go here.
What questions do you have about this slide?
And I can simply navigate through it.
And as you can see, the presentation is progressing.
And if I'm finishing explaining this to you, I need to press shift left to go back to the state.
I were you probably remember when we had questions in our presentations and someone asked you at the
beginning of the presentation and you were like, Wait a second, wait a second, I need to go there.
Which slide are you asking about?
This slide, right shift F5 Okay.
What were you asking about?
This is unprofessional.
This takes time.
So I would recommend using links or I will recommend you using the zoom feature if you have it.
I don't want to explain more about that because there is nothing more to explain.
This is a very beautiful feature, but in my opinion it's not yet properly implemented into the PowerPoint
workflow.
I'm explaining this because I want you to be the best possible and professional PowerPoint user there
is, so you need to know about that.
You need to be aware that such a feature is around and maybe in the future it will be a normal steady
workflow.
To do this, but currently I wouldn't call this a super standard feature that everyone has, everyone
uses, especially the older versions of PowerPoint.
And from my experience, even it's ten years later, people still use PowerPoint 2007.
So definitely it will take a lot of years, a lot of time until this feature will be a standard.
We can make it as standard if we will use it and implement in our presentation.
But kinda.
We are not everyone else and everyone else doesn't know about that.
I don't want to overdo it here.
Let's leave it like that.
Let me continue with the section because I want to show you how to finally create a video out of the
the elements that we all put together, and then I'll show you a steady workflow how to create your
content easily in PowerPoint.
I hope this lesson was also very fun and informative for you.
I was just talking, but you don't have to do any quest here because the quest is obvious using the
zoom function.
But if you don't have it, then sorry, I can't do anything about that.

--- Exporting with Create a Video ---

Hey, now, finally, a simpler and more pleasant lesson about creating a video.
Creating a video is very simple in PowerPoint.
Once I have everything, especially the timings, because the timings in our transition tab is very
important.
But let's say that you were either let me go to slideshow, either recording your slideshow or rehearsing
your timings.
Creating a video is very important and easy in the recording tab we have here.
Export to video.
I have it added here because I believe this is a very important function and I have it at file export
and create a video.
PowerPoint 2013 had only this option 1280 by 720 and in my opinion that's this quality is not good enough
for current standards.
Luckily, PowerPoint 2016 is now updated and has now 920 by 1080, which is full HD and perfect for
YouTube, for publishing videos, for producing content, for creating videos for our clients.
Full HD is good enough and I am very happy that PowerPoint did decide to put this resolution natively
in their exporting feature.
The exporting is very simple.
We export either to MP4 or WMV file.
Of course, the MP4 is the golden standard.
And look at that.
How important it was that we had our timings use recorded timings and narrations don't use recorded
timings and narrations.
Second spend on each slide.
Five seconds.
How would this video look when each slide would have five seconds?
Well, it would be good to show you the presentation just how it looks, but it wouldn't be any good
if you would like to read, to listen and to to take something out of this video.
Really.
And the best thing here is, of course, I will select use recorded timing and narrations because I
have recorded my timings, I have recorded my sound, I have prepared everything to be exported to video.
I have beautiful animations.
I have nothing to be ashamed of.
I would create this video by clicking here and this is just a simple exporting MP4 or WMV presentation
itself.
Animated.
This is how my presentation is called.
I would press save and on the bottom it's creating the video.
So basically it is now rendering your presentation.
It's pretty quick as far as rendering goes.
So PowerPoint is a very efficient and easy tool.
Bear in mind that this will be not the highest possible quality in the world when it comes to creating
videos.
It's not 60 FPS, 4K quality, super sharp video, it's 25 frames.
As far as I know, it's just a normal simple export, but it's still very beautiful and this is a good
way of creating videos and content in PowerPoint.
In the upcoming lesson, I would like to show you the process.
For example, we will take a few slides, we will record the slides and then I will export a ready video.
And this video could be exactly ready to publish on YouTube or anywhere else.
This will be a practical example.

--- How to make a Complete Online Video ---

Okay.
Hands on real PowerPoint video creation.
Now I will select maybe the two nicest sliced.
We have the very beautiful people slides our staff with shift click.
I will select both slides.
I'll press Ctrl C and create a completely new video with them.
Let me press file new and select a new presentation.
Let me place it properly, just ctrl V because I want both slides here and those slides are very similar.
So let me maybe quickly change the color of those so I'll know what's happening here.
Format object.
It was the fill, right?
The gradient fill.
Okay, let me select it to be a bit more red.
That's perfectly enough.
I just wanted to have a possibility of distinguishing those videos.
All right.
I'm prepared for the recording, recording or slideshow and hit record slideshow.
Currently we have after zero seconds.
No transitions are recorded.
I want this video to take about one minute or 40s.
I don't know.
We will see how this will turn out and what you need to remember the first animation press shift F5.
The first animation will happen automatically, so I need to bear in mind that she will be visible instantly.
Slideshow Record Slideshow.
We don't see it on the screen.
I'll hit record and I'm preparing for my super first recording.
You don't see it, but the first animation has already happened.
Well, it happens that this is the part of the recording, but the first animation she is already being
revealed.
This is a PowerPoint error which the Microsoft developers should know about because the recording is
very important.
And as I click my mouse instantly he is being revealed.
I didn't notice that she was revealed, but I know.
Yes, the recording in PowerPoint has an error.
She was previously already visible because the first animation happens automatically.
Okay, I'm blabbing around.
I can even write something, but I don't really want to.
I wanted to introduce Tom to you.
Penelope is also a part of our staff and she's super effective at working at what she works on.
I completely don't know what she does.
Okay, let me proceed to the next slide.
The next slide could be explained just as the slide before I'm blabbing away and I can reveal those
people with those super clicks.
If you did like my content and the way I taught this tutorial, you can always subscribe to my channel
for more.
I'm enjoying to create those videos, so I hope they are as well beneficial to you.
And thank you very much for listening and for staying tuned until the end.
See you in the next video.
Bam.
I would now stop the recording press.
Stop.
Let's say that this is a good take.
I'm at least assuming that I'll close my recording.
You can see.
Boom!
40s.
It's a bit more than I wanted here.
50s.
Yeah, and this is when you are creating one minute videos.
They turn out two minutes and you are blabbing around without any necessary information.
I can always go to playback.
I can trim the video and I can say to myself, Sorry, this video was supposed to be one minute long.
I will cut down the last 30s, which will in this case make the way I taught this tutorial.
It will make no sense.
But okay.
30s.
The problem will be the transition.
Transition after 30s no more, no less.
The same goes for the second slide.
The limit was 30.
I want to be super precise here.
Okay.
39.
Let it be 39.
Playback trim audio.
I'll trim the audio 39 no matter if I cut myself in the speaking and that's it.
I have two slides one minute and 10s file export, create a video and we see each other in a second
when the video is rendered.
All right.
It was rendered in no time.
We have a ready video.
I can click on the presentation
and a completely prepared video is here.
Okay, I will make this not as loud.
We have the video and after the 30s I'm cut down.
Yeah.
And the problem is that I was still recording about that and I did click on those pictures a bit until
I proceeded.
So it takes the fully 50s to play now the next slide.
Boom.
But basically we did create a video from scratch in PowerPoint.
We did use two slides.
We did record our sound.
I can still recommend you to use third party software to record your screen, to record your videos,
to record your sound, because PowerPoint isn't the most powerful sound recording device or video exporting
program.
But as you can see, something like that, if you are starting out, can be done.
You can make explainer videos, you can make simple bullet point videos or informational slides.
If this will be connected with well done design, then I'm ready to watch your videos.
The problem with people who only use PowerPoint is that they make simple text slides.
They make just bullet points, just informations.
And the design part is completely flat, completely left out.
Just simple, simple designs.
They place their logo and it's ready.
In this course, I will teach you a lot of design, a lot of ideas and practical appliance of those
slides.
So I hope you will follow those guides, follow those rules and we can still continue on other designs
as I will add new lessons here.
But for now, this is the topic of recording lessons in PowerPoint and I hope this was super enjoyable
for you.

--- Looping Video Background ---

Hader If we are going to talk about video, at first you need to learn how to make a plain video background.
Now, in my resources I have a few looping videos and a few normal videos.
I will select any of the looping videos.
Let's, for example, use the bloodstream.
All right.
I want to position it in the middle of the slide.
Okay.
Now we have this video exactly in the middle of the slide and this video.
What's cool about it that it loops, which means that if the video ends and it starts, you don't even
see that because it is a loopable video.
Okay.
You can find those on Google or you can purchase videos like that.
You just type in Loopable video.
Okay.
How to make them play properly.
Please go to animations and open up the animation pane so we see what is going on.
By default, if we enter a video PowerPoint will set it to play on.
Click and stop on click.
But actually, I would like this video only to play automatically, so I will delete both of those animations
here.
I will click on the video and I'll click play.
Okay.
Right now it would play when I click my mouse, but I would like right click to play with previous.
So I have a little zero here and if I play the slide this video will play.
Let me preview that.
I'll even show you with my mouse.
Okay.
The video slowly is the video has nine seconds or about 10s.
So let me wait.
Okay.
And you see the first problem, it doesn't loop.
So where is the mistake?
Click on the video and the next thing you need to set properly is the playback options.
When we go to the playback options, we have the video options available.
Yes, it is starting automatically, but we also have to set loop until stopped.
This is a very important feature.
Okay, perfect.
Now this video would play and play and play and you need to keep something in mind on those slides.
You can place anything you want.
For example, I will take the element from our original presentation.
I will place them in the middle of the screen and they will work.
You just need to be aware that if I edit something here, I replace it.
I work with the icon.
Sometimes you can click by accident on this background because this is a big item in the background
of your presentation.
Now, actually this looks very cool.
I really like this.
I will play this presentation F5.
Totally amazing.
A video like that in PowerPoint and this video is playing and soon it will loop and play from the beginning
where we saw this brief stop.
This is because PowerPoint needs to render for quarter a second and then it plays the video again and
again.
You can barely see it right now.
You didn't see it because my computer already has that in his memory that it should replay this video.
This is it.
When it comes to creating Loopable videos in PowerPoint, you only have to set two options.
You need to make the animation.
Start with previews.
You need to go to the playback options and remember to set loop until stopped.

--- Playing and Advancing Multiple Videos ---

Okay, Let me go one step forward.
Let's say that I have my looping background already here and I want two videos to play on this video
on the left side and on the right side, kind of like a YouTube outro or something like that.
I will go to my example videos and I'll simply take two videos into the design.
At first I need to make those videos smaller.
Okay, like that.
And this one as well.
I would like them to be the same size.
Okay, perfect.
Now, I have two videos here.
At first I would like to make them simply play automatically.
For that, I will go to animations and I will click on play.
This will automatically override all the animations.
I can now right click and select width previews.
I will delay them a bit.
And now you need to remember what is happening.
This video in the background is looping with those videos would only play once and they would stop.
So you need to very carefully take that into consideration if you want to play them automatically.
If you want to play them by clicking on them, it all depends on what you actually want to do in this
video.
Okay, I had to change the video, but both of those.
I press shift F5 to start from this slide.
Both of those videos will start to play after a few seconds.
They will not loop.
One has stopped, the second has already stopped.
And if this would be a presentation, this would be okay because I can click on it and this video will
repeat.
But if this would be a video for YouTube or something like that, I would rather want those videos.
I would click on them.
I would click on playback and I would perhaps loop them until they are stopped because it depends how
long you want the slide to play.
Then I would go to Transitions.
I would transition to slide after a few seconds and everything would be okay.
Let me select a new slide here, just for example, and let me see if everything will work.
Now you can imagine another problem and this is something can you now tell me, why did it take more
than five seconds to advance to the next slide?
I've already talked about this.
Animations come first.
Animations are higher in the hierarchy when it comes to PowerPoint, so animations need to finish and
then the transitions can kick in.
The five seconds have passed about here in the middle of the video, but the slide could not advance
until this video stops playing.
Because this is the entire animation.
And this is another problem I know with videos that they have only this play button here, but actually
we need to remember how long they are.
This video is eight seconds long.
This video is nine seconds long.
So I need to bear in mind that until this time passes, so 9.4 seconds and an additional delay, which
I said, I said a zero 75 delay.
So it's about, well, ten, 11 seconds before this time passes.
The slide will not advance to the next slide, no matter what options we have.
This is something to keep in mind when working with videos in PowerPoint.

--- Changes you can make to videos ---

Okay.
This was maybe common knowledge.
You probably know that you can add videos, you can add videos into videos and render them together
like I did here.
But did you know that this video is an object like every other object?
Let me do something cool here, which rarely anyone does.
Let me go to the format window and now I can explore a few options.
You can see I have those basic design options for videos and for pictures.
Well, they are not the worst, but the more advanced, the intense they are called.
Here intents are the little 3D options and they start to make this video really cool.
Let's, for example, select a canvas like that.
And what's cool about this, I'll close the animations because this is not my focus in this lesson.
I can right click on it, I can select format video and I have all the sizes and proportions available
here so I can go to the size and properties, to the size, to the position.
Not only can I change the position, I can also change the rotation on this item.
Let me go to the effects and we have the 3D format and 3D rotation.
Those effects, those skewed effects are related to 3D and you can see we can adjust the bevel, we
can adjust the depth, we can adjust the material on which it's set.
It means the sides here with I love the rotation.
The rotation is completely awesome because it creates a very unique effect when it comes to designing
in PowerPoint.
How often do you see videos like that on YouTube, for example?
I want to up the perspective a little bit.
I would like to take the home format painter and paint this format over.
I would just like to turn this inside.
So let me change this.
I can also use those buttons.
I'll change this video.
All right.
And look at that.
I have two amazing videos right here.
And this is something completely unique.
I can even go higher than that.
You could click on this video in the normal format tab.
You can do this here, but you can also do this on the format and home tab.
It depends on how do you like to work.
You also have the solid line Let's maybe create something red Boom, We have a red line here.
You could make this bigger to create a completely unique effect.
You could select a gradient line, you could do a different gradient, which would be, well, maybe
more connected with those colors, which we already have in this video.
Let me select with the eyedropper, something like that.
And look how cool that becomes.
Not only that, not only those borders are cool, but you can do every other effect there is.
You can go to effect, you can go to shadow.
You can also make the shadow red just to make it a tiny bit more, more crazy, more advanced.
Now I'm giving it too much options, but I'll go back to the shadow and I will blur the shadow.
You can see here in the background, it's barely visible because this comes in place.
So you need to keep in mind that you have those all those presets, all those effects are available.
You can simply click on the preset.
Then you change the color of the preset and you get something completely different.
I'll close the shadows and maybe I'll go to reflections.
You can select a reflection and you can change the sizes here of the reflection.
But this is too much of options.
You can change the glow or the glow is also cool.
You could select a big, big glow.
You could make this glow red.
And look at that.
We would have a shadow, a reflection, a glow.
And something like that is very rarely to see, especially in PowerPoint.
Now I'll press shift F5 and look at that.
Those videos are still normal videos.
They still play normally, but we have completely different boxes.
This looks like a high quality TV would be set here.
Well, I don't really like what I did on this object.
The border is too crazy, but I just wanted to show you the possibilities that those are not only animations
in PowerPoint, but these are simple objects.
They are nothing different than a normal box.
A normal box can be given a new color.
You can go to the shape effects, you can add those effects glow reflection, shadow, but you can do
the same on this object.
You click here you go to its format, you have the video effects, you have the shadow, the reflection,
the glow, the soft edges.
Well, the soft edges make it a bit blurry on the outskirts of this video.
It isn't so cool, but it's all possible.
You can access this both here in the format tab or on the right side of the video, and it works really
well.

--- Placing Videos into Mockups ---

For this lesson, I prepared a couple of mock ups.
Now, you may think that this is irrelevant what I teach you here, but how could we place a video inside
those boxes?
There are a couple of ways we can do this.
These are normal images which I imported into PowerPoint.
You can find mock ups like that on the web.
You can download them and you can place them in your presentation on any of your works.
How could I place a video here?
I would take my video, for example, my rocks, and there would be a couple of ways how I can do this.
At first I would make the video a bit smaller.
I would, of course turn it over so it looks a bit better inside the screen.
Then I would click on it.
I would click on crop.
I would try to crop it just a little bit so it aligns a bit better crop.
I could eventually go to right click format video.
I would close everything and I would select my effects tab on the effects tab.
You have all the options here and you can select 3D rotation and you can, for example, rotate the
video a little bit so it will look better on the computer screen.
The other way around.
Look at that now.
Well, it's not perfect, but at least it looks fairly decent, a bit skewed.
So at least it's a bit aligned with the video screen.
Maybe I would turn that aside and I will show you another trick, which I often use if I want to do
a mock up.
I press alt two to create a shape.
I press a rectangle and I place the rectangle here since my shape options are already opened, let me
close the line.
I want the transparency.
I'll come closer.
Now I have this here and I'll try to align all the corners.
This is very simple because on shapes I can right click and I can select edit points.
Now I'll place this point here, this point here, and the last point here.
Beautiful.
What you can do now.
You can click on the image.
You can with the shift key, click on the new object we prepared and on the format tab you have merge
shapes.
I'll simply subtract them.
So now this video is empty inside.
You can see that.
And this is a perfect setup because now I can take the video, I can right click on the video and I
can send it to back.
Boom, a playing video within the laptop.
Now, how do we crop it?
It's a matter of a few adjustments, but remember, you can always click on the video, right click
format video, and here you have the effect options.
Sometimes if you open several boxes at once, it's hard to find.
What do you need to edit?
So always, always close everything.
Now it's easier to find.
Okay, I wanted the 3D rotation.
I'm watching the video.
I'll rotate until I see.
All right.
This looks good.
Then I would go to animations.
In this part you are already familiar with it.
You go to the animation pane instead of those animations, you click on play.
If you want this to be looped, you go to playback and you loop it until stopped.
And if I would like this laptop to be bigger, I would select everything.
I would press Ctrl G and with my shift key, I would make this entire design bigger.
So it still covers my slide.
Once I have the size and the animations, I would press shift F5 and I would have a playing video background
in the back of this laptop, a cool technique, something useful to know about.
And I hope this lesson did teach you a lot of useful PowerPoint tricks.
And just by the way, you can do the same on the phone.
You could make a phone, you could make the video play inside of it because I've cut out the middle
of the phone.
It looks very cool, completely unique.
And no one would believe that we did this only using PowerPoint.

--- Chart #1 - Chart Basics ---

Within this section, you will gain a lot of insights about working with charts in PowerPoint.
This is a very important feature, and there are different caveats about PowerPoint charts that I want
to teach you.
You can open the exercise file if you want to work with me.
We have one set of data.
We have the ready example.
So you can see what is the end result we want to achieve here and here within the practice slide.
It's time to work okay.
Let us start.
If I zoom out a little we have different tasks to perform.
The first task is insert a stacked column chart.
Now let me first grab the data.
I'll grab the data and I will Ctrl C and Ctrl V.
These are fruit sales between different years in million units.
We have apples, bananas and oranges.
I will just ctrl c it into my clipboard and I will be ready to work.
To insert a chart inside of PowerPoint.
You can use the given placeholder if it has that feature, or go to Insert Chart and select the appropriate
chart.
This time we will use the column chart, and I want to go for the second chart because I want all the
data for one year stacked on top of each other.
Okay, I'll select okay.
Now we can input our data set.
I will click on the very first cell and press Ctrl V.
Everything will be pasted in.
Let me close and we can now start the work.
Okay.
We completed the first one.
The second one is edit chart data.
I want you to know that the data you have just entered into PowerPoint can be adjusted at any given
moment.
You can either click on the chart, right click and select Edit Data.
It will bring you back to the underlying Excel data or by having the chart selected, you can go to
Chart Design.
And within the chart design we have select Data and Edit Data.
You can click here to edit the data again.
Okay you have learned now the basics.
Now change the bar color using the legend to change bar colors, we can either use the legend or click
on the bars directly.
Let me use the legend, for example apples, bananas and oranges.
Okay, so let me click on apples.
Click once more to directly select only the apples.
And now I can go to my filling options.
I have a shortcut here, but if you don't you can always go to format and you have all the formatting
options here.
You can change the color.
We have those colors in this theme that I've selected and I'll select the sample color.
Now we have three different colors okay I'll bolden that again.
So this is complete change individual bar color.
You must know that when you click on something within the chart by clicking on it, once you select
the entire group, you can see those blue circles inform you what is selected.
But if you click once again, only this one bar is selected and there are situations where you want
to highlight a specific data point or something specific within your chart.
That way you can go to format and you can change the individual color for that.
For example, to red, to inform you that there was a decline this year or anything else that I want
to showcase.
When working with colors within any type of chart, you always need to keep in mind that green and red
very often inform about a raise or a decrease of something.
Okay, I will just change the color to blue.
Just so we see that it is possible to change an individual elements color, just like we selected the
legend by clicking again on it, we've selected one series of it.
The last thing for this lecture will be add data, labels or anything else.
To add anything into a chart, you can click on the chart and on the windows version you have this plus
sign next to it.
With this plus sign, you can select whether you want the axis well, very often you want them the titles
or data labels.
Let me select data labels.
This is one way of doing it.
But alternatively, for example, on the Mac version I don't have this plus sign.
So you can go always to chart design and you have add chart element and you can add anything here.
Axis chart, title data labels.
Everything that can be added into a PowerPoint chart is exactly here.
If you can see the data labels, I can select none center or inside and or somewhere else.
All right.
I will select center, those dark ones.
We cannot see them.
So you can click on them.
And they are acting just like any normal text box.
So you would go to format text fill.
And I would recolor them to white to make them visible.
Okay.
This is everything for the first lecture.
In this lecture I want you to insert a chart, insert data labels, and just play around a little bit
with the possibilities of adding or removing something.
After a while, you will know all the features that can be added or removed.
Here, let us go to the next lecture where we continue our tasks.

--- Chart #1 - PowerPoint Chart Features ---

We continue our work on the chart to make it look similar to this one.
Okay, now make y axis display more values.
You can see we have values of ten, 20, 30, 40.
But what if we want it every five?
For example steps because here we have 15.
But if we wouldn't have the data labels I wouldn't really see.
Well it's above ten but below 20.
What is it exactly?
So let's assume that I don't have the data labels for them.
And I will click on this axis.
Right click format axis.
Here I go directly to its formatting options.
We have not only the normal like with every other PowerPoint shape, the filling options, effect options,
and sizing options.
We also have this axis options.
Because this is a chart.
Here we can actually select directly items from a chart, but I prefer just to click on them.
It's far easier to understand than all those titles here okay.
Axis options for the bounce we have from 0 to 80 and for units, we have major units ten.
I will change them to five.
I'll press enter and you can see we have more of those right now.
But the entire chart became a little bit more cluttered with with information.
So you need to be very careful about that.
I'll leave it as a tutorial purpose, but I don't really like that right now.
Since we have data labels, I would probably skip this axis entirely, but it always depends on how
you want your chart to look.
Make horizontal lines less visible.
Okay, the horizontal lines are a bit obstructive right now in my opinion, so I want to click on them.
You can also if you don't click on them you can select them.
Here.
They are called major grid lines.
And you can take the major grid lines.
Those are normal line fillings.
And you can increase their transparency by increasing their transparency.
They become less visible.
And I do very, very often when I work with charts, I very often make the grid lines less visible.
Okay.
Beautiful.
We have this less visible now.
Change the gap width between series.
Some charts have specific options like a column chart.
Because those are columns.
We can change the width of them by clicking on any of the series and going here to the options.
We have.
The series overlap so we can change the overlap and we can change the gap.
We can reduce the gap a little if we want them thicker, or we can increase the gap if we want them
very narrow.
I'll make them like that.
We want to make this chart a little smaller soon.
So let's work on that.
Reorganize legend and chart title.
Now I prefer if the chart title is on the left side.
I will reorganize the legend and I can either remove the legend or I can move it around.
I can make it, for example, bigger like that.
And I can also change the size of the chart.
Now I'm always clicking on the top border of it.
This way I can make the chart itself smaller.
We are still within the chart group, meaning that if we resize the chart group, everything will move.
But within the chart group we have the chart, we have the title and we have the legend.
Sometimes you can make the legend bigger, you can increase the size of it and you'll get a result like
that.
Now as you can see, we are very close to what I did here.
I also bolded the axis here, and those are just little design elements that you will learn throughout
this section.
So do not worry about it.
You can edit those just as any item here in PowerPoint.
You can increase the size, but as you can see, the increments of five are making a little problem
right now.
You know what?
I will change it to every 20 so I don't have to watch this.
All right.
Those are the basics about charts within PowerPoint.
Those two lectures were needed to bring you up to speed and give you the proper foundation about working
with charts.
Thank you very much.
Let us go to the next exercise.
It will be a real world appliance of everything you've learned so far.

--- Chart #2 – Features ---

In this and the upcoming lectures, we will work on a chart like that.
I took inspiration from the Investor Relations presentation from Palantir, and if you have ever heard
about the American stock market, I think you know what Palantir is.
I just loved their presentation.
It is so clean, so beautiful, and so understandable in its simplicity.
Especially, the charts are a thing of beauty.
There are a lot of tricks and you can absolutely do them in PowerPoint.
Now let us work on something like that.
This is your working area.
I want you to go to slide number three.
All right I'll take the data Ctrl c and I'm ready to work.
This is a chart.
I will this time use my placeholder because this is a template specifically for charts.
We will use a column chart.
It will be the most appropriate to show the change of revenue over time.
And the clustered column is completely fine.
Okay.
By default we have three series here, but we have only one series.
We have one type of revenue growth.
What you can do you can of course close that down.
And now only one is displayed.
All right.
Number one will be remove horizontal lines.
We don't see them because they are white lines on a bright background.
But if I move the background we can see the horizontal lines.
We can remove them either by clicking on them and just pressing delete or from the plus sign you can
remove them.
Here.
Let me put that back.
I have my my options here.
Okay I'll put this a little lower and we can continue the work.
Recolor the last bar to a different color.
I think you already know where this is heading by clicking once.
I've selected this entire series by clicking a second time, I selected only this part and I can now
go to format, shape, fill, and use my predefined color from the color scheme that I have present.
Okay, beautiful.
We completed the second task, remove the legend.
Nothing simpler than that because we already have the labels in the bottom axis.
I don't need the legend whatsoever.
I'll press delete again.
Remember you want people to understand your chart, not be overwhelmed with information on them.
Okay, beautiful.
Add data labels above bars.
Make them larger.
Okay.
Data labels.
You know how to add them either with a plus sign or from the chart design tab.
I'll add data labels, but I'll make sure they are outside and I want them to be above the bar because
later we will change their formatting to display dollars and millions.
I will show you how to do this.
Okay, I can take them directly and I can increase their size, just as I would work with any type of
text in PowerPoint.
Use a black color for the x axis.
As you can see, we have a black line here on the bottom.
And the way you can do this, you can click on the bottom or on the left axis.
Let's do the line on the bottom right click Format Axis.
And from the format axis features go to the filling options.
We have the filling and the line options.
You want to open the line options.
And here you can increase the width to, for example, 125.
Change the color to black.
And I really like a thick line here.
Okay, we have a thick line.
We could do this on the left side just the same way.
I'll go to the filling options.
I'll close the filling options.
So we have a little less items here.
125 black.
Okay.
Beautiful.
Now we made something like that change title to Q4 20.
We have 2050 here Q4 2050 revenue growth okay.
I want the title to be like that.
And very often remember, when you work with data you need to know what is what in million USD.
This would be preferable.
What I like to do, I like to bolden the first type of the first part of the title.
This way.
I just like the design and how this looks on a chart.
All right.
Beautiful.
In the next lecture, I'll teach you how to change the formatting.
And this will be a crucial lecture to understand.
And this will make the advantage between you and regular PowerPoint users.
Stay tuned and let's go there.
Us.

--- Chart #2 – Formatting Data Labels ---

In this lecture, we will format the data labels to be displayed differently.
And I am so excited to teach you this because this will make such an advantage between you and any other
PowerPoint user that you know.
You can click on data labels, right click Format Data labels, right.
We are within the data labels, and any number and anything that is typed on a chart has its number
formatting.
You can open the number formatting and PowerPoint can help you with that.
I have this in polish, but it will be in your language.
You can change it to number currency accounting.
Well we want currency right because we want US dollars here.
So I will change this to currency.
By default it will display my native currency which is a Polish zloty.
But I'll reduce the decimal places.
Remember I'm taking inspiration here from Palantir and their presentation is just perfect and this is
what I want to achieve.
Let me change the symbol to dollars and what has happened now here on the bottom you see something like
format code.
Don't worry, it isn't as complicated as it looks and you can always use the predefined ones very often
use date, currency or just a number.
Now format code.
The first part informs you that dollars are being displayed.
The second part informs you how numbers are being displayed.
Three numbers are displayed like that.
Zero is here, so when the value is zero, something is visible.
Because if.
If the value would be here zero for this fourth quarter and there wouldn't be a zero here, it would
display nothing.
All right.
So we have zero.
Then we have one space bar between them.
So that means that if we get a value of 1000 it will have one space bar.
Let me maybe show this edit data instead of 300.
Let me make it one 1500 okay.
Like that.
And you can see we have this space bar here.
If I delete that space bar and select add it will be implemented into this chart.
Okay.
But I want the space bar.
Let me hit add again and it will be displayed like before.
Let me briefly change the data.
I'll open this.
We had like 312 or something like that.
It's okay.
Now what if you want additional letters or something additional displayed here.
If you want letters to be displayed, you need to write them in quotation marks because M in PowerPoint
will think, well what is the M symbol?
But I don't want the M symbol.
I want a letter M to be within quotation marks.
If you select add, it will be like that.
You can even add potatoes.
It doesn't matter.
You can add anything you want and it will display dollar 312 potatoes.
Okay, let me revert to millions.
And now it's clear and understandable what this chart displays I would prefer.
What do we have here if we had the millions on the left side as well.
Or we can even delete the axis because I think this chart explains everything perfectly.
In the next lecture, I would like to show you how to visualize change over time in a simple yet very
elegant manner.
Let's see each other in the next lecture.

--- Chart #2 - Adding Custom Elements ---

As promised in this lecture, we will make this little information about the growth between different
years.
All right.
I want you to know something about PowerPoint charts.
I know that plenty of you will already know this, but if you select a PowerPoint chart and you insert
a shape while this chart is selected, the item will be always within this chart.
What does this mean?
It means that when you resize the chart, the object will follow.
I can now take the chart.
You can see I make this smaller and the object becomes smaller as well.
But if I would add this object outside of PowerPoint when this chart is not selected, this is a normal
item like always.
So I can resize it and the circle stays as is.
This is something to remember.
The only situation where you don't want to do it is when you are doing animations, and this will come
in the next lecture.
So here I want to do something like that.
While having this chart selected I have this chart selected.
I can go to Insert shapes and I'll select a line or a line with an arrow.
It depends on what you want.
So I will make a line like that.
A very simple line.
Right click.
I'm going to its format options.
I want to increase the width I want to give this some kind of dashes.
Well this would be perfect.
We will add a shape while having this selected again.
And I'll use a rectangle maybe a rounded rectangle.
Here I'll use a rounded rectangle.
I've added this to my shortcut because I'm using them so often, so I just added it.
My little trick here will be that I will make this the same color as we have the background.
Because I'm using this color here, I'll use it the background shape outline, no outline and beautiful.
We have something like that now.
Probably I would like this to be a bit smaller and I'll just start typing.
I can either type directly in it or I can add another text box on top of it.
I'll go to Text Fill and I will select the first color of this presentation, because those for the
four first colors are for the background, and this is the first accent color.
I have this dark accent color just like Palantir did I?
I just love their color, their design, their simplicity of of it.
Okay, 60 maybe the number isn't accurate now, right now.
But I just want to show you plus 60% okay.
The percentage went.
And this is the little downside when using it within the shape okay.
Like that.
Beautiful.
We have a clear information that something is growing here.
The important part here is that if I resize this chart this will be resized as well.
Of course not always perfectly, but you can always get here back and you can adjust this a little.
But the majority of the work was done already.
And very often in presentations we have two different charts.
So one chart is on the left side, another chart is on the right side.
And look how beautiful that would be of a presentation.
Simple.
Beautiful.
Effective, very clear communication.
Of course.
Now this would require us to be a little bit adjusted, but you get the idea.
In the next lectures we will continue our charting journey.
Let's see each other there.

--- Chart #3 - Advanced PowerPoint Charting ---

In this lecture.
We will work on a chart like that.
And the chart of course could be more beautiful with with fancy backgrounds and so on.
But I will teach you here how a professional chart looks like in a typical business presentation.
And this is exactly what I teach in my business and my chart course as well.
So let us start and I will explain everything.
Here we are working on a chart about per capita CO2 emission in different countries.
We have some data points available for USA, Europe, aggregated China and World Aggregated as well.
And is it 125 potatoes percentage millions.
It's in metric tons.
And it's very important to know what kind of data and metric you are using for this data set.
Okay.
Let me go to the practice slide.
I will insert a chart with the placeholder and I will use a line chart.
We can go for a regular or for a line with markers.
I will use the one with markers because we can always remove the markers.
That's no problem.
I will insert the entire data set and it's important when you use line charts that you use distinctive
colors for different lines, so it's a little easier to read.
Number two, filter out world data.
Since on this chart I want to only display the world data, I'll select my filter button.
On the windows we have this filter button and we can deselect USA Europe, China and leave only the
world one.
If you are on a mac and you don't have this filter button, you can right click Edit Data and you can
delete everything besides world.
I would delete that.
I would take world Ctrl C and Ctrl V, and I will just make this data set smaller.
This way we would have only world displayed.
Okay, let me get back to it because I have the filter button.
I don't have to do this.
Okay we have that ready.
Add target line at 42.
In our presentation I want to showcase that our target emission is below 42 by 2050.
It appears we achieved that earlier.
But we want to showcase this somehow on our chart, I'll click on the chart.
At first, I will put it inside of the chart and I will tell you later why.
Okay, again, insert shapes, insert a line, and I will insert an additional line at 42.
I'll press my shift key so it will be easier to make straight.
And for the line you can change the design of it by going to format object.
I'll make it green to inform this is what we want to achieve.
Even though our presentation has different colors, we always have the standard colors in PowerPoint
and as you can see, green, red.
Those are standard colors.
There will be always there.
I will go for green, I will increase the width and I will give it some kind of dashes.
Okay.
We prepared a line.
Now recolor line to red and green.
This will be very important and this is what will set you apart from again regular PowerPoint users.
Normally people know that you can recolor lines within charts.
By clicking on the series, you can go to its filling options.
Line options are open.
we have the marker options and line options.
Line options are open and I will select red.
Let's select red.
The design is okay.
Now I'll select the very last data point because it will recolor the last part in the last part to 45
and 246.
I'll make it green.
This way we are informing that here we went into green territory.
Now you can see small yellow dots.
Those are for the markers.
If you don't want to bother with the markers, you can either click on them, go to the filling options
to the markers, and just make them green or red, or make them disappear whatsoever.
No line, no fill.
They aren't here.
Or you can right click.
You can change chart type, and you can change it from the markers to a regular one, and no markers
will be present.
Either way is fine.
This is it.
For the first lecture, I want to continue the design in the next lecture to show you some elements
that I will adjust, and we will move from there.
Let's see each other in a second.

--- Chart #3 - Customization and Design ---

Okay, we are moving forward.
We recolored the line to red and green and we will now add data labels and recolor them.
Click on the chart itself, select the plus sign and add data labels.
We can decide whether there should be above or not.
I think this is perfect and we can now recolor them.
You can again recolor them to red for the previous data.
Maybe I will make them a little bigger to 14 or even 16.
Maybe 14 will be enough and I can select bold or not, depending on which I like more.
I'll click on the 40 which is below and should be green.
Right now.
I will select green and I will increase that and maybe bolden it up.
So everyone really understands that this is the most important metric here.
What I did I see I added this marker here.
We can do that as well.
You should already know by now how to do this.
I will click only on this one data set.
Go to the filling options to the marker options here solid fill and maybe solid line.
And we can increase the width.
This way it grows larger.
You can see it on the legend.
And okay we have this green circle here.
Now considering the design gridlines axis.
Do you like the design.
Do you like what you see here?
Well there are a couple of adjustments I would make.
I would delete the legend.
This would be absolutely the first one because we don't need separate legends here.
We will change the title in a second.
The title, as you know, I prefer it on the left side for the axis and the gridlines.
I'll click on the grid lines.
Let me directly click on the grid lines.
So now they are selected with those blue circles.
From the filling options I want to increase the transparency greatly to 93%.
Okay, I can see also that they are a little bit blue or it turns out green.
I want to change them back to black.
I think a gray appearance is better for grid lines.
What else did we do?
I can see that we added lines and titles.
Okay, let us do those little design adjustments and we will continue to the next lecture.
The first design adjustment will be adding the black line.
I'll go to the filling options to the line options here on the bottom and just make it black for the
width.
Let's go for 125.
Here we will do the same 125 and black.
And I think maybe it's a bit too pronounced now you could go for gray, but I think this is completely
fine.
In the next lecture it will be very important because I want to teach you how to make a chart actually
understandable.
See you in the next lecture.

--- Action Titles and Making Charts Understandable ---

We made the design.
Now we want to make the chart understandable and we will write a simple action title.
But to write an action title, you need to know what the chart is about.
The chart is about showcasing that the global CO2 emission.
Our target was to go below 42 at least before 2050.
This was achieved.
Let's start to write it out.
If we go to the data set that we have, we have per capita CO2 emission in different countries.
Okay, I'll take the title.
And instead in different countries in the world 190.
Now this would be understandable.
And I would now type in that it is in metric tons.
To make everything understandable, we need to label our axis.
We have no labeling.
Well, everyone understands that those are years, but there should be an information years metric tons
here on the left.
Okay, I'll select a plus sign.
And for the axis we have also axis titles.
You can use the axis titles, which is the native feature here for charts within PowerPoint.
Or you could just add a text box.
It would be fine as well.
You can see I typed in here metric tons CO2 per year.
And this is crucial.
Those are metric tons per year okay so now we know a little more here.
We can just type in years.
You can leave it in the middle.
My rule of thumb is to put it on the side.
It's a little bit more understandable and easier to see, but in the middle it's completely fine as
well.
All right.
Now this chart looks a little bit more professional.
Of course we would need to adjust the green line, but those are just cosmetics.
Now one last thing I want to show you is action titles.
Action titles are very difficult to write.
You can use ChatGPT to help you a little bit about that.
And action title is something.
If someone would only read the action title without seeing your chart, it would understand the slide
and vice versa.
Someone who only briefly looks at the slide should be capable of understanding what the slide is about.
What's the most important and key information that you want to showcase?
So here we have like global Co, CO2, CO2 emissions, global CO2 emission target was met by 2045.
Target for 2040 2050.
It's important to highlight that global CO2 emission target for 2040 2050 was met by 245, maybe ahead
of schedule, ahead of schedule, ahead of time, ahead of schedule and ahead of time or just was met.
Maybe, maybe this would be enough.
Global CO2 emission target for was met by 224.
Decline.
Decline continues In 2046.
This would be probably some kind of presentation about like the global warming environmental changes.
So everyone watching this presentation would already know what's it about.
So I think this type of action title would be perfectly understandable.
Now if the chart would be deleted, someone would still kind of understand what's going on.
Okay.
This chart also displays it.
Here we have 42.
This is the target.
And if I would be presenting this presentation I would definitely take my marker, take my pen and tell.
This green line represents the target value that we want to achieve.
And it was achieved by 245.
You can see that we have still declined in the next year, which is perfect and what we want to see,
and I would continue like that.
All right.
I will discard the changes.
This is how you design professional charts and make them understandable.
In the next lecture I want to show you how to animate such a chart.

--- Animating Charts in PowerPoint ---

In this lecture, we will animate this chart and I will make this brief.
Animations should help you explain the topic, not make it more difficult.
Here I didn't put an asterisk because here we have data reflects available global emission data because
it's always difficult to gather this data.
Okay.
Animation I would click on this chart.
I would go to animations and you can go for a fade.
That's no problem.
You know the animation pane.
And what we have here is the chart right now.
But if we actually double click on this animation go to Chart Animation.
This chart can be animated as one object by series or by category by series.
This entire series will be animated at once, but if I double click on it, chart animation and select
by category, every single category will be animated separately.
I think this is a bit of an overkill, but it depends on what you will say during your presentation.
What I would do, I would open this and I would take all the animations apart from the first one.
The first one is the background and I would make them start with previous, or maybe the second one
will be on unclear what this will do.
Let me start the presentation.
What this will do?
It will at first draw the chart, then draw the red ones.
And the very last animation will be the last data label.
And I think when I would explain this presentation I would go for something like that.
Okay.
But what's the problem with this green line?
I would like the green line to be displayed as well in a separate animation.
But since this green line is now inside this chart, look, this green line is inside this chart, I
cannot animate it separately.
What you can do Ctrl X to take it away.
Ctrl V to place it just on the PowerPoint slide outside of the chart now.
And now it can be animated.
What's tricky that you need to know where do you want it?
It's now animation number four, and I want this to be at the very beginning.
I want this to be at the very beginning, just as the second animation, because the first animation
is the chart background one.
Notice if you double click on the chart chart animation, you can select whether the chart background
should be animated separately or not.
I like to have it animated so I have more control over the animations.
It seems complicated and the more data sets you want to animate, the more difficult it is.
So I'm keeping it simple like that.
If I would present this presentation, I would inform you about what the presentation is about.
I would inform you what the chart is about, and I would start by showcasing the green baseline.
We want to achieve our goal.
Our target for this entire endeavor was to reach a target of 42 metric tons between 2040 and 2050.
This will be marked with the green line on the chart.
The green line represents 42 metric tons per year of emission.
As you can see, each year we are able to reduce the amount of global CO2 emission and the pivot point.
The most important is 2045, because we'll be able to surpass our target and further lower it in 2046.
This is just an example, and this is how I would use animations on a chart to make my explanations
a little simpler, a little more visual, but not overwhelm everyone with fancy flying items around
the chart.
Thank you so much for listening here.
I hope you've learned a lot about charts.

--- More Charting Content ---

If you are interested in more about charts and business presentations, I have two separate courses
for that.
For the charts and data visualization course, I have prepared explanations about every single chart
type, how to use them, when to use them, what are the advantages with beautiful examples to work
along the same situation?
For the Business Presentations course, I teach you how to write action titles.
What should be on a presentation, what shouldn't, how to design it, how to use charts within them,
and all that good stuff.
You can use those links if you are interested in the content.
I hope you don't mind this tiny bit of promotion, and I feel that I give you plenty of value and I
enjoy each single student I work with.
I'm always active and there to help if you need me.
Enough of that.
Thank you so much for listening.
Let's continue learning PowerPoint.

--- Kiosk Presentation - Info & handling ---

Hello and welcome in this little section where we will talk about a kiosk presentation, what is a kiosk
style and type of presentation?
Basically, this is something which you see in shops, in little markets when you wait in some queue,
basically everywhere when a video repeats itself, this can be a video, but this can be just as well
a kiosk style presentation.
Now this is played straight from PowerPoint and this presentation repeats itself until I stop it.
If I would have a display and I would like that, the video behind me would be rolling over and over
and over again.
I could use PowerPoint and I could set the presentation to be a kiosk type of presentation.
You can say that you can do the same with video.
Just you take a video and you loop the video or you just repeat the video.
Yes, of course.
But I'll soon explain you the pros and cons of using video versus using the kiosk style presentation.
I want to show you the features that come with PowerPoint that allow us to do so and what problems you
may face when you create those.
Basically, there will be no problems if we set it up properly.
These are the basics about a kiosk style presentation.
Now I would like to go in depth and explain you when and where and how to set everything up to work
properly and how to make something like that out of the presentation you already have out of the template
or any project you have prepared and you would like to repeat itself on one of your monitors.

--- Problems with Transition ---

Okay, Awesome.
We already know what a kiosk presentation is and we have our entire presentation ready.
We have some animations here as I go to the animation tab and open up the animation pane, I see we
have some animations.
Let's just copy a few slides.
One, two, three and create a kiosk style presentation out of it.
Now let's say that this would be a product I would select here, my product, its features, and here
a contact page.
Contact me if you want to know more about this product.
And this would go over and over and over again.
In this lesson, I want to show you how to set up a kiosk presentation and what problems do arise when
we use transitions.
And this is very important.
A kiosk presentation is very simple to set up.
You only hit slideshow, you select, set up slideshow, you click here and look at that.
You have three options.
Option number three, Browse at a kiosk full screen.
You just select that and automatically the loop continuously until escape is selected and we select
on which monitor it should play.
I have only one monitor connected, so obviously this will be my primary monitor.
And here comes the first cool feature.
We can downscale it to any resolution we want.
Obviously it will run smoother on slower machines and it depends on the on the display you are displaying
it.
If you have a video, for example, at your shop and this this monitor doesn't have full HD size, so
it doesn't have this resolution, but its native resolution is 1360 by seven, six, eight, you could
select this and it would automatically downscale the presentation to this resolution.
In my case, I don't have to do this, so I'll select the full HD.
All right.
Now, what problems do we have?
We need to consider both the transitions and the animations tab, and I'll explain you everything in
the transition step.
This will not work until you place after if it's set to mouse click.
Let me show you shift F5.
This is my kiosk presentation.
Basically, it stands in place.
What's even worse, I can click.
I can click on my keyboard.
Nothing happens.
So unless you don't use the transitions tab and you don't select after, you can select after a certain
amount of seconds or after zero, it doesn't really matter.
It depends on how do you want it.
I would like this slide to go forward after four seconds, then the next slide again, after four seconds.
We have another problem here and the last slide also after a few seconds.
But I just wanted to show you this first example.
Now, as I play the slide, will the first animation isn't playing, but you can see this slide finally
goes forward.
The next slide also was forced to go forward after four seconds.
Even the animations didn't play out.
And this is another difference.
The kiosk presentation forces the transition hard.
It doesn't even mind the animations, but we have to somehow deal with that.
You can see here we have another problem, but this will be explained in the next lesson.

--- Problems with Animation ---

All right.
Going forward with the presentation, not only do we have problems with transitions because we have
to select after.
But we also have problems with animations.
If animations are set to onClick, they will not proceed properly unless we have the after selected
here.
I have after three seconds and this is far too quick.
As you can see, it doesn't even have time to complete all those animations.
So I would have to select like after 6 or 7 seconds now, everything would have time to play out.
What we witnessed here is that the animation isn't progressing when the animations are set to onClick.
So just to be sure, if you set up a presentation with the kiosk style, you basically do not want to
use onClick animations.
Yes, of course I can select like give it 10s and it will have time to play out and it will play.
And after those 10s, the animation will proceed forward.
But it would be a bit easier for us if we do not use those onClick animations because they will happen
automatically.
If you want full control over what's happening, the most proper way to set up a kiosk presentation
would be to select those animations.
For example, instead of onClick, I will select everything and I will select start after previews because
I want it to spread them out a bit.
Once a new group starts, I want to go to animations and set the delay.
One, two, three.
Look at that.
I have the animations until here.
Start 8.1 and you can.
You cannot see this because this goes above the screen and 8.6, all those animations will take 8.6
seconds to play out.
So if I go to Transitions and I have 10s here, I'm completely sure that all animations will play out.
But I want to leave people with this slide for a few seconds.
I want them to have time to read it.
So in order to make everything properly, I would select 15 seconds.
This way I'm sure that both the transitions and the animations are properly set up.
Yes, of course you can skip this step, but in my opinion, this is the more professional way to go
about this because you have more control over what's happening now.
This entire slide would play in my kiosk style presentation.
I would hide my mouse and I could be secure that after 15 seconds, this slide will disappear and it
will go forward to the next slide.
Now, this kiosk presentation is almost perfectly set up because everything is progressing automatically.
I don't have to hit anything.
I don't have to click, I don't have to wait.
Everything happens automatically and the presentation plays properly over and over again.
I'll compare it to a video in the next lesson, because this is also something very important for you
to understand in case you plan to use those types of presentations.

--- Kiosk vs Video ---

You could ask me, why would you use a kiosk style presentation or a kiosk style showcase instead of
just exporting this entire design to video and using the video?
There are several upsides and downsides when using a video.
This is a PowerPoint presentation.
I can hit F5 and this kiosk style presentation will play immediately.
I don't need to render it.
I don't need to prepare anything.
And if I want any change, really any change.
For example, I think all this text is appearing too quickly and this one is disappearing also too quickly.
No problem.
I go into the animation, I give it more duration, I give it more duration.
I go to transitions and I make it a bit longer.
Boom.
F5 is plays again, but when I export it to video, I need to always export it.
I need to always preview it and it isn't even that great.
For example, this is just an example for example, this is the presentation exported as video.
I have it to loop set.
This is in polish loop means repeating.
So if this video plays and this depends on my video player, the video player shows its logo in the
middle.
Yes, of course you can find a video player which doesn't do this.
But if if you have the opportunity to use PowerPoint behind you, then I would prefer to use PowerPoint.
If I have it on a separate computer or on a laptop or in your work or on the university where you do
not have your PowerPoint behind you, then you can export it to a video.
Obviously, because a video only requires codecs to play and you can double click and you can play the
video anywhere you want while with the presentation it will be a tiny bit more problematic.
So now you know my opinion about that.
And one more thing which you can do eventually if you don't want to waste your time rendering video
projects, you can always select file save as you can browse and there is another option.
You can save it as a where is it PowerPoint show, which is another extension.
And yeah, here you have it.
PowerPoint show is something very similar to a kiosk presentation.
And this is also an option which not everyone uses, but it is possible to use it.
You just save a show.
If you remember to select this option loop continuously until escape.
Even if you save the show, it will repeat itself.
So this is a very quick way of exporting a video.
So this would be the perfect compromise between exporting a video and using PowerPoint straight away
to play the presentation.
And it's basically a PowerPoint presentation, but you do not have those all those editing options.
It doesn't open PowerPoint.
It opens only the preview window and it starts playing.
These are the upsides, pros and cons when it comes to using video versus using a kiosk presentation.
Now, both are viable.
Both are options you can of course use, but depending on the situation you are in and your capabilities,
if you have PowerPoint at your service or if you do not have PowerPoint installed on the computer,
you want to play it.
This will be the decision between using a video and using the presentation straight away.

--- How to set it up properly ---

All right.
This lecture is here to reinforce everything you did learn about kiosk presentations.
If you would open PowerPoint and you would like to quickly create a kiosk presentation if you have your
designs prepared, let me quickly recap how to do this.
I I'll take my designs.
I would go to slideshow, setup slideshow, and I would make sure that the third option is selected
especially important here.
Loop continuously until ESC, until escape.
So this is the most important option when it comes to the kiosk presentation.
You select the resolution you want the video to play in.
It can even be a low one, but I would most likely stay with the native one depending on what monitor
you use, I would select.
Okay.
Then I would make sure that I make good use of transitions and animations.
The most important here is to have, after a certain amount of seconds selected in the Transitions tab,
I will just quickly go over each slide after after it's selected on each slide.
So everything is prepared properly in order to to know that this is enough time.
One, you have to preview it.
Two, you have to make sure that the animations have enough time to play.
Of course, not only animations count.
If you want people to actually read what you have here, you need to give them a bit more time.
You can simply test and practice this while working in PowerPoint.
You just preview, you just press F5, you see the slide and you wait and you think about if you did
give people enough time.
I will also go to animations, open the animation pane and I'll repeat the steps.
I'll select the first slide.
The second slide.
Start half a second and 1.5.
Right click.
Make it after previous.
Give it a bit time.
Take the next one.
Give it a bit time.
This will be the text box or the icons and it's easier to read if you have all animations after previous
or with previous instead of on click.
Five seconds.
Six seconds is the end of the animations.
How long do we have for this slide?
Click the second slide.
10s.
Perfect.
Maybe let's give people enough time so people will have six seconds after that to to check everything
out.
Proceed to the next slide.
Boom, boom, boom Animations.
As long as about 8.5 seconds.
Transitions, 15 seconds, playtime.
No problem.
Perfect F5.
Congratulations.
Your kiosk presentation is set up.
This is how you properly go about this.
I hope this was helpful because those kiosk presentations from time to time make it useful.
Okay.
Thank you very much for watching this tutorial.
I hope this section was useful for you and see you in other sections.

--- Introduction - what am I going to explain here? ---

Hello and welcome.
In this interesting section about pictures and working with pictures in PowerPoint.
What will we do here?
We will take a few pictures.
You can use any example pictures and I'll try to go over the most important functions inside the picture.
Tools of this object, this picture which we entered, and try to go about the most important functions
which are sometimes missed, sometimes not used.
And I'll try to show you only the most useful tools.
I will not artificially like expand this section because, for example, about color and about artistic
effects.
There is not much to say apart from that.
You need to click around with those artistic effects and find them out yourself.
It wouldn't be any use if I would explain each effect one by one.
We have the colors, we have artistic effects.
But in general it's important that you import a picture and you click around in PowerPoint to see what's
possible.
Yes, I'll try to bring and underline you the most important things, the most important features,
but it's up to you if you click on it, if you use it in PowerPoint, and then later on, if you will
create another presentation, another template, you will already remember One more thing about pictures,
PowerPoint and their usage.
Let's jump right in.
This is only a quick introduction because I wanted to get you in the topic.
Let's focus.
Let's focus on pictures and let's see what's possible here in PowerPoint and what eventually those options
can be used for.
I can't wait.
So let's go and start from the next lesson.

--- Removing backgrounds - the pros and cons ---

Okay.
Hello.
As you can see, we need to start from the left.
Top side.
Okay.
If you insert a picture into PowerPoint, you probably noticed that you have the picture tools and the
format options inside the format options.
The first very relevant and important function is removing the background.
It's not as sophisticated as, for example, in Adobe Photoshop, but it really can get the job done.
Let's say that on this picture we will try to get this cow separated because we would like to to crop
the cow and just to use it.
PowerPoint tries to automate the process by clicking on remove background.
You are getting this purple field.
This purple field tells you this will be deleted.
What is remaining in color is this will remain all right.
I immediately see.
We need to get rid of the mountains.
You just select mark areas to remove and you drag and click and drop.
PowerPoint tries to make the selection as good as possible.
Now, depending on how different this object is from the background, that easy it will be, we can
see the legs, the hooves should be should be in here.
So we then change to mark areas to keep and PowerPoint again will try to make this as good as possible.
If you run into troubles, for example, you accidentally selected also this, which you shouldn't,
then you take again mark areas to remove and you try to come closer and to adjust this a little bit.
As you can see, PowerPoint is now making is a bit difficult on us.
As you can see, it's now a bit more difficult, but it can be done.
Okay.
It didn't hit the leg.
Perfect.
Now, I would like to get rid of this mountain, this part of the mountain.
And you can see again, a part of the cow has been deleted as well.
Okay.
Here around the ear.
This is a really tricky part, but let's make it like that.
And PowerPoint did fairly a fairly good job.
Okay.
Some pictures do not have to be totally perfect, but I will mark an area to remove and I'll try to
get it done here.
Okay.
PowerPoint did try his best.
Mark areas to remove.
Also, this area should be removed between the legs.
Okay.
Perfect.
I'll select keep changes and look what we got.
Perfect.
Really?
PowerPoint did a fairly good job with this picture.
Now.
Definitely.
This is not the perfect solution whatsoever, but it did a really good job at cutting it out.
If you really need more precision, you would go to a third party software like Photoshop where you
can really come close and you can edit it pixel by pixel.
But PowerPoint is not a bitmap editor.
It's not perfectly suited for this, for this task.
So this removal tool is remove background tool does a better job than it's been expected.
Now, this image is very big.
As you can see, I won't only use the cow and I have the entire image so I can simply hit on crop.
I can make it a bit smaller coming closer to the cow and I can treat the cow here now as an object,
which is really perfect.
Now, some green backgrounds, everything you would like to put here and you have this object ready.
Now the cow isn't always perfect.
For example, you would like to crop a person.
This, for example, would be fairly easy to to delete the background from.
So it would also be very easy to crop out this guy and put it on the left side.
On the right side.
Put another background, anything you want to do.
So remember about this option when you work with pictures clicking the first one, remove background.
It needs a little practice, but once you get the hang of it, it's a really simple tool to use and
very often it works automatically for you and does the majority of the job with one click.
Okay.
This is one thing I wanted to talk about you.
When it comes to photo manipulation going forward, we will explore the other options.

--- Additional info which I recommend to learn ---

All right, we have the cow.
Let's select a new slide.
I'll add any picture we have here.
And I'll just extend it to the entire slide.
Okay, We have this picture and on the format tools, now comes something specific, which means corrections,
color and artistic effects.
When it comes to the corrections, yes, it goes with the brightness and contrast.
So you are limited to those options.
You have a few predefined of those sharp and soften and brightness contrast.
If you need more options of this on the very bottom side, you have picture correction options.
You open this up and here you can work with the sharpness.
But in all my usage of PowerPoint, I rarely use this because.
Yes, it sharpens the picture a bit, but PowerPoint works really slow with those.
So this is something you have to be careful about.
But if you need to up the brightness a little bit and to maybe lower the contrast because you don't
want to have such a strong photograph.
I don't like the sharpen with it.
You can see how slow it goes here.
This is really an intensive process for your PC.
Anyway, we should be grateful that PowerPoint has those options.
The same goes for color and artistic effects.
The color makes an overlay on the picture.
I prefer to use overlays done by myself, but as you can see, we have some options here.
And again, picture color options, which is the next option here.
And as you can see here, we have the crop options.
The color saturation allows us to make the colors stronger or the saturation of the colors stronger
and the temperature warmer or less warm.
It's a bit difficult to know all those options, but less warm means more blue.
Warmer means more yellow, more bright, like the color gets a bit stronger.
So those predefined those predefined color schemes are actually pretty good.
And what I do like is that PowerPoint allows us to use any color we prefer.
Let's say that on this picture I'd prefer a red overlay.
So I just select this.
I go for a red color and PowerPoint tries to give me this overlay as I want it.
This creates a very easy photo effect which we could apply in our text here, and this could be potentially
a very easily made ready slide corrections and color.
This is it.
When it comes to artistic effects, it's really up to you.
We have a few of those effects here, but they are also very slow.
What's very useful is the blur.
A blur is something that is often used in design, for example, as a background.
So I would like to apply a blur here.
It slowly applies and then I want to select the artistic effects.
I want to go to its options.
You can see it's the second one.
Artistic effect and depending on the effect you choose, you have the options right here.
Here you have the radius, here you have the transparency and intensity.
I want to go back to my blur if PowerPoint will allow me.
Okay, We have the Blur.
I would like the radius to be stronger.
And I would have this photograph in the background.
I would make Ctrl, C, Ctrl V, I would make this smaller.
Yeah, you can see how slow this now works.
And I want to reset the picture because I don't want the effect anymore.
Reset picture.
And this is.
Yeah, I'm yeah, I'm going here to the like to the next option.
But those are very closely connected.
If you're making a design like that, I would now select a shadow around this picture by going to the
same the format options, the effect options.
You can see we have shadow.
I would pick a shadow, for example, from the predefined ones.
Any type of shadow.
And I would make the shadow pretty strong.
I would make the size.
And of course the blur also should be stronger making it like that.
Create a really nice and strong shadow here.
Transparency should be less because I want the shadow to be outstandingly strong.
Maybe not the distance, but the blur even a little bit.
And going now back.
Look.
What nice of a design is that?
This is perfect.
I for example, use this for YouTube thumbnails.
When I created videos, if I didn't know what to put in the background, how to kind of make the entire
composition filled out with not only use the picture, I made something like this, this is a very popular
technique using the blur on the background and bringing the main content forward.
This also focuses the the working area.
The person who watches it automatically focuses on the picture yet doesn't lose the sight of the entire
composition.
This is a great way of highlighting of using to its best those options that we have so color artistic
effects and the reset picture was only here as a little trick.
This is what I wanted to talk about with you here.
I would like you to make a slight like that, create a slide, or just import a new picture to PowerPoint
and try to use corrections, colors and artistic effects.

--- Advanced Cropping ---

Okay.
I was ensuring you that I will not go.
Each option one by one and explain it to you because you would be bored to death.
Of course, it's obvious that you can use the same tools for pictures as you can use for normal objects.
For example, this object technically.
The same elements can be applied to this object.
As to this picture, you can change the color of the border.
You can rotate the picture.
Everything here in the formal option applies.
You can see we have those predefined ones.
We have the picture border picture effect, which really can give us very similar results that we can
with a normal object.
Okay.
But I wanted to talk with you about something else, something that we already done plenty of times,
I'm sure, in this course and in all of my content, which is cropping.
Cropping is absolutely essential in PowerPoint.
And you should now close this window and we want to crop this picture to half of the slide.
What do we do?
No, we do not do it like this.
We select crop.
We adjust the size of the crop, the size of the crop area.
For example, we want like this amount a bit more than a half is cropped out.
Now, yes, you could use those tools in the cropping tools here or you can just simply click crop.
Do not worry, the picture isn't disappearing.
You can click on crop again and you are back at it.
This is very useful if you change the position of the crop area.
For example, you want the sun here.
Perfect.
This would be really good looking.
What else can you do?
Okay, I'll hit on crop and this would be it on this slide.
But what else can be done?
Something that is very essential with pictures is cropping them to perfect shapes.
Often when you create templates, when you create slides in PowerPoint, you want at least to try to
be pixel perfect or to the design to look very clean, not compromised by any skewing or weirdly looking
weirdly shaped photographs.
That's why the cropping option in the format picture tools, the cropping options.
Once you click on them and you have the advanced options, you have crop to shape and aspect ratio,
which are my absolute favorites.
Cropping to shape is helping you so many times.
For example, you want a perfect circle here.
How would you go about this?
You would click on this, the basic shapes, you would select an oval.
Okay, you have the oval, but then you again have to click on crop.
Yes, you could do this by trying to make the oval perfect by hand, then moving it around.
Or for example, if you want it in the middle, you would do it like that.
But PowerPoint luckily comes with help here, and this is an absolute splendid function that in the
cropping options you have both cropping to shape and cropping to aspect ratio and you want to use for
example, if you want a perfect circle, you want to use the square or those other ones of course are
also very good.
But in this case, if you want a perfect circle, you would select a square.
And I highly recommend that you test out this function.
So you know what's up here.
This is another option.
We explored the cropping options, which I feel is essential.
Thank you for listening.
I hope this is anyway useful for you.
And because I enjoyed recording this, because I feel it's very important to put this in place and it's
now there.
I hope you will enjoy it as much as I do.
Okay.
See you in the next one.
And let's just proceed.

--- Soft Edges for PowerPoint pictures ---

1
Hello there!
2
Welcome in this short tutorial,
3
where I would like to show you
4
how to make those nice soft edges around images.
5
If you would have really no idea what design to do
6
and what to do with your slide.
7
Those are especially very interesting
8
if you would for example click on the photograph
9
and give them a very simple fade animation,
10
it slowly fades into the screen
11
and those boulders really blend with the background.
12
Let me maximize the duration and look how amazing this is.
13
It can for example suit a design like that
14
and the technique is very simple,
15
you take any photograph you need,
16
for example I have a photograph
17
with a person face here, but this can be even a hand.
18
It's no problem.
19
The way I go about this
20
I click on crop and just very roughly crop the image
21
to have like the visualization of what I would like
22
to be shown.
23
What you can do with the crop options
24
is to select the button,
25
open the crop to shape,
26
and, for example,
27
you should start with the oval, the circle.
28
Once you click the circle, the crop is really weird,
29
as you can see here.
30
So, you can do another thing:
31
you can open the crop, and apart from the shape,
32
you have aspect ratio.
33
Clicking on aspect ratio would allow you
34
to adjust the crop to a perfect circle.
35
And, you don't have do this, of course,
36
since the hand is stretching out.
37
It could be as well a bit more oval, okay?
38
Something like that, you hit crop,
39
then you can go to the effects here.
40
Once you click on this, you can right-click,
41
and you can select format picture.
42
Let me close the animation pane.
43
In format picture, you have plenty of options,
44
as you can see.
45
You have filling options, but what is of our interest
46
is the effect options.
47
An unused effect is often soft edges.
48
I pick this effect, and I draw this size nearly to the end.
49
You can see, like to 80, 90, even 95 point.
50
This is the effect you achieve;
51
it blends perfectly with any background you use,
52
and if those are too strong
53
they start to destroy your image,
54
the cover-up, the vision you would want them to cover up,
55
that's no problem.
56
Always go to format,
57
click back on crop and make the crop bigger.
58
For example, I would like the top side of the hand
59
to be more visible.
60
I just adjust the crop a little bit,
61
I click again, and the soft edges are already applied.
62
And this blends in beautifully,
63
no matter what background you choose.
64
You see, as I click the image, and then click on the slide,
65
it ultimately goes to format background.
66
Now I can select really any background I want.
67
Of course, the image doesn't work with the blue,
68
but I would select a gray, I could select even
69
something like that.
70
No matter what you select, it will always
71
perfectly blend out with background.
72
This technique could be explained in a few more examples,
73
but the principles remain the same.
74
Crop it, use soft edges, and make the preset very strong,
75
like to 90 or 80 point.
76
Thanks so much for listening, and I hope this tutorial
77
will elevate your PowerPoint skills to another level.

--- Picture layouts and quick organizing ---

Okay.
We have so many beautiful things I would like to talk about.
How can you quickly make a portfolio slide or how can you quickly work with like this amount of pictures
that we have here?
We have like five pictures here and how to to make this quickly into one one object.
Once you select everything in the format picture tools, apart from everything that we already explored,
we have the picture layout.
Personally, I do not like the layout because they do not kind of work perfect with the text.
If you make the text bigger, it works like a smart art that the picture gets smaller.
So depending on what you write here, you can see that the text gets smaller and smaller.
And for example, if I have only one word here and ten words here, it looks totally weird.
But what's cool?
Look what happened with the photos.
They are all the same size.
After one click as I click on this.
Now I do not have the picture tools only I have the smart art tools because this turned into a smart
art.
We can still go to the format, but we already have the picture layout selected.
And what I prefer to do here is to right click group Ungroup.
Now we have this Ungroup.
So it's no longer a smart art, it's a normal object.
And if you ungroup this again, group Ungroup.
Now everything that was in here is separated.
Okay?
So I have those ugly text boxes.
I just get rid of them.
And so quickly I was able to achieve a beautiful portfolio slide with all five pictures being cropped
to the same exact size.
How beautiful is that?
Then I just take those two pictures, for example.
I would like them to be on the left and right.
No problem.
We have the align options.
I want to select those two.
I go to this time to the format drawing tools option and I have my align options.
I want to distribute them.
Be sure that you have align to slide selected.
If I align selected objects to each other, they cannot be distributed align to slide distribute horizontally.
Boom.
I have a quick distribution.
Then those distribute horizontally.
Boom.
Everything is perfectly distributed.
For example, I want them to be closer.
Boom.
Perfect.
A ready portfolio slide in a matter really of one two minutes and you are done by the help of the picture
layout tools.
So the picture layout tools, eventually they not look perfect for every situation.
But if you want to get quickly photos of the same size, it's a perfect tool.
This is it.
When it comes to this tutorial about photo manipulation, I hope this helps a lot and you will use this
throughout your career.
We can even make this cool adjustment to those pictures.
How dope is that?
I really like this and I hope you will remember about this function.
See you in other tutorials.
I can't wait to proceed with you.

--- W3.org ---

1
I cannot start this section
2
any other way than showing you w3.org.
3
The website is changing constantly
4
because, of course, the accessibility standards change.
5
But in general, you can go to standards
6
and open W3C standards and draft.
7
You can then search for WCAG,
8
and here you have always the newest drafts
9
of accessibility standards.
10
3.0 is in the making and if you click on this document
11
and search a little through this document,
12
for example, adaptable,
13
create content that can be presented in different ways.
14
For example, simpler layout,
15
so you can have a more complicated and a simple layout,
16
and so on and so on.
17
What is even more important to us, PowerPoint users,
18
is the web accessibility initiative.
19
Please go to w3.org/wai, and here we have something
20
of extreme importance.
21
We can go on the right side,
22
not only to our standards and guidelines,
23
but to teach and advocate.
24
On the teach and advocate side, there is something called
25
making events accessible checklist.
26
This is of special interest to us PowerPointers.
27
You can open all the guidelines.
28
You need to keep in mind people who cannot properly see,
29
hear, move, speak, or understand you.
30
For example, people that sit in the back row,
31
you can always ask them,
32
"Am I speaking loud enough that you can hear me?"
33
Or "Do you see my presentation correctly
34
because you are sitting so far away?"
35
You need to keep those things in mind,
36
especially when presenting live.
37
For example, for the speaker, planning your session,
38
preparing slides and projected material,
39
you should use an easy-to-read font face,
40
you should use sufficient contrast between colors,
41
you should consider how to use motion or animations,
42
make provided material accessible,
43
limit the amount of text on each slide.
44
You can see how this all comes together
45
to what I'm teaching in this course.
46
Those are the basics about w3.org,
47
and we'll see each other in the next lectures
48
where I'll present to you how you can make
49
your presentations accessible using PowerPoint.

--- Accessibility Basics in PowerPoint 2019 2021 PowerPoint 365 ---

1
Let's talk about the accessibility feature in PowerPoint.
2
This feature is available both for Windows and for Mac.
3
I'm not sure about older versions
4
but if you use the current version, PowerPoint 365,
5
you should have it no problem, available at all times.
6
You can click on anything in PowerPoint,
7
on pictures, on shapes, on text, then you can go to review
8
and there will be check accessibility.
9
If you open this feature,
10
a new tab appears on the top, accessibility,
11
and here you have a couple of different features
12
like reading order and alternative text,
13
I will explain that in later sections.
14
Here, I wanted to tell you that this exists.
15
You can turn it on and off here on the right side.
16
You can select keep accessibility checker running
17
while I work or you can deselect it if you don't want it.
18
You can also do this by going to File &gt; Options
19
and there is accessibility,
20
you can keep it enabled or disabled.
21
Another interesting thing is
22
that it actually has a good help section.
23
You can click on the help section here.
24
You can get some guides
25
on making your presentations easier to read
26
with screen readers, with captions, and so on.
27
I will show you one more trick in this lecture.
28
This is actually an amazing trick.
29
Here's how to do this on Windows,
30
I'm sure on the Mac you can also filter out colors.
31
Let me go to a colorful slide and let me show you something.
32
I can go into color filter settings of my system
33
and I can actually turn my screen gray, on a grayscale.
34
I can, additionally,
35
for people with different impairments with their view,
36
also select those settings
37
to preview how that colors are displayed.
38
This is important if you create presentations.
39
You can preview how the colors potentially will look
40
to somebody with a vision impairment.
41
Usually I have it set to grayscale
42
and you can enable a shortcut, Windows + control + C.
43
Now, every time I do something on my PC,
44
I can go Windows + control + C
45
and I can turn it on and off, on and off.
46
It's really convenient to quickly preview
47
how your presentations, or for example, your picture,
48
would look on a grayscale.
49
Those are the basics about the accessibility features.
50
I'll explain you now a couple of things
51
and how they work, and how they help people,
52
so stay tuned for the next lecture.

--- Subtitles in ms powerpoint ---

1
Subtitle Magic.
2
PowerPoint in its accessibility features.
3
Let me go to Review Accessibility Feature,
4
allows to use automatic subtitles
5
that will be created by an AI of Microsoft
6
but I believe you need the Microsoft 365 version to use it.
7
I'm not 100% sure.
8
On my version, this is available.
9
I have the newest version.
10
Then I can select my spoken language
11
and I can even try to automatically translate it
12
into another language.
13
Let's say that you are in France,
14
you have a presentation, you speak English
15
but there is someone who speaks only French in the audience.
16
I'll turn this setting on.
17
I need to stop my recording now
18
because PowerPoint will not be able to take my microphone.
19
Let us try it first to record something in English.
20
Let's see how Microsoft PowerPoint does.
21
I'll change the subtitle settings.
22
Subtitle settings to French.
23
Now, I'll speak the same things again
24
and let's see how Microsoft PowerPoint does this time.
25
I don't understand French at all
26
so I have to take PowerPoint word for it.
27
As you can see
28
it tries to create subtitles live when I'm speaking.
29
If I start to play my presentation
30
you can also enable it here on the bottom.
31
You can see PowerPoint tries to translate live
32
what I'm telling on the presentation to French.
33
I'm not so sure my English is good enough
34
for PowerPoint to understand,
35
but at least it makes its best effort
36
to artificially create subtitles live
37
within the presentation.
38
This can be such a big help
39
for people who have problem hearing properly
40
especially if they sit far away.
41
It's an optional feature, but it's pure magic
42
and it really works.
43
So it's definitely something to look out
44
when you try to make your presentations,
45
especially live presentations accessible.

--- Reading Order and Alt Text in powerpoint presentation ---

1
Within this lecture, I want to talk about alternative text
2
and reading order.
3
Let's say I've prepared this presentation.
4
This is box number one, two, three.
5
Obviously, this is how I want it to be read.
6
I'm going to review, I'm going to check accessibility
7
and here in the accessibility we have reading order pane.
8
I can see the reading order is improper.
9
I should take group number three and put it at last.
10
Why is that important?
11
It's very important if someone uses a screen reader
12
I have enabled a screen reader for myself.
13
Let's preview this presentation
14
Slideshow, slide four.
15
One, a pictogram is a chart that uses pictures
16
to represent data.
17
Three, two basic ways to use pictograms.
18
Two, pictograms can make your data more memorable.
19
Accessibility .pptx PowerPoint, slide four, slide view.
20
Did you see the problem?
21
If your reading order isn't properly set up
22
the screen reader will read it in a wrong order.
23
The same goes for alternative text.
24
When someone, for example, gets your presentation.
25
Here is a picture.
26
If I select edit old text, there is no alternative text.
27
But on the second picture, I've enabled some text.
28
I wrote it myself.
29
One wing of a plane on a blue sky.
30
Now look at that.
31
If someone accesses this presentation
32
and clicks on this picture
33
Graphic
34
He only knows that it's a graphic.
35
But if you give it alternative text
36
Graphic, one wing of a plane on a blue sky.
37
The screen reader will actually know what that is,
38
will read the context of this graphic.
39
It's important that both you get your reading order in order
40
and your alternative text for things that need
41
alternative texts.
42
You can also enable alternative texts for basically any box.
43
For example, if the person would edit this-
44
Grouping, the first box explains what a pictogram is
45
Okay. He would now know
46
that the first box is about this and that topic.
47
Because I right-click it,
48
I selected edit all texts
49
and I explained it in the alternative text.
50
If it's only a decoration, if it's only a box to decorate
51
you can mark it as decorative.
52
If you mark it as decorative,
53
this screen reader will simply go forward
54
avoiding this shape here.

--- Contrast Checker - Advanced powerpoint concept ---

1
Let me tell you about
2
the contrast checker within PowerPoint.
3
PowerPoint can also check the contrast of your items
4
and it will give you a warning here in the accessibility tab
5
if you open the accessibility tools.
6
You can see hard to read text contrast on this oval.
7
However, this text is also hard to read,
8
but PowerPoint doesn't know,
9
doesn't count the background color in.
10
So only if I would take this shape,
11
this is a normal text box, but it is also a shape.
12
If I would go to Shape Format,
13
I would take Shape Fill and I would give it a gray color.
14
Now, PowerPoint would know, "Hey, this gray background
15
on this object makes this text very visible,
16
please correct that."
17
And this is okay, this contrast tracker,
18
that way, PowerPoint told me.
19
But the problem is, if you have PowerPoint,
20
I'm inserting a shape, I'm putting a shape here.
21
I'll even right-click, send it to back.
22
This text is now perfectly visible.
23
But even if this text would be not very visible,
24
PowerPoint still doesn't know
25
because PowerPoint doesn't know,
26
"Hey, is this shape behind the text or not?"
27
This is a separate shape, so this is a little problem
28
with the native PowerPoint contrast checker.
29
It only works if you have a shape and text
30
right within the shape.
31
So this is one object.
32
This text, PowerPoint will take into consideration
33
because it is written directly on this shape
34
while having it selected.
35
So PowerPoint knows what is hard to read.
36
You should know yourself as the designer
37
that you should avoid situations like that
38
where the text is very visible.
39
Let me now show you normal contrast trackers
40
we use over the internet.

--- Checking contrast online ---

1
You know that I like to use website with color schemes.
2
Those websites also help you make your colors accessible
3
and you can see you have WCAG standards 1.
4
we have a double A standard and triple A standard.
5
That triple A standard says if the contrast ratio
6
between you two colors is at least seven
7
your presentation will be very easy to read.
8
So if I make this color darker, this a little lighter
9
you can see that contrast is increasing.
10
This would be a perfect color scheme
11
for using your presentations because it is easy to read
12
on the Adobe website color.adobe.com.
13
Adobe also shows us some suggestions.
14
If we cannot adjust the color
15
we can hit apply to increase the contrast.
16
To increase the contrast ratio.
17
There are plenty of contrast checkers
18
for example, on coolors.co
19
If you go to tools
20
there is also a contrast checker and basically
21
any color scheme you use can be checked for contrast.
22
We have the same default colors
23
but you can of course use the colors that you prepared
24
for your presentation.
25
For example, something like that
26
would be impossible to read
27
but if you give it a black background, all of
28
a sudden the contrast is beautiful and it'll be superb even
29
for triple A rating because we have a contrast above seven.
30
Remember about that when you select your color schemes
31
for your presentations to also be mindful
32
about the contrast with experience
33
you will also know which colors contrast well together
34
and this will make you a better designer
35
and your presentations more accessible.

--- Color Blind Safe ---

1
Some of you already know about this,
2
but one particular reason why I do love
3
the Adobe Color website
4
is because of the new accessibility tools.
5
And not only the Contrast Checker,
6
but we also have Color Blind Safe,
7
and you can see a simulation of how the colors you selected
8
would be seen by people with those impairments.
9
And this is really perfect,
10
because here you can notice no conflicts found.
11
Swatches are color blind safe, and this is perfect.
12
You input your color scheme here,
13
and then you can double check
14
if you have a high enough contrast ratio
15
and if it's color blind safe to make your media accessible.
16
I highly encourage to always do that,
17
or to turn your system filters on on your computer
18
to make your screen grayscale
19
or also simulate those impairments.
20
And this will also make your presentations
21
better and more accessible.
22
I hope you enjoy this content,
23
and we all learn something new.

--- Brush-style Image Placeholders - Font Method ---

1
Hello there.
2
It's, so nice to see you here,
3
because in this tutorial,
4
(gentle slow-beat music)
5
I'd like to show you, how to make those,
6
brush photographs, those placeholders for images.
7
And this is a very simple technique.
8
It's very popular.
9
So, you should know also how to do this.
10
I will show you one way of doing this.
11
Of course, there are a couple of other ways,
12
because we can add, vector splash,
13
or vector brushes into here.
14
Which I will show you the way,
15
doing that with a font.
16
I here for example, found the font, Edo S-Z,
17
which would be very suitable for that.
18
Not only it's free, it has great design.
19
And this would be perfectly suitable.
20
Look, for example, at the letter I,
21
at the letter O.
22
Also here down.
23
Dash element,
24
this dot.
25
Maybe this little element.
26
All those would be perfect for that.
27
So let me get into PowerPoint.
28
Don't use this box, because from this box,
29
it wouldn't work.
30
You need to create a new text box.
31
I will simply get a new text box.
32
And I'll do, maybe this little dash.
33
I'll click on it, and I select my Edo font.
34
Okay.
35
Right now we can't really see it.
36
Let's make it bigger.
37
Perfect.
38
This looks cool.
39
Let me maybe, start with that.
40
I'll press Control C + Control V,
41
and I place it on the site,
42
to maybe also create a...
43
And I'll maybe also create a dot.
44
Now this would be, as well perfect.
45
Alright, so how to do this entire thing.
46
You need to go to insert, shapes, and you need to enter
47
the shape.
48
The shape, has to cover this object.
49
Now you just take this object,
50
you place it over it.
51
Well, we can't see it, so,
52
right click and bring to front.
53
You have this object selected,
54
press shift on your keyboard,
55
select the object beneath it.
56
Now go to format, merge shapes, and simply intersect them.
57
What we get now, is instead of a font,
58
we get this vector object.
59
Maybe let's reshape it a bit.
60
I for example, think, something like this,
61
would be super awesome.
62
Okay.
63
You can always, since this is a vector object,
64
you can right click,
65
edit point,
66
and edit the points a little.
67
What I wanted to achieve here,
68
I wanted the middle to be black.
69
So let me make...
70
I would like the middle to be black.
71
Okay now, this point isn't helping me,
72
because they are crossing each other.
73
I wouldn't want that.
74
I, I would need to select and delete a few point,
75
but let's hey,
76
let's make it like that.
77
Okay, we have something like this.
78
This little element, that's no problem.
79
You simply select another shape,
80
and you just cover that up.
81
And boom!
82
You are basically ready.
83
Now select all of them,
84
because this would be a prepared placeholder.
85
Go to format.
86
Again, to merge shapes, and you want to,
87
union, all those objects.
88
Because I want this, to become one object.
89
Now, don't be put off about the color.
90
You can always click create no outline.
91
And you can make it black, again if you wanted,
92
but I'll place this image inside of this.
93
And let's see how this will go.
94
Right click,
95
format shape.
96
Inside of the fill options,
97
I select picture or texture fill,
98
and I from the file options, select my picture.
99
Having this here, I'm really happy because,
100
this looks really amazing.
101
Remember, that you can always go to the format,
102
and to the crop options.
103
Inside the crop options, you can always take the photograph,
104
and you can reposition, reshape, this photograph.
105
Because, if you take this object, and reshape this object,
106
you see this photograph becomes distorted.
107
So always remember, format.
108
You can crop the image.
109
You can crop it back.
110
Of course, the image would be now too small.
111
The image is something like this.
112
So I would need to press Control Z,
113
and leave it like that.
114
The same principle, would be with this little object.
115
This one looks, even better.
116
And, you can, for example, do a letter I.
117
Let me show you what eventually you could do.
118
Hold to,
119
object,
120
make the object send to back,
121
select this, select this,
122
format,
123
merge,
124
interesting.
125
This is why I told you, that you could also implement,
126
vector elements, vector brushes, ready vector objects,
127
inside of PowerPoint,
128
and then use these.
129
But we are using the font method, and this,
130
could be Control C + Control V.
131
We could duplicate this a few times.
132
We could create really a custom shape with it.
133
Now I would need to make, a few adjustments,
134
maybe a few custom points here,
135
make something really outstanding, from it.
136
And boom!
137
Something like that.
138
I don't even have to group it.
139
I would go to format, merge,
140
I would union them,
141
boom!
142
And, I have another, very cool placeholder
143
for my photographs.
144
So this is, one way of doing this.
145
I hope you did enjoy this tutorial.
146
This is a very popular to me.
147
I didn't invent this.
148
I just know that, this is one way of doing this,
149
so I wanted to share this technique with you,
150
with for example, a dark background like we have here,
151
boom!
152
This really becomes, something really awesome.
153
I would even set it with a eyedropper,
154
the color of the sky,
155
and now this looks even better.

--- Design a Banner In PowerPoint ---

In this lecture.
We will take a look how to make this type of banner inside of PowerPoint.
I have downloaded a couple of example pictures, a colour scheme and the original design.
Now let me bring all of that into PowerPoint to shorten the design time.
All right, we have the picture.
We have the design, which we are kind of going for and some colors.
Okay.
The first thing you want to change, if you are doing a banner, you want to know the size of the banner.
But if you don't, you can simply go to design slide size and go to custom slide size.
Now we have the width and height in inches here, but I can do a little trick.
Let me go for 920 and press P and it will automatically convert into inches the same for the height.
Let's for example, go to for 600 pixels.
This is an approximate normal size for this kind of banners.
I have nothing here so I can press maximize.
It doesn't matter.
And this is my new slide dimension.
I want to start with the picture in the background.
And as you can see, the picture should be much bigger.
So I'll take my left shift key and left control key and make it big enough so it covers the entire slide.
Once I have done that, I'm going to picture format crop.
And I'm cropping this design until I see the slide.
I can see my slide is here.
The red line helps me to indicate that my slide is here and my slide is top.
And on the left side the slide is here.
Okay.
Right now you do not have to leave the picture as is.
You can still move the picture around within the new cropped area.
I'll move it towards the upper side.
I want to have maybe more of the city, a few of the cars and the people.
Okay.
Crop And this is a perfect background.
Now in order since in this picture we have it black and white.
If you want to achieve the same result while having the picture selected, you go to color and you simply
lower the saturation to 0% if you want to have no colors.
If the photograph seems too bright for you, you can also go to corrections and you can correct it to
make it really, really dark brightness, both brightness and contrast.
In this case, I want it very dark, so I'll go for the lower brightness and more contrast.
All right.
The next step is to create those two upper shapes and those are really interesting.
So in order to do them, I'm using my shortcut with alt two.
But you can go to insert shapes and it seems that the triangle here will do the work.
So I'm doing a triangle like that.
I can just freestyle with it and I can then turn it around by pressing down my shift key.
And turning it around.
Oh, I see.
I got it totally wrong, but that's no problem.
I can very easily resize the triangle to the appropriate sizes.
When it comes to the shape fill, while having this triangle selected, you want to select white.
Go to shape outline and select no outline.
So it's simply Ctrl D, I bring it to the right side and with my shift key again, I just turn it around.
All right?
And now I want to use the secondary color.
Let's use a color that we selected, not exactly the same color that we had here.
How you can achieve that very simply.
Shape fill, eyedropper, click and just select the color you want.
I kind of want to go for this red.
Maybe this right one.
The next thing we can see on this design, if I enlarge it, we have this very cool overlays on the
right and left side.
And this is something that makes this design really, really great.
And I can congratulate the designer.
And now it's our turn.
I'll go quickly to insert and I'll go with a rectangle just because I want to have complete freedom
with the design.
So I have this rectangle.
I'll make it kind of really big.
Then I go to right click.
Edit points and edit the point as I see fit.
It seems that a triangle like that will do the trick.
Okay, so we ended up with another triangle shape outline.
No outline.
Shape fill.
I want the recent red color, but with a slight change.
I want to right click.
Format this shape.
I do not need this color scheme anymore.
Format this shape.
Clicking on it.
On the right side you have transparency.
I'll give it plenty of transparency.
Like 50 or 60%.
I want to make sure that I take the white one.
I right click on it and I bring it to front.
You can see we achieved something very, very similar.
And what's cool, we can at any given point, adjust that again.
Now you can imagine what I will do Ctrl D, I will take this existing triangle shift, turn it around,
place it in the appropriate place and for the color.
Now I will go for white since I have format shaped already opened.
White transparent.
The last adjustment will be to right click on this and bring it to front.
Once you are completed with the design, you may be added here the logo.
Maybe you are added here the contact us text you can go to file save and save this as a Jpeg and this
would be a ready banner to upload anywhere.
As you can see, this design can be adjusted with a few mouse clicks.
You just ctrl D and you can change any element you see here.
For example, making some of the elements bigger, making some of them smaller and the design will look
completely different this way.
By adding a few elements, you get always a unique twist on the design.
For example, putting text on the side, putting text on the top side, maybe deleting some elements
in the middle.
And as you can see very easily we get variations of the same design.

--- How to make custom shapes in PowerPoint with Merge Shapes and Align ---

By now, you probably know that PowerPoint isn't the best design software when it comes to custom shapes.
It's not Illustrator.
And I got a beautiful question.
How could we possibly recreate a shape like that?
How to do this in PowerPoint?
It's actually pretty simple.
If you understand the workflow.
At first I want the outlines which create this object.
Let's take a look at this.
We have two rounded rectangles and they are somehow connected to each other.
Insert shapes.
We insert a rounded rectangle.
With my shift key, I add one rectangle, I can put it in the middle so it's a bit easier to design
and I press ctrl D to duplicate this object.
I place this object right on top of the other one.
Shape fill, maybe make it orange to give it a different color.
Now take the corner and try to make it smaller.
But remember to press shift key so you remain on constant proportions.
Press your as you hold the shift key.
Also the Ctrl key so it gets smaller inwards like this.
And now decide upon the size if the snapping comes in the way.
You can also press alt key so all three keys and will make it just a tiny bit smaller.
Now click away.
I select the bigger object first, the blue one.
I press shift and I press on the orange one.
Go to shape format, merge shapes and select subtract.
Subtracting removes one from the other and we remain with this beautiful border.
This is a custom shape made in PowerPoint.
I press ctrl D to duplicate this.
Now I have two custom shapes like that.
Beautiful.
You can either take both of them and press ctrl G to group or if you're like me and you want to have
one consistent shape, just go to merge shapes and combine or union them together.
Union.
We need to click on union and this is now one object.
Now for the middle pattern, it's actually also pretty simple.
It's just difficult.
How do we have to make this in PowerPoint?
You go again to insert shapes.
Sorry I clicked the wrong one.
I want a normal rectangle shape.
I make it pretty small and narrow.
Something like this, but pretty long.
Okay.
Just to make it easier for us.
Shape outline, no outline.
And I will turn this around.
90 degrees so I see it better.
I have two of them.
You need at least 20 or 30.
You need to cover this entire middle part.
So just press ctrl dee dee dee dee dee dee dee dee dee dee dee dee dee dee dee dee dee dee dee dee.
You want at least this many?
Okay.
I put this a bit to the side because I want to arrange everything.
Now I want to select all I created.
Apart from the background ones shape format align.
Align.
Middle align.
Distribute horizontally because I wanted more space between them.
They are now beautifully distributed.
I press Ctrl G to make one consistent group of them and I will start to turn them.
Do we want 45 degrees?
Maybe not.
Maybe I want something like this.
I do not want to go overboard from this space.
And as you can see, I've created a few too many Ctrl shift g to ungroup and delete a few.
I will delete this.
Delete this, delete this, delete this.
Perfect.
I'm in this corner and I am in this corner.
Now I want to select everything.
But not those borders shift.
Click on those borders.
And I want this to become one new consistent object.
Merge Shapes.
Union and this is now one big object to make it easier on my eyes.
I will just again make it orange.
I will come closer and I will put it on the appropriate spot.
Now we need to trim the excess of this shape.
This is very simple.
Again, insert shapes, press on a big rectangle, create a big rectangle which will delete this part.
Rectangle number one control D rectangle number two.
With my arrow keys, I move it ctrl D.
Okay, PowerPoint gives it on the bottom.
Beautiful.
Now I want this one here.
Control D and this one here.
Perfect.
Now we want to select the middle object First shift click one, two, three, four.
Beautiful merge shapes and we want to subtract again.
I just created a custom pattern here in PowerPoint.
Right click send to back so everything looks great.
You want to select the middle shape, you want to shift, click also the borders and press Ctrl G.
This is now one consistent group and beautiful.
You can right click go to format shape, go to gradient fill and you can give it any gradient you want.
Of course you can see those little outlines you want to create shape outline, no outline and it is
now perfect.
Thank you very much for watching and I sincerely hope this expands your knowledge about the program.

--- Modern Neumorphic Design with Shadows ---

Size düz tasarımın tam tersini göstermek istiyorum.
Size bu ilginç efektleri yaratmak için gölgeleri nasıl kullanabileceğinizi göstermek istiyorum.
Böyle bir şekle sahip olmak, örneğin bunun gibi bir slayt veya bunun gibi animasyonlar oluşturmanıza olanak tanır.
Bu tür bir şekli nasıl oluşturacağınızı bildiğinizde bunların hepsi gerçekten mümkündür.
Yeni bir slayt oluşturayım.
Elbette şekil eklemeye gidip daireyi ekleyeyim.
Daireyi slayta yerleştireceğim ve tasarım şeklini ayarlayacağım.
Eski Çizgi, Nulane Şekli Dolgu.
Ben beyazı tercih edeceğim, böylece neredeyse görünmez bir nesne yaratmış olacağım.
Burada beyaz bir şekil var.
Eski şekil seçeneklerini, gölge seçeneklerini kullanmak ve sağ tarafta gölgelendirmek istediğim hazır ayarlardan birini kullanmak istiyorum.
Gördüğünüz gibi, ön ayarlar tamam, ancak aklımdaki tam olarak bu değildi.
Bu şeklin tam sağ kısmına gölge düşürmek istiyorum.
Ve bu gerçekten harika bir etki yaratacaktır.
Bunu her zaman nasıl başarabilirsiniz?
Her zaman bulanıklığı artırarak başlayabilirsiniz.
Bulanıklığı artırmak gölgenin daha soluk görünmesini sağlar.
Sağ tarafa koymak için mesafeyi artırabiliriz.
Elbette açıyı ayarlayabiliriz, ancak bu sefer sağ tarafı kullanmak istiyoruz.
Sol tarafta bir gölge görmemek için mesafeyi büyük ölçüde artıracağım ve boyutu azaltacağım
çünkü elbette bulanıklık gölgeyi gerçekten çok büyük yaptı.
Burada ne kadar bulanıklık istediğinize tekrar karar verebilirsiniz.
Unutmayın, gölgenin görünürlüğünü saydamlık özelliği ile, saydamlık ile ayarlayabilirsiniz.
Gerçek gölgenin ne kadar güçlü görüneceğini her zaman ayarlayabilirsiniz.
Mesafeyi daha da artıracağım çünkü bunun bu nesnenin en sağ tarafında olmasını
istiyorum, boyutu son bir kez daha azaltıyorum ve şeffaflıkla yüzde 28 tamamen iyi olabilir.
Neler başardığımızı görebilirsiniz.
Çok ilginç bir nesne elde ettik.
Bu, sitemizdeki bir tasarım için güzel bir temel olacaktır.
Burada ne yaptığımı görebilirsiniz.
Sadece üzerine bir simge olan daireler ekledim, bir simge olan daire ve bazı animasyonlar verdim.
Size animasyonları gösterebilirim.
Bu özel bir şey değil.
Animasyonlara gidip animasyon bölmesini açacağım.
Bu animasyonları bırakmama izin verin, nesne değil, sadece animasyonlar ve sonra sıfırdan.
İlk başta, bir fly in kullanmak istiyorum.
Tabii ki cennete sol taraftan uçmak istedim.
TAMAM.
Ve daha uzun süre uçmak istiyorum, belki bir nokta yetmiş beş.
TAMAM.
Bu efekte çift tıklayın.
Ve en azından bir saniyelik pürüzsüzlük istiyorum.
Ve böylece animasyon çok yumuşak bir şekilde sona erer.
Tamam, mükemmel.
Bir numaralı animasyonumuz var.
Bunun üzerine animasyonda kullanabiliriz.
Spin kullanabiliriz ve muhtemelen bunun nereye gittiğini tahmin edebilirsiniz.
Bu animasyonları sadece önceki ile seçerek bağlayacağım.
Böylece her ikisi de aynı anda başlar.
Süreyi 175'e düşüreceğim ve bu bir saniyelik yumuşak başlangıcı da vereceğim.
Tamam, mükemmel.
Şimdi bir hareketimiz ve dönüşümüz var.
Bunun önizlemesini yaparsak, bu küçük dönüşü elde ederim ve bunu dört kez çoğalttım.
Farklı simgelerimiz olmalı, ama size hızlandırılmış bir kurs veriyorum.
Uçuşumda temelde tek bir şekil kullanarak bu güzel sonucu böyle elde ettim.
Diğer şeyler tasarım unsurlarıdır.
Tabii ki, burada bazı metin veya nesnelere sahip olmalıyız, ancak bu başka bir zaman için.
Bu ders size arka planda bu şekli nasıl yapacağınızı öğretmekle ilgiliydi.
Uçuşumuz için bir arka plan veya animasyonlarımız için bir temel olabilir.

--- Working with advanced shadows ---

1
Hello I hope you are having a wonderful day.
2
In this short tutorial I wanted
3
to talk about shadows.
4
Now I've created an example slide like that.
5
I have a few elements here,
6
but what I wanted to talk about is those shadows.
7
Now something that people overlook, or don't do,
8
is to work with custom shadows.
9
Let's say that I enter the shape.
10
A very normal circle shape.
11
I give it no outline and I make
12
the shape fill white.
13
Okay this will be the editing part.
14
Now many people if they use PowerPoint
15
and they use shape effect,
16
they go into the shape effect,
17
they go into shadow,
18
and eventually they use one
19
of those simple predefined shadows.
20
Those are great.
21
They are however not perfect
22
and definitely not unique.
23
Very often you do see such a shadow.
24
However this is far from perfect.
25
What I usually do, I also work with the blur.
26
So I click on this element,
27
I right click and I format this shape.
28
And not in the fill options
29
but here on the second options,
30
those are the effect options.
31
In the effect options we've already
32
used the shadow options.
33
And you can see this is the predefined.
34
Like I have the preset,
35
this is the first preset.
36
What I usually do,
37
I work with the transparency at first,
38
I make the transparency lower
39
so I see the shadow better.
40
Then I work up to the size
41
and what's most important I work the blur.
42
And look how beautiful this can look.
43
I would like a small blur,
44
but a very strong one.
45
So for that I need to make it smaller.
46
Something like this.
47
I can eventually work with the angle
48
to make it more aligned.
49
And about the distance.
50
Usually you want to go to zero
51
if you want the shadow to be around this object.
52
But if you want it further away
53
you can of course work the distance.
54
As you can see the angle should be like that.
55
And when my neighbors finally stop using the drills...
56
Well it appears they won't.
57
Maybe I tell a joke.
58
In the meantime,
59
What did a claustrophobic astronaut need?
60
He just needed a little space.
61
(laughing)
62
It's a super joke but the drilling
63
still hasn't gone away.
64
So I will just have to wait a little longer.
65
(drill buzzing)
66
Okay finally this is rounding up.
67
Okay regarding the shadows,
68
the most important thing
69
that this usually not used is the blur.
70
And the blur adds this strong exposure.
71
You can also do this for rectangles
72
and for other important elements.
73
Regarding the size.
74
The size can be close to 100%
75
because the last adjustment
76
should be with the transparency.
77
You can make a small 80% transparency
78
if you want it like that.
79
If you want the shadow to really be strongly visible,
80
you make the transparency less.
81
And now look how cool.
82
You can duplicate this object.
83
For example, and you can go to home,
84
then you can go to it, format,
85
edit shape, change shape,
86
and make a rectangle out of this.
87
Now with a few mouse clicks
88
I'm using again this great shadow
89
that we had here on another object.
90
Let's say for example I would put some boxes here,
91
like this would be the concept of my slide.
92
Here I made an example mock-up I downloaded from the web.
93
I inserted an image,
94
and this is how I used those shadows here.
95
And those shadows can be used on any object.
96
Just remember that you do not only go here,
97
shape effect, shadow, and you just click here.
98
Always go way bottom, shadow options,
99
and work a bit with the blur,
100
with the transparency.
101
Of course with the size and distance
102
but the most important option here,
103
which is often overlooked,
104
and it looks absolutely beautiful,
105
is the blur and the strength of the transparency.
106
I hope this little tutorial was really great for you
107
that drilling didn't get in our way
108
and the joke wasn't even funny.
109
So it all doesn't matter because the tutorial
110
is finished and I hope we've completed
111
this task for today.
112
See ya in other tutorials.

--- Secret F4 Shortcut Nobody Talks About! ---

1
Hello, everyone.
2
I would like to mention a cool shortcut
3
that one of my students reminded me of.
4
If you insert anything, like going to insert shapes
5
or doing any action in PowerPoint,
6
if you press F4, this action will duplicate.
7
So F4 is really a magic key.
8
But it will not work for everything.
9
For example, if I have this shape, I press now
10
Control + C and Control + V,
11
(computer beeping)
12
F4 isn't working.
13
Control + C, Control + V.
14
You know why?
15
Because I did move this object.
16
So my last action was moving the object.
17
So F4 will not move the object.
18
But if I take this object, Control + C and Control + V
19
and immediately afterwards I press F4,
20
it will duplicate.
21
The same goes for changing the fill.
22
F4, F4, F4, F4.
23
If I move and I press F4,
(computer beeping)
24
nothing happens now.
25
You can do this for any sort of things
26
you are doing in PowerPoint multiple times.
27
For example, they are very awkwardly arranged
28
so I want to select them.
29
I want to go format, I want to hit align
30
and I want to align them center.
31
select, F4; select, F4; select, F4;
32
maybe select everything, F4.
33
Everything will align center.
34
So as you can see, F4 in certain situations
35
can be a real time saver, really great option
36
which is something useful to remember about.
37
This is a really great feature
38
which is not often used in PowerPoint
39
because in the shortcut list from Microsoft,
40
we can't really find this as a listing to duplicate a step.
41
So remember about that.
42
F4 can save you a lot of time.
43
I hope as always this was useful
44
and see you in other tutorials.

--- Fill the slide with a picture ---

1
Hey there!
2
Welcome in another quick tip.
3
Do you know how you can always perfectly fit
4
images into a screen so it covers the entire slide?
5
It's very simple, no matter the size
6
and proportion of the picture.
7
Let's say I have a picture like this,
8
a completely weird shaped picture,
9
and, yes, of course, it would be helpful
10
if it has perfect quality.
11
I don't have to take it by hand
12
and resize it and hope for the best.
13
What's the simplest way, is to click crop,
14
make the crop onto the entire screen,
15
onto the entire slide, like this,
16
and just hitting this down button
17
and selecting fill.
18
It will automatically fill the
19
crop area with the image.
20
Now I can take the image, reposition it a little bit
21
to the appropriate place, of course,
22
I want the ball to be in the middle
23
because this is the character of this picture, actually.
24
And, voila.
25
I have the picture perfectly in the middle.
26
If I wouldn't do that, if I would do this by hand,
27
I would have to go like this, hope for the best,
28
then I would need to resize it but look what happens.
29
Then I have to go back again, I need to make it like that,
30
okay, now I have to hope that I am covering the entire slide
31
then I have to go to crop and I would need to
32
make it like that, again see where the slide is
33
and this takes so much time
34
and is so counterintuitive.
35
So, again, remember, take the crop area
36
place the crop area perfectly above the slide,
37
boom, hit crop, fill, done.
38
Easy like that, a very simple quick tip.
39
I hope this will helpful along the way
40
when you create something in PowerPoint.

--- Automatically change page and slide number ---

1
Hello, how are you today?
2
In this tutorial, I'd like to very quickly show you
3
how you can insert numbers onto your slide.
4
This is a great feature,
5
but it's not properly used by users.
6
So, let's say that you have a blank slide,
7
or you even have a ready design, no problem.
8
You want to hit "enter" and you want to make sure
9
that you insert a text box.
10
Let's say the text box will be here on the right side
11
and I'll call it "Slide".
12
I press "space" and from the Insert tab,
13
in the Text portion, you have Slide Number.
14
If I have it like this, where I'm editing the text,
15
and I press on "Slide Number",
16
it will automatically insert the slide number into this box.
17
Now, this is the edited slide number function.
18
If I duplicate this slide,
19
you can see it increments automatically.
20
So, no matter if I copy it several times,
21
it will always give me the slide number.
22
Ctrl + C, Ctrl + V, you can see six, seven, eight.
23
What is the proper way to use it?
24
The proper way is, for example, that you edit this text.
25
You can do this like any other text.
26
You could go to "Home", you could give it any
27
design you want, you could make it bigger,
28
and of course, you could leave only the number.
29
This would maybe look better.
30
Microsoft, on their support website,
31
says that if you want to have slide 8 of 8
32
or 8 of 10 slides, you need to do this manually
33
because the second way, the maximum,
34
the total amount of slides
35
is not available with this option.
36
We can only make a slide counter.
37
Another way of doing this, this is the first way,
38
the alternative way, if you want to do slides with,
39
you don't want to do use this always,
40
is to add a new layout.
41
A layout is something done in the Slide Master,
42
if you don't know what layouts are, this is a separate topic
43
so you can let me know if you would like
44
to know more about this.
45
But this is a completely separate topic,
46
but I'll show you.
47
You can go to "View", enter the Slide Master,
48
and here in the Slide Master, this is the Slide Master,
49
and those are the layouts.
50
We can just right-click and insert a layout.
51
And we can remember that this layout will be only
52
to add our slide counter.
53
I'll hit "enter" and I need to remember
54
that I cannot insert a placeholder.
55
I need to insert a text box, this is very important.
56
So you insert a text box, like that,
57
and you need to be in editing mode
58
because if I select the text box like this,
59
I go into Insert and I insert slide number,
60
you have this pop-up and it's for header and footer,
61
so PowerPoint will edit here and we don't need that.
62
You need to be in editing mode,
63
which is clicking here so this little line
64
appears and disappears.
65
This is the editing mode, and right now,
66
you can select Slide Number.
67
You see what happens?
68
In the Slide Master, it looks like that,
69
and what's cool that we can set this up once
70
and then you can use this in any slide we want.
71
So let's say that I'll go to "Home",
72
I'll make this bigger,
73
I'll select another, more bulky font,
74
something really visible, okay, Franklin Gothic seems okay.
75
I want to make the text less visible,
76
okay, like this, and this will be our little slide number.
77
Now I go to Slide Master, I exit it,
78
and any new slide I create, for example here,
79
I just right-click,
80
I select my layout,
81
and somewhere here is the new layout I created.
82
It's this custom layout, you can see on the right of side,
83
and if I click on it, we have already the slide number.
84
Now when you create new slides,
85
it automatically knows that you are using this layout.
86
If you, for example, want to create a slide a different way,
87
you don't want this number here,
88
you just right-click, layout,
89
you change back to the normal layouts,
90
don't worry about that.
91
And layouts are not as important,
92
you can change the text and the boxes.
93
And here is a very empty layout
94
because I prefer always to have my shortcut,
95
Alt + 1, boom, new text boxes.
96
Alt + 1, boom, new text boxes.
97
And this is a great way of forgetting about this,
98
but having it here.
99
This way, you can very simply make a slide counter,
100
which will work automatically inside
101
of your PowerPoint presentation.
102
I hope this is very useful for you,
103
thanks for watching this video
104
and I hope we see each other in other tutorials like this.
105
I don't know if I should say like every YouTuber,
106
remember to subscribe and hit the notification button.
107
I feel like if you want to listen to me
108
and if you want to watch those tutorials,
109
you already know that.
110
So if you are interested in such tutorials,
111
subscribe and we see each other the next time.

--- Record presentations with Camtasia ---

1
Hello and welcome in this tutorial
2
where I want to show you how
3
to record your PowerPoint with Camtasia.
4
When you install Camtasia,
5
you install the program and the recorder.
6
It ultimately also adds this add-in into PowerPoint
7
but it doesn't matter if you use this add-in
8
or you manually open up the recorder and start recording.
9
Because when you use this it does exactly the same
10
only it opens when you start your presentation.
11
I would like to use the recorder manually
12
because this will give me the same result
13
only I will have to,
14
everything which I recorded prior
15
to hitting start presentation.
16
So, you have your recorder, you have a big red button here.
17
You simply click record then you go to your PowerPoint.
18
You can hit F5 or you can go here
19
on the bottom side to slideshow.
20
Oh, and my first mistake is not making this minimized.
21
So I would go back.
22
I would waste important seconds.
23
I would minimize this recorder
24
and now I would start my presentation.
25
Everything on my screen right now is recording.
26
So I would explain Our Design Better presentation to you.
27
I would go forward with my presentation
28
and also, the camera is recording in case you have a camera
29
and you can, of course select, if you want the camera,
30
or if you do not want a camera
31
and I also selected to record my entire screen
32
because my screen is bigger than a full HD normal video.
33
So I have the presentation, it's running,
34
I'm using my arrow keys
35
to navigate through the presentation.
36
I'm explaining you all the steps and I would be finished.
37
I would thank you for the presentation.
38
I have thank you for watching,
39
which I will do later.
40
And you can go back to your recording and you hit stop.
41
Hitting stop opens a new window
42
and you can save your recording.
43
Here on the right side, you can click Save.
44
And you select a place where you want
45
to Save your recording.
46
Once the recording is saved,
47
Camtasia will open up automatically
48
and the Camtasia file will automatically Import here
49
into the Media Bin.
50
Let me do this right now.
51
I will Import the two minutes and 20 seconds I have.
52
I will click stop.
53
Okay, I'm continuing the work right now.
54
As you can see I have a new recording.
55
The audio level is like that.
56
My camera is also recording.
57
Let's maybe minimize this and as you can see
58
the recording hasn't imported.
59
What I would do, I would just go to the place
60
where the presentation started.
61
It was somewhere around here.
62
Okay?
63
It recorded because PowerPoint Scales it full HD
64
and my screen is bigger.
65
This is why the screen here is smaller.
66
So, what to do now?
67
At first, I would take this and press CTRL + X
68
to delete everything prior to the presentation.
69
Then I would go at the end.
70
Here was the end of the presentation.
71
I would take all that, CTRL + X again.
72
If you don't want to use shortcuts,
73
you can also click here, where is it?
74
I'm only using the shortcuts so, not Paste,
75
of course Cut, boom, Cut.
76
So, this is my presentation.
77
What I would do now.
78
I have two sources.
79
I have my camera source and my video source.
80
My video source should be bigger to be extended
81
to the entire screen, okay?
82
Perfectly I have it now on the entire screen.
83
And the camera, if you want the camera,
84
I would make it bigger.
85
I would press my left ALT key to crop it
86
and then do a Visual Effect.
87
This is only in my case
88
because I have a green screen behind me.
89
I would drag and drop, Remove the Color.
90
I would make the color around 70%,
91
this usually gets the job done.
92
I would make this smaller, I would put myself here.
93
And boom, we have the ready presentation,
94
maybe I am in the way.
95
We have the presentation, everything is well recorded,
96
and ready basically for publishing.
97
In order to publish, you need to render out the video.
98
Now you may ask, what size is the video?
99
I know that the video was recorded in a high quality,
100
so I will render it out as a full HD file.
101
I am usually pressing CTRL + P to produce the video,
102
CTRL + P, but if you don't know where it is,
103
you can simply go to Share and Custom Production.
104
I prefer to have a Custom Production set up,
105
but you can add a Preset or just simply go
106
in New Customer Production.
107
MP4 would be my preferred file format.
108
I'm going forward.
109
Always deselect this because this produces some kind
110
of video controller for this Camtasia type of video,
111
but you do not want that,
112
you want a normal MP4.
113
This size will of course remain full HD
114
with if you want to go HD,
115
I'd go 1280 x 720.
116
Video Settings now the Frame rate, 30 fps,
117
the 60 was just a test.
118
60, the quality, around 70%, I publish all my videos
119
at around 70% quality,
120
it's 'cause this gives me rather high quality rendering
121
than a lower quality.
122
The files are a bit bigger but it's not considerable,
123
I think we should go for quality.
124
So, select the Quality as you would like.
125
Click Next, Next, Finish.
126
This would be the ready video press.
127
It takes a few seconds to render,
128
but I would have my rendered ready video ready to publish
129
and this is it.
130
How we record videos, how you record videos
131
with Camtasia and use, for example,
132
your presentation as the source.
133
I'm stopping now the recording.
134
Thank you very much for listening
135
and I hope you can very soon record
136
your own presentations and of course videos as well.
137
See you in the next tutorials.

--- PowerPoint Photo Album - 2 Methods ---

1
Hello, in today's tutorial,
2
I got a question about making photo albums in PowerPoint.
3
Now, let me show you the two options.
4
One option is to select Insert
5
and select the native PowerPoint function
6
which is called Photo Albums.
7
What you need to know,
8
this function is pretty old.
9
What I mean by old, it's kind of legacy
10
because for example,
11
if I have pictures, I cannot drag
12
and drop them here like that,
13
I have to search for the pictures,
14
I have to select them
15
and I have to insert them.
16
Okay, once they are inserted,
17
you basically have those options.
18
You can fit them to slide,
19
so each picture will be one slide
20
or you can make, for example, two pictures
21
on one slide, you can see a small preview here.
22
You can change the frame shape
23
and it isn't something special
24
because you can do this with one click in PowerPoint
25
but this option does it for you.
26
So let's say that I want
27
to have this photo album two pictures a slide.
28
Okay, I can select these two pictures
29
or two pictures with title if I want text with it,
30
so I select two pictures.
31
All should be selected.
32
And I can select Create.
33
This way, I will create a new PowerPoint file
34
with a photo album.
35
Okay, the photo album,
36
what are the advantages?
37
It does everything for us.
38
What is the disadvantage?
39
As you can see, it crops the photographs
40
to fit both on one screen,
41
so one is bigger, one is, for example, higher,
42
it also depends on the picture itself.
43
What is the second option to do photo albums?
44
I'll show you a little trick.
45
You can create a new slide.
46
You can take any amount of pictures you want,
47
for example, if you want more on one slide.
48
Boom, you can drag and drop them.
49
Now I'll zoom out a little bit
50
with Control and my scroll wheel
51
and I'll select all pictures.
52
You can believe me, all of those pictures are selected.
53
The big shortcut here
54
will be going to Picture Format,
55
Picture Layout and just selecting a layout.
56
You can see, do not worry
57
because this is a PowerPoint Smart Art
58
but we can change that.
59
For example, I'll select this rectangle layout.
60
I can now right click,
61
sorry, I need to select actually this very shape.
62
Right click, Group, Ungroup
63
and this is no longer a PowerPoint Smart Art.
64
This is just a group of objects.
65
Then I click again, Group, Ungroup and boom,
66
I can even delete the text boxes if I don't like them
67
or I can use them to write here something.
68
I can, for example, leave this text box here
69
and the big benefit of using that
70
is that all pictures are cropped equally.
71
So this is basically how I would go
72
about going a photo album.
73
Either use Insert, and you select Photo Album,
74
you select files and you make PowerPoint
75
do this automatically for you
76
or you just drag and drop pictures
77
how many you want on a slide.
78
You go to Picture Format
79
and you select its layout.
80
As you can see, we have a bunch of basic layouts.
81
Of course, you can adjust this later
82
but using the layout
83
is just a smart, quick and convenient way,
84
so this would be used when there's more pictures
85
and if you want them to be equal like this
86
and the photo album can be used
87
if you want automated process.
88
Okay, pretty simple.
89
I think this is a good trick
90
but there are certain situations
91
which we'll use this
92
and where we can't use this.

--- Reduce PowerPoint Presentation Size ---

Let me show you a quality of life improvement and reduce the file size of this presentation by reducing
the size of the pictures.
This presentation has eight megabytes of size with only two simple frames.
What we have here are custom fonts and big pictures.
If you have a lot of pictures in your presentation and they might be high quality, you can click on
the picture, go to picture format and if you know that you will not use them anymore, not reposition
them anymore, you can go to compress pictures.
You can select or deselect it depending if you want to apply these options to the entire presentation
or if you want to apply it only to this picture.
I want to apply this to the entire presentation with one click, and I also want to delete my cropped
areas of pictures.
I want the picture quality not to be too low, so I'll stay at 150 DPI, which is still a very good
quality.
You barely will be able to notice the difference.
I'll press.
Okay.
This option has been applied to the entire presentation, which is to those two pictures if I save this
presentation.
The file size will be considerably reduced.
You can see from eight megabytes we went onto one megabyte.
Another little thing is fonts take up a lot of space if they are embedded in your presentation.
Even if you have those fonts installed on your PC, you need to make sure that if you know that you
have those fonts, just go to file options.
And someone who shared this presentation with you might embed the fonts in the file if you do not need
embedding because you know that you have those fonts on your PC, you just deselect this, you press
okay, you save it again.
You check the file size and it will be again considerably reduced.
How to know if you have those ones or not?
Well, you need to know the fonts you have on your system.
Then you simply go to home.
Replace, open the dropdown, replace fonts, and just check what fonts are included in this presentation.
By default, PowerPoint uses calibri.
But in this presentation I used chunk five and doses.
I did this so I know that I have those funds, so I do not need embedding into this file because if
I open this file on my PC, the fonts will be perfectly well displayed because I have them.
Those would be two simple tricks to reduce your presentation size.
I hope this is a very helpful and this little quick tip will reduce your presentation sizes.

--- Slide for school projects - An animated slide example ---

1
Hello everyone and welcome to this design
2
we are going to do here.
3
Today I would like to show something
4
that would be suitable for any school presentation
5
and it would give you a good indication and idea
6
how to approach explaining a topic using PowerPoint.
7
And I got a comment yesterday
8
that too much tutorials are corporate or business oriented
9
so let's do something more fun and it will also give you
10
a great idea.
11
Now, no matter what the topic of your presentation is,
12
I strongly wanna recommend you
13
to use as little text as possible.
14
I went to flaticon.com, which is a website with icons,
15
but you can use any icons you would like
16
or any objects you want to put here.
17
This will be a totally example product.
18
I have here some fruits and veggies
19
and I want to show you on a salad example,
20
how I would approach this slide.
21
Let's say that this would be a slide about cooking
22
or about something and this would be my end result.
23
I would put those items on the left side
24
with my shift + click I select all of them.
25
And now depending on what topic you have,
26
you'll have objects here
27
and it would be very simple to explain.
28
Because the only design I will bring here,
29
I'll press ALT + 2 and I will put a simple rectangle.
30
I want to use the rectangle in the middle of the slide.
31
in order to make sure that I am perfectly in the middle,
32
I can either drag it here until the red line appears
33
or I can simply go to Align
34
and Align it in the Middle and Center.
35
Okay, this should maybe have another color,
36
I will right click, Format Shape.
37
When it comes to the Color, maybe gray.
38
When it comes to the Transparency,
39
well I do not want it to be transparent.
40
When it comes to the Shape Outline,
41
I want to select No Outline.
42
And on this playful slide, maybe let's make it green
43
because we have there's vegetables here.
44
Maybe a light green, okay.
45
On this slide, I would explain you how to make a salad
46
and I would make an animation to work with that.
47
Let's say that you're explaining a school project.
48
The school project can be
49
about something completely different.
50
It can be physics, it can be about roads,
51
about cars, about anything.
52
But I'm using the salad as an example.
53
I would take those three icons.
54
I would go to my Animation,
55
and I would go here and select Lines.
56
Because I want those objects to go to the right side.
57
So I select all of them.
58
I pick the Effect Options and I select Right.
59
Yeah, this is perfect.
60
So, now we can adjust how long this will take
61
and remember, if this would be behind them,
62
just right click and select Bring to Front.
63
Because else, if you Bring it to Back,
64
those would be visible.
65
I want them to be invisible, okay?
66
And then the salad.
67
The salad starts here.
68
I go to Animation.
69
I go to Lines, Effect Options, Right,
70
because I want the salad to appear.
71
Okay, and what do we have?
72
This salad isn't going far enough.
73
So I need to select this.
74
I am pressing my shift key
75
because I don't want to shift it up and down,
76
I just want it to grow like this.
77
Boom, now the last step
78
would be going opening the Animation Pane.
79
And see what happens.
80
Once I click my mouse, those three objects disappear
81
and the salad afterwards on the second click will appear.
82
I can maybe, the delay is okay.
83
I will delay it by 1/4 a second or 1/2 a second.
84
Okay, perfect.
85
So, let me know show you how I would explain the slide.
86
I would explain you how to make a salad
87
with this very simple animation.
88
I know that you don't see the entire screen now
89
because I have my recording set to the middle,
90
but I would explain something about the salad
91
that a convenient way to make a salad
92
would be to chop a papryka, chop up mango,
93
very weird salad, and use some lettuce.
94
And I would click, all three would disappear
95
and once you mix everything in the bowl,
96
you add ingredients, you add some olive oil,
97
maybe some sesame to spice it up, maybe some spices,
98
and voila, on the next click you have a ready salad.
99
This is an example how I would explain the slide
100
without any text on it.
101
And I strongly encourage you,
102
if you do projects for your school,
103
that you use presentation only to visualize
104
what you are explaining.
105
Just like I did here.
106
You do not need much copy, much text.
107
Have the text in your head
108
because you kind of have to like
109
the topic you are explaining
110
and this way it will be automatically,
111
it will naturally come to you
112
to explain something like this.
113
And I guarantee the viewers will be very happy
114
when they see something like that.
115
All right, this is all I wanted to teach you here.
116
So basically I did one object.
117
I would call this a filter
118
and you explain a concept on the left
119
and you show the end result of the concept
120
on the right side.
121
Very simple slide, very good looking,
122
and as you can see pretty effective
123
because I can convey the message in it.
124
I hope tutorials like that are something
125
that you are fond of, that you like,
126
and I'm answering directly to your comments
127
and if you would like to have more such simple tutorials,
128
please let me know and I'd be happy
129
to come up with some ideas how to do items like that.
130
Thanks for listening and see you
131
in other tutorials as always.

--- Colored Text - Word by word or letter by letter ---

1
So, here we are working on animations like that,
2
animations like this.
3
I want to show you all tricks that are necessary to do this,
4
so stay tuned, and let's go.
5
Hello, and welcome in this tutorial,
6
where I want to show you how to animate text
7
word by word or letter by letter.
8
So I'll select the text right away,
9
I have the text prepared.
10
I'll go to animations, and if I open my animations,
11
I have the brush color and font color effect.
12
We rarely use those effects, but here they are.
13
Brush color and font color.
14
It is better to use font color,
15
because it has a few more options, and watch what happens.
16
The text turns into one other color.
17
What can we do with this animation?
18
Actually, pretty much.
19
If we double click on this animation,
20
if we go to its effects options, we have animate text.
21
This is nothing new,
22
because we can animate by word or by letter.
23
Let me select by word, let's say that this
24
will make it kind of readable for people.
25
I'll make five seconds, five percent delay between words,
26
so they don't be so quick, and I'll select OK.
27
Don't grow up, it's a trap.
28
Now, let's imagine that you want people to read this.
29
It will be difficult,
30
because it fades between the entire text.
31
But I said to you that we have plenty of options here,
32
if we double click here.
33
If we go to the effects, we have style,
34
at least in this version of PowerPoint.
35
In the style, we have not only the fade styles,
36
those three are very similar, it's just about coloristics,
37
but we have also the first style.
38
I'm calling this the blocky style,
39
and if we select that blocky style,
40
we have something like seconds delay between words,
41
so let me make it one second of delay,
42
and now, if I hit OK,
43
don't, grow, up, exclamation mark.
44
It's a trap.
45
Once I get after one second, each word would pop up.
46
So this would be kind of more of a, hmm,
47
animation suited for karaoke or for reading by people.
48
You can see the animation did turn to something like this.
49
And this is very specific, because if it's like that,
50
it only appears if we select the blocky style,
51
the entire color style.
52
This way, we get this kind of animation.
53
The only thing is, and I am not sure
54
that this is the same way in each PowerPoint version,
55
if I select the duration now, for example,
56
I would like to dim those behind them,
57
if I select duration, for example, to one second again,
58
I'll play it from don't, you see, it disappears.
59
So it is like jumping from word to word.
60
So depending on which style you want,
61
you can either select the duration,
62
or if you do not want a style like this,
63
you can double click here, you can go to effects,
64
and you can again click on the blocky style, select OK,
65
and it will again turn this full animation,
66
and they will not disappear after the animation has ended.
67
Very interesting, very cool effect,
68
and I am happy that we are able
69
to do something like this here.
70
The last thing you can, for example, do here,
71
I would like this text, this text
72
and this text to be separate.
73
I want to click my mouse and show people, read this.
74
Read this, and then read this.
75
So, we do not have to make three objects,
76
we can double click on the animation.
77
We can go to its text animation options,
78
and then we can group them differently.
79
Because normally text is grouped as one big object,
80
it's kinda obvious.
81
But we can open this,
82
and we can group this by first level paragraphs.
83
Those are first level paragraphs.
84
If we would have bullet points,
85
we could have second level paragraphs,
86
but here, we have first level.
87
I'll press OK, and you can see,
88
the animation did separate into three animations.
89
So now, without doing anything,
90
if I select Shift + F5, and you are my audience,
91
and you say, don't, I click, and you say don't.
92
Then you say grow up.
93
I click, you say grow up,
94
and the animation flows one second after one second.
95
Of course, this is a horrible example.
96
I don't want you to say it's a trap, grow up,
97
but I want you to know that it is possible
98
to make an animation like this for your audience
99
that you can make your slide more powerful.
100
Or you can do something crazier, like retro animations.
101
I could click on this, I would select the blocky style.
102
I would select very short delay, like zero point three,
103
and then I'll select the duration here.
104
Play from, (makes beeping noise)
105
and this could be a example retro style animation of course,
106
I would maybe double click here,
107
or I could set up the color version, it looks like that.
108
Also, with retro, the duration was too short,
109
let me make it longer.
110
So this way, you can make such animations in PowerPoint.
111
There are a quite few variables,
112
and it's difficult to explain unless you work alone in this,
113
but I hope this tutorial is a little bit enlightening
114
that something like that is possible,
115
either prepare this for your audience
116
or try to experiment with that in your presentations,
117
just keep in mind that something like this is possible,
118
and you can color text within PowerPoint.
119
Thank you very much for listening,
120
sorry this is a long tutorial,
121
but it's a kind of big,
122
kind of difficult topic here to talk about this animation,
123
because it has so many options.
124
Thanks once again, and see you in other tutorials like that.
125
Bye.
126
(upbeat instrumental)

--- Advanced Grow & Shrink Animation Technique ---

With this stupid tutorial, I want to teach you an amazing animation technique where you can make any
element repeatedly grow and shrink in front of you to make kind of like a background feeling or an prolonged
animation, which will stay until the end of the slide.
I want to click on the picture and from the animations.
Once I open them, I want to select the grow shrink.
Nothing unusual, right?
By default, as you can see, if I play it from by having the animation pane opened, the grow shrink
is super fast and looks very weird, so I'll double click on it.
I go to the effects panel and we can notice we have the size of 150%.
I'll reduce the size just to 105% and I need to click enter here.
Clicking enter means this setting will be saved.
All right.
So currently, once I click my mouse, I have an animation like that.
A slow grow, but I'm not sure how long I will explain this slide.
So should I make this animation?
Two seconds, three seconds, four seconds or longer?
Now, that's the key question.
You have a couple of tricks how you can make this animation to be seamless, looping and looking amazing.
I'll double click again and use the basic PowerPoint features.
At first.
I want to make the animation to play until the end of this slide.
All right.
So the animation will now repeat infinitely.
Let me reduce it to three seconds so it's quicker for preview.
Currently, once I click my mouse, you see the picture is growing and it starts to grow again because
the animation is repeating until the end of the world.
That's a solid start.
This was the first adjustment.
The second adjustment.
Normally you would do it all at once, but I want to show you the process of doing this.
So we have repeated the animation until the end of the slide.
We can also go to effects and what's cool, we can auto reverse.
What does this option change?
This option makes that within the three seconds when the animation is played, it will both grow and
shrink back.
So during the three seconds it will always grow, shrink, grow, shrink.
As you can see, the animation is no longer because it needs six seconds.
Now it grows for three seconds.
And it makes itself smaller for three seconds.
The problem here is the motion in which it bounces back is very static.
So in order to adjust this, I will show this to you in a shorter duration.
The way to adjust this is to double click.
Go to effect and give it a smooth start and smooth end.
What this will do, the animation will start a little slower and at the very end, when it becomes like
the biggest and the smallest, it will stop for a brief moment or it will get a bit slower.
Currently we have the animation adjusted, so with a simple grow shrink animation by giving it repeat
until end of slide auto reverse and a bit of smooth start and end.
We've adjusted this animation to become something like that.
Once we click, you can see this image is really pulsing.
It's pulsing very smoothly because we have the bounce beginning and bounce end.
And of course right now it's like too intensive for the viewer, but you get the idea.
You can always make the duration longer.
This way it will take six seconds to play back and forth and you would have a very pleasant effect on
the back of your slide while explaining something.
It doesn't have to be a mountain.
You got it right.
It can be even a different picture.
This will be always a very clever and useful PowerPoint trick to remember.

--- Custom Slide Transition ---

With this video.
I want to show you how to go from slide number one to slide number two, with a custom transitions like
that.
You can repeat and copy this over to other slide as long as you have one color background.
All right.
How to go about this?
Actually, we have three animated boxes which fly into the slide and create this transition.
Let me delete them to show you exactly how to do something like this.
At first you want to go to insert shapes and you want to insert a rectangle shape.
Take this rectangle and make it to the size of the slide.
Okay, perfect.
Now you want to put it perfectly above the slide.
If you are not certain if this is perfectly above the slide, you can right click format shape.
And in the format shape.
On the right side, you have size and properties in the size and properties you have position.
Just make sure that it is zero and -7.5.
This makes sure that the rectangle of the size of the slide is perfectly above it.
Once you have this step ready, you can go straight into animations.
Open the animations and give this object a line animation.
Let me close the format background and open the animation pane.
This animation pane shows now that we have one animation on the text, but this is irrelevant.
But the blue animation is a motion path animation and you want to take this red object of this motion
path and you want to put it here on the slide.
Exactly.
So it covers up the entire screen.
Right now, you can maybe reduce the duration to one second.
It depends on what kind of motion you want.
And you can right click and get start with previous.
I'll move it a bit forward and let me preview this animation.
If you will preview this animation, you can see this object flies perfectly into the slide.
You can notice a blue line here.
You can get, of course, rid of that by clicking on this object shape, format, shape, outline and
make no outline.
Currently, we have this beautiful animation of this object falling onto our screen, but we are not
quite there yet, but we are very close.
Click on this object, double click on this animation and on the effect options.
Make sure that you reduce the smooth start and increase the smooth end.
This will make sure that the animation will have a slower ending.
And this is like perfectly what you want from a transition to the next slide because you want the next
slide to be like slowly introduced and then the animations move forward.
To continue with our transition, you have to decide how many of those boxes you want to fly down from
the sky.
In my opinion, like two, 3 or 4 is the optimal amount.
Let's go for three.
You will just click on this object control D, move it somewhere else, control D, move it somewhere
else.
So you perfectly see the difference in the colors.
You need to make sure that the object most in front of you.
Is the same color as the background on the next slide.
If the next slide would be white.
So this last one should be white as well.
This will make for a seamless transition.
Let me select the last the most in the background one.
Shape format.
Shape fill eyedropper and I have here colors preferred, so I'll just use them.
Go ahead for the next.
Eyedropper.
Maybe this orange.
And for the very last one, I want the color from the next slide to make sure.
I'll just go.
Shape fill, eyedropper.
And I select the color directly from the slide in the animation pane.
I want to click on each of them, and I want delay this animation so they do not happen at once.
I want a small delay between all of them, so I am staggering them.
All right.
Now I can preview the animation on this entire slide.
One, two, three.
Okay.
Perfectly.
Everything flies in seamless.
You can now take your skills and position it perfectly.
Or as I shown you previously, you can just right click format shape, depending on which way you prefer.
You can go to the sizing options and the position option and just click here.
Zero -7.5.
-7.5 Enter and you are sure that everything is perfectly aligned.
You are basically done with this transition.
And what's also great, you can just take those three animations, Ctrl C, I have them already here,
but I've delete.
I will delete them and ctrl v them onto any slide you would like.
What you need to make sure is go to transitions and make sure you do not have on mouse click selected.
But after zero seconds after zero seconds tells PowerPoint that the slide needs to proceed to the next
slide.
Once all animations are done.
In my case, this is exactly the place when I want this slide to proceed to the next slide.
If you need more time to like elaborate on your slide, no problem.
Move those animations a bit forward to the place you want.
You can even move them.
Of course.
20s.
It depends on what you have to say, but for the sake of the video, I want of course, short durations
between the slides.
This is slide number two.
Let's transition.
This is slide number three.
Let's transition to the end.
Boom, boom, boom.
Beautiful.
And my presentation is ending.
I hope you've learned a lot about positioning and animating, and this will be worth to remember.
Thank you and see you in other videos like this.

--- PowerPoint Donut Chart ---

Hello and welcome.
In this tutorial about a donut chart, I want to show you how to design something like that and how
to animate it, because I was asked how could we possible animate this type of donut chart?
Now there is an important thing that we start right here from the top side because we are limited by
the animations that PowerPoint gives us.
We need to use the wheel animation and the WIP animation and the wheel animation always start from this
point, like clockwise.
So this is why this design looks like that.
All right.
But first things first.
This video will be separated into the design part and the animation part.
Let's make a clean canvas, right click format background.
And I went for a dark background.
You can click on gradient fill or a normal solid fill.
I simply used a gradient I found on gradient.com.
I went to show all and I have just selected a dark one like this Midnight City or Mirage.
You can click here Eyedropper, click here inside of PowerPoint, move your mouse and just select this
gradient.
Once you have a background established, you want to go to insert shapes and you will be looking for
this little shape.
This is the block arc shape.
We will design one of those.
I will press my shift key and I will make an arc like that.
I want to make sure that this will be the starting point.
I select this rotation tool.
I click on it, I press my shift key and I rotate this object.
So it's even in this point, my first donut is around 93%.
So I want to make it almost full.
How do I do this?
I just take this yellow dot.
I move it forward and I can also make this thicker or thinner.
So I make it pretty thin like this because I plan to create two of them.
So I press Ctrl D to duplicate it and I simply make it smaller so it approximately covers this object
over it.
Once you have both created select them, shape, format, shape, outline and select no outline.
When it comes to the design, I showed you that I use gradients.
I will select the outer one.
Make sure that you selected the outer one right click format shape and you will have the formatting
open.
Go to gradient fill.
It automatically selects the previous gradient, but actually here I want a different gradient, so
I'll select the first color.
I'll open it eyedropper again, click inside of PowerPoint and use this blue one.
Perfect.
Now the second color for some reason, PowerPoint.
When I click here, sometimes you need to click twice this eyedropper.
So I click in PowerPoint.
I click once again on the Eyedropper.
I click inside in PowerPoint and I grab this teal color.
All right, this is everything you need to know about the gradient.
Now, on the next object, you will already have the colors memorized.
When you go to color, you can see I have those two colors here.
So I just select color number one.
Oh, sorry, gradient.
Basically, PowerPoint should copy the gradient, but if not, you have the colors in the recent colors.
I will select both colors.
Open more colors.
Here you can copy the exact color value since since sometime.
PowerPoint also allows hex colors, which is great.
What I want to do with this color to distinguish between the inner and the outer part is make this a
bit darker.
All right.
A bit darker for both colors, more colors.
Making it darker will give this entire design a bit of depth.
As you can see, if they are not touching each other.
As weird as this sounds, you can simply make this again a bit bigger with your shift key and with your
arrow keys.
Position it properly.
All right.
Perfect.
This design will be almost finished.
Now I just inserted a text box, inserted a triangle or something like a triangle and a circle in the
middle.
But that's not super mandatory.
You can, for example, make it simpler by going to insert text box like 92% this time.
And I make this text box bigger because I don't want to waste your time Ctrl B to make it bold.
Of course I should select a different font.
In my case I selected doses, which is an amazing font and when it comes to the font gradient, you
don't have to click on shape, you have to click on text options, text options gradient, and we should
repeat the color.
So let me make this very quickly.
Boom blue.
And this was the second blue.
All right.
We can change the angle if we want to, to like more match this entire design from right to left side.
And this would be how we created the design part of this animation.
Now watch closely.
The reason I'm using the wheel animation to animate this because that's how I animated it.
I animated each object separately, those two, then this and then the text.
So everything flows nicely together.
But the problem is, when it comes to smaller lines like this, I will show you why.
If you want to animate this design, select the maybe the inner as well.
With the shift key, go to animations and select the wheel.
The wheel always starts from here.
This is why I've started from here as well.
Now Ctrl C, Ctrl v.
Let me show you what would happen if the animation starts from here.
The animation always starts clockwise, so if you would make your donut chart like this, for example.
And you click the wheel, you can see it starts here.
Then it goes around and it stops here.
This looks really weird, so it's easier to have the starting point somewhere.
Here, let me delete this and let's just continue with this animation.
I'll open the animation pane instead of the format background and I want to preview what I did.
Maybe the second animation, I give it a slight delay.
Beautiful.
We have this wheel circle motion.
We can do something about this text.
I click on this text box and I simply give it a wipe.
I will give it a wipe.
And in the effect options, I go from right side.
This is because the circle is revealing from this to this side.
As you can see, this animation is very short.
I want to right click select with previous.
I want to delay it maybe two points so it's 0.75 seconds and make it longer.
So this entire animation flows together as maybe a bit too late.
That's no problem.
We can reduce the delay and everything would flow in nicely together.
This is how you can animate those kind of donut charts in PowerPoint where another problem arises.
The wheel animation.
In my opinion, this is a bug and I will try to contact Microsoft about it because when this line is
much, much closer like this, it's half a line and we select the wheel animation.
Look what happens.
It starts here.
It goes and then it it finishes this part.
So if you have a shorter line like this, for example, 20, 30, 40%, you can do a little workaround,
which will be the WIP animation.
You can select the WIP animation.
And you can simply change the direction from top.
You can see it looks almost identical, almost as if we had the wipe.
So for any line, that is at least half of the circle.
Feel free to use the wheel.
Oh, it seems not.
So it has to be really long to make the wheel possible.
And for those shorter lines, like, for example, half a line or something like this, you can use
the WIP.
Animation, The WIP animation from top, it will look almost identical.
Just look what I did here.
I animated everything here.
It was wheel.
Wheel.
And here it was WIP.
You couldn't tell the difference.
Boom, boom and beautiful.
We have three very similar animations.
As of now, you do not need a bakery to create donuts.
You can create donut charts right here in PowerPoint.
I hope this is very helpful and thank you for listening.

--- Animating series in charts ---

Hello.
Today in this quick trip, I want to show you how you can animate separate categories onto charts.
You can also animate separate columns, but that for later, once you click on a chart, you need to
make sure that you have actually selected it.
It has to say chart design above here.
This makes sure that the chart itself is selected.
Now having the chart selected, I'm going to animations and selecting, for example, fade.
Right now you get a standard animation, as always, a simple animation of this object.
But if you open the animation pane, you double click on the actual animation you should have.
I repeat, you should PowerPoint works different in different versions and different on Mac and Windows.
In the newest Microsoft 365 subscription, I have a chart animation tab I can select.
If the chart should be animated by series, that would be this blue, blue, blue, or by even category,
category one category to category three.
The second option is if you want the chart to be already visible or you want it to be animated as well,
I prefer if it's already there on the screen, so I'll deselect that.
So the chart is already there.
Now if I hit play, I have the chart already there and animation number one, two, three, four will
be the category.
I could also animate my insights.
For example, going here fade.
I would give those insights just quickly selecting them on click animations and I could put them between
the charts or something like that.
This would make for a great animation.
I could press category one.
Let's go to the inside.
Category three.
Let's go to the inside.
Let me delete the inside.
What else can we do here?
We can close that down.
We can again double click on this entire animation.
This actually for animations, chart animation and instead of by category, you have by series by element
in series and by element in category.
You could really make a long and detailed animation about this by series is the other way around.
You will have all blue ones, all the secondary blue, and our 30 are your blue.
Double clicking again.
Chart animation by element in series you get where this is going.
You go one one, one, 1 to 2, two, two, three, three, three, three, two.
This is all I wanted to share in this quick tutorial.
You know what you are doing?
I just wanted to show you how to animate charts itself in PowerPoint.
Please do subscribe to this channel because I will be keeping this channel alive for a very long time.
Also comment if you can on the video.
This will help with the algorithms.
Thank you very much and see you in other tutorials like this.

--- Thank you ---

This was so much fun.
Thank you so much for working through this course with me and for creating the presentation.
I hope you did it.
You did create the presentation and you did create those animations.
What I want to say you what is cool that we will still have new content because I plan on adding more
slide design, more tips and tricks and more animation products to this course to expand upon the knowledge
we already have.
These were the basics to teach you everything you need to know in order to prepare those things.
And here we will expand the knowledge.
I would very much appreciate if you'd like to share a five star review for this course for me.
This will help me as an instructor here on the platform, and this is a way of knowing that I did a
good job.
Hopefully I did.
I do want to teach you as much as possible about PowerPoint as I can.
If there is anything unclear, you can quickly go to the Q&amp;A section.
You can ask a question and I will try to answer it right away.
As good as I can.
There is nothing else left for me to say then.
Congratulations on arriving at this point and thank you 100 million times for spending the time in learning
with me.
That's a great feeling.
And if you'd like, I have plenty of other PowerPoint and after effects courses which you could explore
and learn with me.
I hope this would be something for you.
I can't wait to meet with you another time and see you in other tutorials.

--- Bonus lecture ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]
