

=== Welcome! ===


--- Why Public Speaking Matters ---

-: Picture this, you're at work,
about to give a really important presentation.
All the key players are in the room, your team, your boss,
maybe a few external stakeholders,
all eyes are on you and you're getting ready to begin.
And my question for you in that moment
is how are you feeling?
Maybe you're terrified.
Public speaking is your least favorite thing
in the entire world, and if it is, I feel you.
Or maybe you're excited,
you like sharing your ideas with other people,
and that's great too.
Well, whether you love public speaking or you hate it,
I have good news for you.
This class is for you.
Hi, I'm Jennifer Hennings.
I'm an executive presentation coach
and for the past 20 years,
I've helped thousands of leaders, executives,
students and entrepreneurs overcome their speech anxiety
and give more powerful presentations.
I've worked with clients from all industries
and companies of all sizes,
from CEOs at startups in education and healthcare
to leaders at large organizations
like Google, Apple, Salesforce
and Stanford Graduate School of Business.
Here's what I've learned.
It doesn't matter what industry you're in.
Everyone needs to be able to stand up
and speak up with confidence,
especially when the stakes are high
and that's why I created this course for you.
By taking this course,
you'll learn to be a more connected,
credible and confident public speaker.
Those are the three core principles
we'll be working with throughout the course,
connection, credibility, and confidence.
Now, how are we going to get you there?
I've designed this course to teach you each of the steps
you'll need to follow to develop
and deliver a successful presentation.
We'll start by looking at content development.
How do you figure out what you'll say
and how you'll make it meaningful and relevant
for your audience?
Next, we'll talk about delivery skills.
How do you make sure your body and your voice
are working for you rather than against you
when you're in front of the room?
Next, you'll learn to think and speak on your feet
for all of those unplanned speaking situations
that fill our work days.
And finally, since my clients often tell me
that the nerves are highest
right before they give a presentation,
we'll talk about anxiety management
so you can manage your nerves when the pressure's on.
Now, a note on nerves, if right now
you're feeling like your anxiety is so high
that it's going to keep you from engaging
in all of the sections that come before, by all means,
feel free to skip ahead to anxiety management.
Do that section first, and then come back
and work your way through starting at audience analysis.
Make the class work for you. That's why it's here.
So thanks so much.
I'm excited to be joining you
on your public speaking journey and let's get started.

--- Exercise: Visualize Your Success ---

-: I want you to get the most possible value
out of this class.
And to do that, you need to have a clear goal
and a clear vision for why you're here.
So I've created a reflection exercise that's
gonna help you figure out your goals right now.
Take a look at the attached PDF
and we'll walk through it together.
First, I'm asking you to reflect on why you're here.
Why are you taking this class right now?
And how do you want people to perceive you as a speaker?
Because everyone coming
to this class has slightly different goals, and that's okay.
Some of you might want to be seen as more calm
and knowledgeable, whereas other people might be working
on amping up their energy
and being seen as a more enthusiastic speaker.
So figure out right now why you are here.
Next I want you to reflect
on your current strengths and weaknesses as a speaker.
And you can do this through self reflection.
And you can also think about any performance
review feedback you might have received
from peers or managers over the years.
Next, write down the three most important things
that you wanna learn from taking this class.
And those learning objectives are critical
because they'll help you figure
out where to focus your attention
as you move forward through the material.
Finally, see that big empty box
on the backside of the handout.
Don't skip that part.
This is a really important final step.
This is where you're going to visualize your success.
Where do you want to be at the end of taking this course?
What do you want to be able to do
as a speaker that you can't do yet?
What will you look like and sound like?
The more specific and concrete this end goal is
the more likely you are to get there.
So shape your goals, shape your vision.
Take this course and make it your own
and that's how you will become a more connected, credible
and confident speaker.


=== Analyze Your Audience ===


--- Know Your Communication Contexts ---

-: Now, you may be thinking about this
as a public speaking course.
And it is. But here's what's great about the course.
The skills you're learning here apply way beyond
simply standup formal presentations.
The skills you're learning in this course
will also help you be more effective
in so many different communication contexts at work,
like facilitating better meetings,
leading better sales calls, feeling more comfortable
presenting to your board.
And so in this next exercise, I'll help you identify
what are all of the contexts in which you're communicating
at work and how and when are you going to apply
the skills that you're learning?
So take a look at the attached PDF.
Let me explain how this exercise works.
Step one, I want you to identify all of the different places
that you have to speak up to other people
over the course of your workday.
Next, figure out which of these contexts
is most comfortable for you and why.
Clients often tell me they're most comfortable speaking up
in situations where either they're the subject matter expert
in the room or they know the people really well
or if you're lucky maybe both.
Next, which of the situations on your list
is most challenging for you and why?
Maybe this is because you never have time to prepare
for that meeting or you're intimidated by the people
in the room or you're speaking about a subject
that you're not as familiar with.
Whatever it is, I want you to identify the tough spots
as well as the easy spots.
And now here's why knowing the difference
between your contexts is so valuable.
I once worked with a client who was really, really nervous,
to the point where he had a lot of trouble
making eye contact with just about anybody in his workplace.
And so he came to me and he had an amazing vision
of being able to make confident eye contact
with his CEO every time he spoke to her.
Well, guess what?
Step one in our coaching was not
go make eye contact with your CEO.
That was way farther than he could go
comfortably at that moment.
So step one instead was hey,
let's look at your communication contexts.
Where are you more comfortable?
And so for him, step one was starting to practice
consistent, confident eye contact
with his team at weekly meetings.
And then slowly, as the weeks went on,
he built up until eventually yes, the end goal
is make eye contact with your CEO.
So identify your contexts,
figure out where you're comfortable
and where you're stretching yourself
so that you can again get the most value out of this class
by applying the skills in your real life on a regular basis.


=== Structure Your Content ===


--- Exercise: Why Audience Comes First - Always! ---

-: When you find out
you have to give an important presentation,
what's the very first thing that you do to prepare?
Often, when I ask my executive clients this question,
I hear one of two answers.
Either, "Oh, I open up a blank slide deck
and I start making my slides,"
or, "Oh, I open up a blank doc
and I start writing down all the points I wanna cover."
And yes, you may end up with a slide deck,
and you'll probably need some form of speaker's notes,
but neither one of those is the most important first step.
Instead, the very first thing that I want you to do
when you find out you have a presentation
is to get to know your audience.
Remember our three core principles,
connection, credibility, confidence?
This is where connection really comes into play,
because when we're nervous and preparing a presentation,
it's really common to be very self-focused.
And I picture it as though we've got a spotlight
shining right here on ourselves,
and we're thinking things like, "What am I going to say?
What are they gonna think of me? How am I gonna do?"
And really what you wanna do here
is pivot that spotlight outward,
shine it on the people in the room,
be focused instead on questions like,
"Who's in the room with me,
what do they need from me,
what are their questions,
and how can I make the best use of their time?"
So in this section,
you'll learn a three-step audience analysis process
so that you can better know who's in the room
and shape your content so it'll be meaningful
and relevant for them.
Right now, go download the PDF
that's attached to this lesson,
and we'll walk through step one together.
This exercise is called know who's in the room,
and it's a series of questions you can ask yourself
about your audience to get to know them better.
Now, the first question is pretty simple.
Who's in the room with you? Who's your audience?
You might have an audience of one,
you might have an audience of 50.
If it's a large audience, you don't need to name everyone,
but I do want you to identify
all of the key groups of people who'll be there.
Second, what do they want?
People could want a lot of different things
out of a presentation.
They might want to understand
how the new HR policy will be implemented.
They might wanna understand
how they're supposed to upgrade their software.
Or they might want reassurance
that they're not all about to be laid off.
Whatever it is, it's really important that you understand
all the different desires that are at play in the audience.
Next, how do they feel about your topic?
Maybe they're stoked.
You're talking about everyone's favorite project,
and there's really good energy in the room,
and that's fantastic.
That's a wonderful situation to walk into,
and that's going to affect the tone that you use.
But let's say you're talking
about a topic that's frustrating,
that's gonna piss people off.
Well, that's a different emotional feeling,
and you need to know that as well.
Next, two questions that go hand in hand.
What does your audience already know about your topic,
and what do they need to know
in order to fully understand you?
And that first question is critical,
because you don't wanna bore them
with information they already know.
And the second question is just as important,
because you don't wanna leave out key pieces of information
that will keep them guessing.
Think about it.
Often you get asked to present
on a project that you know really, really well,
something you work on day in and day out,
but the people listening to your presentation
usually don't know that project
or that topic as well as you do.
And so you need to get into their heads and think,
"What gaps do I need to fill for them
so that they can fully understand what I'm trying to say?"
Now, the next question is probably
the most important on this entire handout,
and that's, what questions do they have?
I want you to think about not just the easy questions
that the audience might ask,
but those tough, thorny questions
that you really hope they won't ask.
Get all of those out on the table. Why?
Well, when you think about it, a good presentation,
it's often simply the answers to questions
that are top of mind for your audience.
I work with a lot of startup CEOs who are pitching
their ventures to VC firms here in Silicon Valley.
And those pitches, they're answers to a series of questions,
like, "What's the problem you're solving?
What's your solution?
How are you better than your competitors?
How will you make money?"
So think about the questions that you need to answer
in the course of your presentation.
Finally, where might your audience be resistant,
hesitant, skeptical to what you have to say?
Maybe you're lucky and they're not skeptical.
Maybe they're neutral or they're positive.
But if there is any hesitance or skepticism in the room,
you don't wanna ignore it or dance around it.
You wanna go straight to it, name it, identify it right now,
so you can proactively address it
as you move forward in shaping your content.
So that's it. That's how you know who's in the room.
And I want you to take this exercise and apply it right now
to your next meeting or presentation
that you have coming up.


=== Tell Your Story ===


--- Exercise: Set Your 3-Part Speaking Goal ---

-: Now that you know who's in the room
for your next presentation,
let's do step two of audience analysis,
which is setting your three part speaking goal.
Take a look at the attached PDF,
and again, I want you to think
about this with a real presentation in mind.
Here's how this three part goal works.
First, what do you want your audience to know
as a result of your presentation?
For example, maybe they need to know the three steps
to submitting expense reports on your new platform.
Second, how do you want them to feel
as a result of your presentation?
Maybe you're going for a really positive feeling,
getting your team pumped up before a big project
or a big deadline that's coming up,
or maybe you're trying to instill a sense of urgency
to help your team move more quickly toward a deadline.
It's important to know the feelings
in the room as well as the content.
Finally, what do you want your audience to do
as a result of your presentation?
This might be a really concrete call to action,
like I want them to fund my proposal,
or it might be a more subtle call to action,
like I want this group to take me more seriously
and stop interrupting me at meetings.
So again, with a real life situation in mind,
apply your three-part speaking goals
so you know what you want your audience to know, feel,
and do as a result of your presentation.


=== Speak Like a Pro: Delivery Skills ===


--- Exercise: Craft Your 12-Word Message ---

Speaker: Now that you know who's in the room
and you've set your three part speaking goal,
it's time for the third and final step of audience analysis,
which is called crafting your 12 word message.
And here's how it works.
Whether you're speaking for five minutes or five hours,
I want you to boil down your message
to a single 12 word sentence.
And there's a handout attached
to this lesson to help you out.
Now why is it so important
to have that 12 word message at hand?
This is going to become your guiding light.
It's what helps you shape your content,
figure out what goes into your presentation
and what stays out.
A colleague of mine at Stanford
used to talk about the IBI test,
and it stands for interesting but irrelevant.
And your core message, your 12 word message,
is what's gonna help you figure out,
what's relevant and irrelevant to your presentation.
So again, with a real life situation in mind,
figure out what's your 12 word message,
so we can use that in the next section
to start shaping your content.


=== Think and Speak on Your Feet ===


--- How the Power of 3 Will Change Your Life ---

-: Now that you've analyzed your audience
it's time to start thinking about shaping your content,
how to structure your ideas
and figure out what you're going to say.
Now, when it comes to structure
the core principle that's really
at play here is credibility.
Think about it.
Some of your credibility
as a speaker comes from your credentials, your background
your expertise in the topic.
But another aspect of your credibility comes
from how logical and well organized
and well reasoned your material is.
And that's what we'll work on in this section of the class.
How to organize your ideas so they're memorable
for you and they're memorable for your audience.
And the technique that we're working on here
it's called the power of three.
And I think the best way to teach it
to you is to demonstrate it.
So with the power of three
you start by thinking about your presentation
at the highest possible level from start to finish.
And you ask yourself, what are the three most
important ideas or concepts that I need to discuss
with the audience from start to finish?
So let's use this course as an example.
The three big pieces of this course are content development,
delivery skills, and impromptu speaking.
Now, you may have noticed there's actually
a bonus fourth piece on anxiety management.
That's what's great about the power of three.
It's flexible.
You can think about it
as the power of three plus or minus one.
Sometimes you might have only two.
Sometimes you might stretch to four.
But the idea here is that you want to aim
for three because that's a memorable, easy to grasp number.
So from start to finish
we've got content delivery and impromptu.
Now let's take one level more detailed
and look at the content section specifically.
What are the three most important aspects
of content that I think you'll benefit from learning?
Well, in this case, we're working on audience analysis,
structure, and storytelling.
And I'm gonna take it one level further and say, Hey
in audience analysis, what are the three most
important aspects of audience analysis that I
think this group will wanna learn?
And those were our three exercises of know who's
in the room, craft your three part speaking goal
and craft your 12 word message.
And for me, as the teacher of the course
that's enough detail to figure out what I wanna say.
So you'll notice you can layer your powers of three so that
at any point in a presentation, even something long
like a day long training or workshop, you're only
ever trying to remember three things at once.
Now, you can also use the power of three
for something much shorter, like introducing yourself
at a meeting.
I can't tell you how often executives come to me and say
You know what, Jennifer?
I've been in my industry for 20, 25 plus years
and I still get nervous introducing myself to new people
at a meeting.
And I say, no problem.
Let's use the power of three to make that moment
more comfortable.
Here's how power of three might work for an introduction.
I might decide to say point one is who I am what I do.
Point two is how I got into this line of work.
And point three is a fun fact
something you might not know about me at first glance
so that power of three could sound something like this.
Hi, I'm Jennifer Hennings.
I'm an executive presentation coach.
That means I get to spend my days helping leaders
overcome their speech anxiety
and give more powerful presentations.
I love my job.
It's the coolest thing I could ever imagine doing.
I actually stumbled into this job by accident.
20 years ago.
I was a freshman at Stanford
and I got a campus job as a public speaking tutor.
And now here I am, 20 years later
running my own coaching business.
I fell in love with communication coaching
and there's nothing else I'd rather be doing.
People often are surprised to find
out that I have not always loved public speaking.
They usually assume that I do because I teach it.
But in reality, I'm an introvert who grappled
with really intense speech anxiety for almost 20 years
and that gives me more empathy
and understanding when it comes
to coaching clients through their own anxiety.
So see how that works.
You can take the power of three
and apply it to something as short
as an introduction and as long as a day long class.
So with your next presentation in mind
start thinking about how you'll use the power
of three to structure your ideas and boost your credibility.


=== Manage Your Speech Anxiety ===


--- The Power of Repetition: Introductions and Conclusions ---

-: Perhaps you've heard the cliche
about public speaking that says,
"Tell them what you're going to tell them,
"then tell them, then tell them what you've told them."
Well, this is a cliche, but there's so much wisdom to it.
And here's how we'll apply it to the power of three.
Often, when you're giving a presentation
you'll use the power of three to structure
the meat of your presentation where you're sharing
your ideas, your examples, your context.
But you'll wanna really give your presentation some cohesion
by adding an introduction and a conclusion.
And what you're doing in that introduction
and conclusion is making sure
to preview and review your main points.
Now, why is that repetition so critical?
Why does that cliche come into play?
Well, guess what, we're human, we're distracted.
At any given point, there's usually at least one screen,
if not more, in front of most members of your audience.
And so if you really want everyone in that room
to walk away remembering your key points
you have to make sure to share them more than once.
Now, again, I think this is something
that's easiest if you hear an example.
So let me show you how it might work.
Let's say, that you have a colleague named Cindy
who's retiring after 27 years at your company
and you have been tasked with toasting her at the party.
Now, you've decided to use your power of three.
And what you're gonna say about Cindy for your power
of three is that how much you love her as a mentor,
the fact that she has an incredible head for detail
and she has an amazing sense of humor.
Now, here's how that might sound
with an introduction and conclusion added on.
Thank you everyone for being here.
We're so excited to be celebrating Cindy
as she moves off into retirement.
I know this is a bittersweet moment
for many of us because we're excited for you,
but we're also sad to be losing you, Cindy.
And I think there are so many wonderful things
I could say about Cindy, but I'm gonna focus
on the fact that she's an incredible mentor.
She has an incredible eye for detail.
And she has the most killer sense of humor.
From my first day at the company,
Cindy took me under her wing.
She let me ask her any question and, as I moved forward,
she really was always watching out for me and for my career.
And I know she's done the same
for so many others of us at the company.
She really truly is somebody who cares about others
as much as she cares about her own career progress.
And I will be ever grateful to her for that.
Not only is she an incredible mentor,
but I don't know if you've met Cindy,
her brain for details is incredible.
Like not only does she remember the big picture aspects
of a project, you can ask her how much
a particular product earned in Q3 like seven years ago,
and there's a good chance she'll know the answer.
And that makes working with her
on any project really, really great.
Finally, I will be ever grateful
to Cindy for her sense of humor.
I have been in the office with her for many a late night
before deadlines and long after I've gotten grumpy,
she's the one keeping our spirits up,
making us laugh with cat videos and bad jokes.
So really, we have Cindy to thank
for the amazing morale here in the office.
So Cindy, thank you for everything you've done
for us over the years, specifically,
for your mentorship, your amazing eye for detail
and the way you kept us all laughing.
We will miss you dearly, and we wish
you all the best, cheers.
So you see how there's some repetition there worked
into the introduction and the conclusion,
so that I make sure everybody in the room remembers
the key things that I want them to about Cindy.
So as you're working with the power of three
in your presentations and your meetings
remember the power of repetition.
Tell them what you're going to tell them,
then tell them, then tell them what you told them.


=== Next Steps & More Resources ===


--- Exercise: Power of 3 - Your Turn ---

-: Now it's your turn to apply the principle
of the Power of Three to your next meeting or presentation.
Take a look at the two attached handouts.
I have two versions of the Power of Three
that you can choose from.
One of them is the Power of Three
in a traditional outline format
with a space for your introduction.
Three main points, three sub-points, and a conclusion.
The other version is a mind map version.
Same content, different layout
in case you prefer a more visual layout.
Now again, remember the Power of Three
is meant to be flexible.
If you occasionally need two or four rather than three.
that's fine, but take the handout that works better for you
and now practice applying Power of Three to your content.

--- Become a Storytelling Expert ---

-: Now that you've learned how to analyze your audience
and shape your content,
it's time for the third aspect of content development,
which is storytelling.
Now, storytelling is a really hot topic
in public speaking these days, and why is that?
Well, if you think back to our core principles,
storytelling is about connection.
Storytelling is helping your audience
feel engaged in your topic,
like they can personally relate to the issue
instead of feeling detached from it.
In fact, there's some really interesting research
by cognitive psychologist Jerome Bruner
that suggests that stories
are 22 times more memorable than facts alone.
22 times.
So that means if you really want people
to remember what you have to say
long after you've left the room,
we have to figure out how to pair our data and our examples
with a few compelling stories.
So in this section, you'll learn what makes a good story
and how you can become a great storyteller,
even if right now you're feeling like storytelling
is not your jam.
So what makes a great story?
Great stories in the workplace are specific,
they're lively, and they're relevant.
Let's unpack each of those a bit.
Good stories are specific. What do I mean by that?
Well, the best way to illustrate this principle
is actually to give you an example.
I once worked with a senior marketing executive
who had had tremendous success at her company,
so much so that she had been invited
to an international conference
to help teach other marketing executives
how to duplicate her success.
And she and I were working on her keynote.
It was a fairly long talk, about one hour long.
And at one point, as we were working through her content,
she looked at me, and she said,
"You know, Jennifer, this talk is pretty boring."
And I had to admit, she was right.
Because while the success she had achieved was spectacular,
the nitty-gritty details of how she'd done it
were not super interesting.
And so we set out to make her talk more engaging.
First, I asked her, "Hey, can we use more client stories,
real-life success stories
of people who walked through your marketing process?"
And for various confidentiality reasons,
we couldn't use real client stories.
So instead, we invented a hypothetical client named Janet.
We gave her a background.
We talked about what industry Janet was from.
So now, when my client was talking through the details
of her marketing strategy,
she wasn't saying our users this and our customers this.
She was now saying, "Janet doing this, Janet doing that."
And it just transformed her presentation.
It made it so much more personal and interesting.
And when she actually went and delivered it,
she said 50 people came up to her afterwards
and told her how great it was, how engaging it was,
and they were all talking about Janet, Janet, Janet.
The point of this story is
if you're presenting complex information
or information that maybe, on the surface,
doesn't seem that exciting, you need to find your Janet.
Find a way to put a face on complex issues,
so they feel more personal and relatable to your audience.
Next, good stories are lively. What does that mean?
I want you to think about making your stories lively
by adding details and dialogue.
An example of details.
Let's say you're talking about the long hours
that your team spent holed up in the office
right before a product launch.
Instead of just telling me we were there long hours,
talk about the 35 empty pizza boxes
that got stacked up on the trash can
and the 79 empty bottles of Snapple
stacked on the window sill by the time you were done.
Help me feel like I'm there. Paint a few details.
You can also use dialogue, right,
if you're talking about what people were saying.
Don't just talk about them.
Tell me how you went running to your boss and said,
"Oh my gosh, you'll never believe what just happened!"
The details and dialogue are what help people
feel like they're there in the story with you.
That's gonna hook them, engage them.
Finally, great stories are relevant.
This means that the point of your story
needs to be crystal clear to you
and crystal clear to your audience.
Don't leave them guessing.
Use really clear language like, the point of this story is,
or the reason I'm telling you this story is.
Make it easy. Make it accessible.
Help people understand what your story's about.
So when you're using stories in the workplace,
when you're connecting with your audience,
keep them specific, keep them lively,
and keep them relevant.

--- Exercise: Build Your Story Bank ---

Educator: Some of you may be watching this video
thinking, I can't possibly tell stories in the workplace.
I'm not a storyteller.
And if you're thinking that,
then I have good news for you.
Storytelling, it's a learnable skill
just like any other aspect of public speaking.
You can learn to be a good storyteller with practice.
But, good storytelling,
it doesn't happen by accident.
You have to plan for it.
And here's how you do that.
I want you to start building what I call a story bank.
And go ahead now take a look at the exercise attached
to this class to see what a story bank looks like.
A story bank is a collection
of stories that you're going to use again and again,
in the course of your work life,
to get your points across.
One of the most common types of stories in a story bank
it's your client's success stories
that you can share with potential new clients
in order to show the impact that your products
or services can have.
Now, when you're collecting stories in your story bank
you're gonna look at four aspects of the story.
First, what's a one or two sentence summary of the story?
Second, how does the story make people feel
so that again you can align the emotions of this story
with the overall emotions you're trying to spark
in your presentation.
Next, what's the point of this story?
Again, remember, the point always needs
to be crystal clear to you
so you can make it crystal clear to your audience.
And finally,
what are one or two details that you're going
to use to bring this story to life?
Remember, think details and dialogue.
Now, clients often ask me,
Well where do I find stories for my story bank?
And there are three great places to look.
One, you can look to your own life.
This is especially true for CEOs and company founders
who often talk about the personal experiences
that inspired them to create their product
or start their company.
You can also, as I mentioned,
look to clients and customer stories,
people who've used your product
and services and benefited from them.
Tell their stories.
You can also look to other people's experiences
to tell your stories.
For example, I once worked with a senior executive
at a tech company here in Silicon Valley,
who wanted to make a point to his team about
the value of teamwork.
And he did it by sharing a story about cliff diving
of all things.
He told a story about a diver that jumps a hundred feet
off a cliff and plummets into the ocean.
And maybe at the surface you think
that this is a solo endeavor.
Well, it turns out there's actually a big team
of people operating behind the scenes
to make cliff dives possible.
And so the point of his story was
that whether you're on the front lines
or whether you're working behind the scenes
your work matters.
So you can look for stories in your own life,
in the lives of clients and customers,
and in the lives of third parties
as you start to build your story bank.
Now, the last piece of becoming a storyteller,
and I'm guessing you know what I'm going to say,
is you have to practice out loud.
Thinking through your stories in your head
is like thinking about going to the gym
it doesn't get you anywhere.
You actually have to open your mouth
and practice the story out loud
with your friends, with your colleagues,
on your own, so that when you tell the story for real
you're familiar with how it goes.
It's a story you know by heart.
So remember, storytelling is learnable
and it takes practice.
So go out now,
start collecting stories for your story bank
so you can practice and become a more effective,
powerful storyteller.

--- Exercise: Know Your Speaking Baseline ---

-: At this point in the course,
we're moving from content development to delivery skills.
Another way to think about that is
we're moving from what you say to how you say it.
The core principle we're focused on right now is confidence.
And my goal here is to help you get your body working
for you rather than against you
when you're in front of the room.
Now, to do that, you need to have a clear sense
of what you're doing with your body
and your voice right now.
We're going to do an exercise to help you know
your speaking baseline,
to get a sense of where you are right now as a speaker,
so you can figure out where you wanna go.
So take a look at the attached PDF
to get a sense of how this works.
And as a logistical note for this exercise,
you'll need about five minutes of privacy
maybe in your office or a conference room.
And you'll also need some sort of recording device,
a smartphone, a laptop, a tablet
that you can use to take a brief video of yourself.
So for this exercise, your goal is to capture yourself
on video for about 60 to 90 seconds.
What you're going to say is up to you.
There are a few prompts on the handout to get you started.
You can talk about yourself, your role, your company.
The content isn't really critical here.
What you'll be paying attention to in the video
is your delivery skills,
what's happening with your verbal and nonverbal delivery.
So before you start the exercise,
I want you to remind yourself what two adjectives
you'd like people to use to describe you as a speaker.
That'll help you figure out what your goal is
as a speaker as you're moving into the exercise.
Next, I want you to take 60 to 90 seconds
of video of yourself speaking.
And it's great to be standing up for this exercise
rather than sitting down, so you can get a sense
of what your whole body's doing as you move.
Next, I want you to watch your video three times,
once with your eyes closed,
so you're focused only on your voice.
Second, with your ears plugged,
so you're focused just on what you're seeing.
And third, I want you to watch the video all together,
sound and visuals so you can get the whole picture.
Next, use the rubric on the handout
to evaluate how well your body
and your voice are working for you right now as a speaker.
And I really encourage you at this point in the process
to watch yourself with what I call gentle eyes.
Yes, you're looking for things you wanna work on,
but I also want you to be looking for the things
that are working for you.
It can be really easy when you're watching yourself
on video to miss all the good things
and only see the bad things.
So make sure you watch for both your strengths
as well as your areas for growth.
Finally, at the end of the handout,
you'll notice that there's a place to identify
what your next step goal is
as you're working on your delivery skills.
And I really do want you to pick just one thing.
Now, of course, you can work on multiple aspects
of your delivery, but what I found over the years
is that it's most effective to tackle one change
to your delivery at a time.
So at the end of this exercise,
you'll figure out what your next step goal is
on your journey to becoming a more effective speaker.

--- How to Master Eye Contact ---

Host: The first delivery skill,
that we'll talk about in this section of the course,
is eye contact.
Now, why is eye contact so incredibly important,
to public speakers?
Well, think about our core principles,
connection, credibility, and confidence.
Eye contact plays into all three of these.
You can't connect with your audience,
unless you're looking them in the eye,
and at least in the North American,
and Western business cultures,
eye contact is also a symbol of credibility and trust.
Think about expressions we have in English,
like, I don't know if I can trust him,
he wouldn't look me in the eye.
So, we have to be looking people in the eye,
when we're speaking to them,
in order for them to really believe us,
and finally, confidence.
If you know your stuff,
but you're looking all around the room,
you're going to look and feel nervous.
So, we have to figure out,
how to make consistent, confident eye contact,
with the audience.
Now, here's what you don't wanna do.
So, often when I'm watching a speaker who's nervous,
here's what happens with eye contact.
It goes (exclaims indistinctly)
and sprays around the room like the sprinkler.
You don't want a sprinkler,
nor do you wanna be looking over people's heads,
at the back wall which is a trick,
that sometimes people like to try.
The goal with eye contact is three to five seconds,
of eye contact per person,
and that's roughly the length of a thought.
Now, why is this so valuable?
Well, when you're landing with somebody for several seconds,
all of a sudden that person feels more engaged,
and connected with you as a speaker.
Even though you are the one doing most of the talking,
they feel like part of the conversation.
Not only that, but this type of eye contact,
can actually make you feel less nervous,
and I know that sounds strange and really counterintuitive,
but here's how it works.
Often when we're staring at a big group of people,
they can feel like this amorphous, scary mass,
but then when we start looking people in the eye,
one at a time, it's less scary,
because suddenly we're not speaking to a group,
we're just having a series of one-on-one conversations,
and that feels more relaxing.
Now, clients often ask,
"But what if I'm speaking in front of a thousand people,
on a big stage with bright lights?
I can't possibly make eye contact with everyone.
Sometimes I can't even see their eyes."
Well, here's how eye contact translates,
to big auditoriums and large audiences.
You still wanna be thinking about making eye contact,
but in this case,
rather than looking for specific sets of eyes,
you're making eye contact, so to speak,
with different quadrants of the room.
So, let's say you're in a big auditorium,
with both a ground level and a mezzanine.
I want you to mentally trace a big star,
over the audience in your mind,
and then you're gonna make eye contact,
with each point of the star,
making sure to reach up into the mezzanine,
back into the corners,
as well as to the people right in front of you,
and when you do this, 20 or 30 people will feel,
like you've made eye contact with them,
even if you're being blinded by bright lights,
and you can't actually see people.
So, remember, don't do the sprinkler,
don't look at the wall,
make good confident eye contact for three to five seconds,
and you will become a much more powerful,
and effective speaker.

--- What to Do With Your Hands ---

-: One of the most common questions I get from clients is,
"What do I do with my hands?"
So in this lesson, we'll talk about
how to gesture effectively, and where to put your hands
when you're not using them.
So let's start with when you are gesturing.
A good rule of thumb for gestures is you wanna keep
your gestures above the waist and beyond your shoulders.
I like to think about this as keeping air under your wings.
Too often, you'll see speakers who are moving
as though there's velcro attached to their elbows.
Then you end up gesturing in what I call the penalty box,
you wanna break free of the penalty box.
And the reason this is problematic
is because for bigger audiences and bigger ideas,
you need to be using bigger gestures.
So think about this, if I'm speaking to a colleague
one on one, and I'm telling her,
"Wow, we had tremendous growth this quarter,"
this size of gesture is probably okay.
But if I stand up in front of 50 people on my team
and I tell them, "We had tremendous growth this quarter."
No we didn't. Look at it, it's too small.
We need to talk about tremendous growth this quarter,
and have a really nice wide wingspan.
So the bigger the room, the bigger the audience,
remember, the bigger your gestures need to be.
Now, what do you do with your hands
when you're not using them?
Well, one easy place you can put them
is relaxed at your sides.
This position looks open, confident, it looks great.
The problem is for many speakers, it actually feels
really uncomfortable to leave your hands down here.
Your hands often instantly want something to do and start
reaching for a pen or looking for keys to jingle.
Now, if you aren't comfortable leaving your hands
at your sides like this, try clasping them
loosely at your waist, belly button level.
Either in what I call the finger tent,
the loose clasp, or the cupped fist.
The thing that all three of these positions have in common
is they're loose, they're open.
You wanna watch out for anything tight
that's gonna shrug your shoulders closed.
So for example, avoid the fig leaf,
avoid the prisoner, and avoid ice cold.
Don't try hand washing, it's a common problem
when people have their hands at their belly level.
Think loose, think open, avoid fidgeting.
Make sure you're not twisting any rings
or twisting any bracelets or watches.
Don't reach into your pockets and jingle your keys,
and definitely don't hold and click a pen.
Remember, keep it loose, keep it open, keep it confident.
And when you're gesturing,
let there be air under your wings.

--- Exercise: Stand Like a Speaker ---

-: Imagine this, you're on your way to work,
you're a little extra tired
so you decide to stop at Starbucks for some caffeine.
You get there and you realize
50 other people had the same idea,
and now you're waiting in a long line.
If you're in the position to do so, right now,
I'd like you to stand up and show me
with your body how you'd wait in line at Starbucks.
Chances are you did a couple of things.
You probably shifted your weight to one side,
which is more comfortable and casual.
Maybe your shoulders fell forward.
And let's be honest, we probably all took out our phones.
Now, this is a perfectly fine way
to wait in line at Starbucks,
but the problem is too many people bring Starbucks stance
with them into their presentations.
We need to shift Starbucks stance
and turn it into speaker stance.
And here's how you do that.
First, balance your weight.
Make sure your feet are hips distance apart
so you have a solid foundation to work from.
Next, try shrugging your shoulders up
and letting them fall comfortably down your back.
Now you have a straight but not rigid posture.
And of course, put away your phone.
Now you're in a comfortable, confident position,
ready to give a great presentation.
Now, a few other notes on postures to avoid.
If you're standing off balance on one hip,
usually that hip will get tired,
so you'll end up shifting your weight
and doing what I call the cha-cha.
And you wanna save the cha-cha for the dance floor.
Also, watch out for a crossed leg posture.
I call this the I have to go to the bathroom stance,
and it's not a good one.
So again, remember, find your speaker stance,
feet hips distance apart, shoulders back and down,
speaker stance.
Now, this may not be a place
that your body's used to inhabiting,
so you need to practice it, and guess what?
You know where you practice speaker stance?
At Starbucks or at the grocery store or the bank
or anywhere else you're waiting in line.
You wanna practice this posture
just like you practice any other aspect of your presentation
so that when you need it, you're gonna be able to stand up
in front of a room with confidence.

--- Like, You Need to Get Rid of, Um, Filler Words ---

-: Like, um, you know, so like we're gonna get started now.
Let's hope your last presentation didn't start like that.
But we've all fallen victim to filler words in the past.
Um, like, so, you know, the words that creep in
when we're nervous or we're not sure what we wanna say.
So in this lesson, we'll look at why we tend to use
filler words, and more importantly,
how you can get rid of them.
Filler words usually show up for three reasons.
One, we're nervous.
Two, we're not sure what we wanna say, or three,
we're speaking so quickly that our mouths have gotten ahead
of our minds and we're trying to fill time
as we remember what comes next.
Or maybe some combination of all three.
Now, I wish I could say I had some quick
and easy fix for filler words, but they are one of
the hardest parts of your delivery to change.
The good news is it is possible to get rid of them
with conscious practice.
Here's how you do it.
First, start getting aware of when you use fillers.
Some people use them all the time,
but other people use them only in, let's say,
high stakes meetings
or situations where they're especially nervous.
So your job is to get really aware
of every time you tend to use a filler word,
start to notice that urge, that instinct.
Second, every time you feel the urge to use a filler word,
I want you to pause and be silent instead
and this is a hard change to make
but the more you practice it deliberately, it is possible.
Now, when we're speaking,
we tend to think silence is the enemy,
that when we are the speaker,
we have to be making sound every second.
But in reality, silence isn't your enemy, it's your friend.
You need occasional pauses in your speech
to remind yourself what you wanna say,
and your audience also needs those pauses to digest
the new material you're sharing with them.
So when you feel the urge to, uh or um, or like or so,
I want you to stop, pause,
check your notes if you need to, and then continue
without fillers and with a lot more confidence.

--- How to Sound Natural ---

Instructor: Speakers often ask me,
"How can I sound more natural
and conversational when I speak?".
And, when we're thinking about sounding natural,
what we're really aiming for is vocal variety.
If you were to listen in on yourself
when you're talking to a friend
or talking to a colleague over lunch,
chances are there'd be peaks and valleys to your voice.
Sometimes you're louder, sometimes you're softer,
sometimes you're faster, sometimes you're slower.
And if we were to chart your voice, it would look like this.
The problem is sometimes when we're presenting
and we're nervous, our voice tends to flat line.
We lose all those beautiful peaks and valleys.
And you end up sounding like the world's worst
history teacher, played by Ben Stein,
in the classic eighties movie "Ferris Bueller's Day Off".
If you have not seen this film,
please check out the link
that I've included for you with this lesson.
You'll see how flat lined
and how monotone this history teacher is.
He literally puts his students to sleep,
which is not what you wanna do with your audience.
Unfortunately though, when people get nervous,
sometimes they try to memorize their material
and they end up sounding robotic, monotone, flat lined.
So, how do we bring those conversational peaks
and valleys to our voice when we're presenting?
The best way to do this is to make sure you're speaking
from talking points rather than a script.
Use keywords and phrases to remind yourself
what you wanna say
rather than writing out your talk word for word.
Then when you're practicing,
and remember you wanna be practicing out loud.
You can speak more conversationally each time you run
through your talk, using your talking points,
it'll come out a little bit differently.
And that's actually great.
You're creating 50 right ways to do your talk
rather than sticking yourself to that one scripted way.
So, if you wanna sound natural and conversational,
remember, forget the script.
Practice conversationally.
Practice out loud.

--- Pace Yourself ---

-: As a speaker, I've been told my entire life
that I talk too fast.
Maybe you have too.
It's one of the most common issues I work on with my clients
is slowing down the pace.
So in this lesson, we'll look at how you can control
your pace so that you're clearer and more compelling
and confident when you're in front of the room.
Now, when it comes to pace, one of the best ways
to slow yourself down is to think about pausing
in between ideas.
So think about coming to the end of a sentence
or coming to the end of a concept.
Instead of rattling straight into the next one,
you wanna stop, take a breath,
let your speech be punctuated by silence.
And what this does is it gives your audience
a chance to digest what you're saying
and it also gives you a chance to reset,
slow yourself down, and start again.
The second way to slow down your pace
is to use what I call vocal italics.
And this is where you take key phrases in your talk,
places where you might otherwise speed up,
and use them as signals to slow yourself down.
So let's say you're talking about
your customer engagement strategy
and that's a phrase you're gonna be saying often
over the course of your presentation.
It might be tempting to start talking about
your customer engagement strategy,
your customer engagement strategy.
Instead, I want you to picture that phrase in bold italics.
And when you see those bold italics, you're gonna slow down.
So instead, you'll be talking about
your customer engagement strategy.
It's a chance for you to slow down rather than speed up.
Finally, this is where recording yourself
is really important because what I've learned
over a lifetime of speaking too quickly
is that my internal self-calibration, it's broken.
What sounds like a good pace to me in my head
is actually way too fast for most people.
And so it's only by recording myself on audio and video
that I get a reality check and figure out how to slow down
to a pace that works for my audience.
So try recording yourself on audio or video
so that you can get a similar reality check
as you are working on pace.

--- Exercise: Speak Like a Pro ---

-: Now that you've learned about best practices
for delivery skills, it's time to try it
making one small change to your delivery.
Go back to your speaking baseline exercise
and figure out what was that next step goal
you set for yourself.
Now it's time to give it a try.
So again, find five minutes where you can be alone,
bring a recording device, and I want you to take
a second video of yourself, 60 to 90 seconds.
You can use the same topic that you spoke about before
talking about yourself, your role or your company.
Again, the content here, is not the primary focus.
Instead, the focus of this video is getting to see yourself
making one small change to your delivery.
And what I am hoping you'll see when you watch
your second video,
is the power that one small change can make.
Often, a small change makes a huge difference
in how confident you look as a speaker.
So, make your one small change and take a look.
What's working? What do you still want to work on?
Maybe you use this chance to set your next speaking goal.
Remember that the most effective way to change
your delivery skills, is one step at a time.

--- How to PREPare for the Unexpected ---

-: At this point in the class, you've learned how to shape
your content and how to use your body
and your voice to your best advantage.
So now it's time to learn how to think
and speak on your feet.
So much of the communication that we do over the course
of the workday is unplanned.
One of my clients likes to call this the hallway ambush,
which is when your boss catches you in the hallway
and asks for an impromptu status update.
When you think about our core principles,
this is where both confidence
and credibility come into play,
because I want you to be able to stay calm
and collected in those unplanned moments
and I also want you to be able to give clear,
substantive answers.
So in this section of the course, you'll learn a variety
of frameworks for shaping your thoughts
when you're speaking on the fly,
so that you're not reinventing the wheel every time
you open your mouth and you can feel more comfortable
and confident with what you have to say.
Let's start with my favorite impromptu speaking framework,
which is PREP.
PREP stands for point, reason, example, point
and the point you start with is the same as the point
you end with.
So let me demonstrate it
and then I'll explain a little bit more
about each of the pieces.
If you were to ask me, what's the most important
delivery skill that a public speaker needs to master?
Here's how I would answer that question using PREP.
I'd say of all of the skills that you can work on
with your body and your voice,
eye contact is the most critical
because it's really where both confidence, connection
and credibility come into play.
Too often I see nervous speakers fall into the trap
of the sprinkler, spraying their eyes around the room,
when instead what you wanna do is land your eyes
with different people in the room for three to five seconds
or the length of a thought.
So when you're working on developing your skills
as a public speaker,
make sure you pay attention to eye contact,
because it's a critical part of conveying your confidence
and your effectiveness as a speaker.
So that's PREP.
You'll notice that PREP forces you to front load
your point and your reason.
You can't talk through all the background
and the context and the details before coming to your point.
You wanna put the point up front
so that people are more likely to wanna listen
to what you have to say.
Once you've done your point and your reason,
E comes into play, example, and you can also
think about E as elaboration or explanation.
Sometimes you'll do point, reason, example
in just a few sentences if you're giving a simple answer.
In which case it'll probably feel too early to repeat
your point at the end and if that's the case,
trust your gut on a short answer
you can leave that final point to the side
and just do point, reason, example.
But for a longer answer like I gave,
you'll wanna revisit your point at the end.
It's like tying the bow on a package
and putting your answer into a cohesive whole.
So when you're forming your thoughts on the fly, remember,
try using PREP, point, reason, example, point.

--- Avoid These PREP Pitfalls ---

-: When it comes
to using PREP as a framework, there are three pitfalls
I want you to watch out for.
One, don't forget a reason.
Sometimes I hear speakers jump straight
from point to example, skipping over the reason step.
You'll know you're using a reason
if you hear the word because,
and that reason is a really important part
of establishing credibility because it shows
that you've thought things through.
Second thing to avoid is rambling on that final point.
Remember, that final P is for point,
you're repeating it one time, not three times or four times.
Sometimes people get stuck in an infinite loop
and they don't know how to close their answer.
So say your point again once, and then stop talking.
That's what's great about PREP,
it shows you where to start
and it also shows you where to stop.
Finally, don't give up on PREP too soon.
I once worked with a client who was a golfer
and he gave me this analogy.
He said, "When you're golfing, you have your own way
of playing, and you have a baseline going."
And all of a sudden, some sort of expert
or coach comes along and tweaks your grip, and suddenly,
instead of getting better, your performance dips
and it feels more awkward for a while.
The same is true for something like PREP.
You're going along answering questions in your own way,
and then I come along and teach you PREP.
The first few times you try it,
your performance might feel more awkward.
Don't give up.
I call this part the muddy middle.
This is when you're internalizing a new habit
and learning a new skill.
And what you wanna do
is follow things through the muddy middle up
to the more effective new normal.
That's when you've internalized PREP
and you're naturally answering questions in that framework
without having to think through the acronym every time.
So remember, include your reason,
don't ramble at the ending, and by all means,
push through the muddy middle
so that you find your more effective new normal with PREP.

--- 3 Other Ways to Frame Your thoughts Under Pressure ---

-: When it comes to impromptu speaking,
it's nice to have a variety of tools in your toolbox
for shaping your thoughts.
So now that you've learned prep,
I wanna teach you three other frameworks that you can try
for structuring your ideas.
The first one, it's pretty similar to prep,
it's P-E-R, it stands for points, example, relevance.
Here's how that might sound.
Let's say you ask me,
what's one of the most common mistakes
I see people make as they prepare for a presentation.
If I were gonna give a point, example, relevance, answer,
I would say, one of the most common mistakes I see
is to see people script their talks word for word.
Often I see people do this before
really big high stakes talks like keynotes
or presenting at a conference.
And the problem is, is that people think
that having a script will make them less nervous
but it often makes you more nervous,
because suddenly with the script
you've created one right way to do it
and a thousand wrong ways to do it.
So free yourself from the script.
Use talking points instead,
practice from them conversationally
so that you can be more responsive,
more spontaneous and more conversational
when you're speaking in front of a group.
That's point, example, relevance.
Another technique that you can try is called
what, so what, now what.
And you might use this,
let's say when you're presenting a new product to your team
and asking for funding.
In the what section you might talk about,
hey here's this cool new product we're developing
and all of its amazing benefits,
in the so what section,
you might explain to your bosses,
hey look, nobody else in our market is doing it yet,
so we have a chance to really capture
a new section of the market
if we can get this product out quickly.
And in the now what section, you might say,
hey, that's way I need you to fund
three more head count for my team
so we can actually get this product out in time.
That's what, so what, now what.
The last framework you can try is past, present, and future.
This can be really great for things like status updates.
Last quarter, our team was focused on product A,
this quarter we're prototyping product B,
and next quarter we'll start looking at product C,
past, present, future.
So just like with prep,
it's gonna take a little bit of time,
remember the muddy middle,
it's gonna take some time
to incorporate these new strategies.
So follow it through, keep on practicing
until these tools are again part of your
new, more, effective, normal.

--- Exercise: Your Turn to Practice Impromptu Speaking ---

-: When it comes to getting better at impromptu speaking,
again, as you've heard me say before, the key is practice.
So, attached to this lesson is a list
of questions that you can use to be practicing all of the
frameworks that you learned in this section.
Even better though, would be if you can make a list
of the questions that you're going to need to answer
at your next presentation or meeting.
Maybe you take the ones that you did
in the audience analysis section and you use them here.
Either way, whether you're using my list or yours,
I want you to find a few minutes each day
to start practicing your impromptu speaking frameworks.
In fact, the list I'm sharing with you
originally came from a client who asked me to give him
so that every morning at breakfast he
could do one round of prep practice with his wife,
So, for your next presentation,
if you wanna be more comfortable
and confident answering questions
and speaking off the cuff, find a time ever day
to practice these frameworks.

--- Feel the Fear and Do It Anyway ---

-: Because I teach public speaking, people often assume,
oh, you must have always loved being in front of a crowd.
And actually the opposite is true.
I am a lifelong introvert,
and I used to struggle with really intense speech anxiety.
For almost 20 years.
I was deathly afraid of public speaking
to the point that I used to throw up
before big presentations.
And the reason I'm telling you this story is
because I want you to know that nerves are normal.
I love public speaking now, but I haven't always.
And so, I know what it's like to be silenced by fear,
and I also know how powerful
and transformative it is to break through that fear,
and that's what I wanna help you do.
If you're nervous about public speaking, you are not alone.
In 2014, Chapman University
in Southern California did a survey of American fears
and phobias, and do you know it was at the top of the list
the most common phobia for Americans?
You guessed it, public speaking.
And so in this section of the course,
you'll learn my most powerful
and effective strategies for managing your nerves.
I'll teach you what has worked for me as well as
for thousands of my clients, so that you can reduce stress
and manage your nerves when the pressure's on.

--- Exercise: Calm Your Body with 4-Square Breathing ---

-: One of the most powerful tools I know
for managing anxiety is a tool called Four Square Breathing.
And so, in this section, I'll teach you the exercise,
and I'll also show you how you can use it even
in the middle of meetings and presentations
when you feel your nerves start to bubble up.
But first, we'll do what I call the the full version
of the exercise, a version that you wouldn't really do
during a presentation because it involves closing your eyes
and putting your hand on your belly.
So, this is the version you'll do before a presentation.
When you're preparing, when you're in your office
or at home, thinking about your presentation.
Let's go ahead and do it together now.
First, I want you to start
by getting comfortable in your chair.
Find a seated position that's comfortable,
not tense or rigid.
Put your feet flat on the floor, shoulders back,
let your posture be straight next.
If you're comfortable with it, I invite you
to close your eyes to free yourself from distractions.
And now, I just want you to tune into your breathing.
No need to change your breath or do anything different.
Just notice how you're breathing right now.
Notice where the breath enters your body
and notice how it leaves the body.
Now, I'd like you to take one hand,
and find the place where your ribs meet.
Take your other hand, find your belly button,
and then, rest a hand gently in between those two places.
Now, as you inhale, see if you can feel the air
inflating the balloon behind your hand.
This is your diaphragm,
and you wanna feel it inflate as you inhale.
Deflate as you exhale.
Inhale, inflate the balloon.
Exhale, deflate the balloon.
Take a few deep belly breaths
in this style on your own time.
Next, we're going to start the part
of this exercise called four square breathing.
And there are four steps to the breath.
You're going to inhale for a slow count of four.
Hold for a slow count of four.
Exhale for a slow count of four.
Hold for a slow count of four.
And if you like, with each stage of the exercise,
you can mentally visualize yourself tracing the four sides
of a square.
So, inhale, two, three, four.
Hold, two, three, four.
Exhale, two, three, four.
Hold, two, three, four.
Inhale, two, three, four.
Hold, two, three, four.
Exhale, two, three, four.
Hold, two, three, four.
Continue with this four square breathing pattern
at your own pace.
If you find that the mental act
of tracing the square is distracting,
just let it go and focus on the counts of four.
At the end of your next exhale cycle,
I invite you to gently wiggle your fingers and toes,
become aware of your body, blink your eyes open,
and come back to the room.
Notice how your body's feeling now.
Hopefully you're feeling more centered
and calm like you're in control,
and this is a wonderful way to manage your anxiety.
Anytime you're starting to feel nervous
about the presentation.
Now, as I mentioned at the start,
you're obviously not gonna stop
in the middle of a presentation
and do this exercise.
However, you can with your eyes open
and your hands natural still take a nice deep belly breath.
So, if you're in the middle
of your speech and you get nervous to stop, inhale, exhale.
It'll feel like it takes way too long.
But in reality, that breath is just a second.
And remember, your audience benefits from that pause too
because they're digesting what you're saying
while you're catching your breath.
So, when you're preparing for your presentation,
you can do the full version of this exercise.
And when you're in your meetings or your presentations,
remember the power of that deep belly breath.
If you'd like, you can use the audio file attached
to this lesson to help you through
the exercise as you're practicing.

--- Exercise: Name Your Anxiety ---

-: Now we'll look at one of the more creative
anxiety management strategies I know of,
and it's called, name it.
What I've discovered about fear over the years,
as fear is often the most powerful when it's vague,
it feels like this uncontrollable fog
or a tsunami wave that just engulf us.
And so the goal of this name it exercise
is to help us detach and separate from the fear
and take back some of the control
by taking away fear's power.
The way you do that is by visualizing your fear
as an entity that's separate from you.
When I first did this exercise, I visualized my anxiety
as a six-year-old boy named Pete.
He's a little kid, I like to give him a lollipop.
I usually invite him to sit in the chair in the corner
and he swings his feet because they're not even long enough
to touch the ground.
And so what you do in this exercise,
you visualize your anxiety, somebody separate from you,
and then you can talk to that person.
So I talk to Pete, he's usually saying all kinds
of worried things like, "Oh no, what if you mess up?"
"What if they don't like you? What if you sound stupid?"
And so I look at Pete and I say,
"Hey Pete, I see you, I hear you."
"I get that you're coming from a good place."
"You're just looking out for me and trying to keep me safe."
"But here's the thing, I'm the grownup in the room
and I have work to do, I have a presentation to give."
"So I want you to sit there in the corner,
eat your lollipop, and I'm gonna go run the show."
"I'm gonna go lead my meeting."
So now I'd like you to give it a try.
Without trying too hard or thinking too hard about it,
I'd like you to visualize your anxiety
as something separate from you.
Think about it, is it a younger person,
an older person, male, female?
What's that person's name?
Where are you gonna ask him or her to be?
Are you gonna invite them into the room with you,
ask them to sit out in the hallway?
Most importantly, what do you wanna say
to your anxiety right now?
Maybe it's something similar to what I said to Pete,
something along the lines of, hey, I see you, I hear you,
but I'm in control now, I'm gonna go run the show.
So the next time you feel that anxiety fog
or that anxiety tidal wave coming, remember,
stop, name it, and take back that control for yourself.

--- How to Get Pumped Before Your Next Presentation ---

-: Think about what happens in your body
when you get nervous.
Maybe your throat goes dry,
your heart starts to pound, your hands start to sweat.
Now, think about what happens in your body
when you get excited.
Maybe your throat goes dry, your heart starts to pound,
your palms start to sweat.
It's interesting that what happens in our body
when we're nervous and when we're excited,
it's actually the same thing,
we just think about those symptoms differently.
So the key to this lesson
is to figure out how do we flip your nerves into excitement
so you can feel more confident?
There's actually some really interesting research here
by a Harvard Business School professor
named Alison Wood Brooks.
She did a study on performance anxiety
where she had two groups of people,
one of whom tried to calm down before a presentation
by saying things like, "I'm calm, I'm relaxed,"
and a second group that tried to get excited
about their presentation by saying,
"I get to speak, I'm so excited."
And it's the group that got excited
that performed better and experienced less anxiety
than the group that tried to calm down.
So here are three ways that you can start getting excited
before your next presentation.
First, I want you to put together a power soundtrack.
This is music that gets you super pumped,
super stoked, ready to go.
It might be rap, it might be country, pop, hip-hop,
whatever it is, put together a playlist
that's gonna help you really get excited
and feel great before your presentation.
I had a client once
who had to give a really high-stakes presentation
every Monday morning, first thing.
It was pretty rough.
And what he found most effective to manage his anxiety
was listening to his power soundtrack every morning
on his walk to work.
I had another client who loved her power soundtrack so much
that she got her whole team in on the action.
They created a power soundtrack as a team
to listen to in their conference room
before high stakes sales calls.
So find the music that just speaks to your soul,
put it in a playlist, and make sure you use it
as you're preparing for your presentation.
Second, I want you to think about ways
to get brisk, brief exercise
in the say, half an hour leading up to your presentation.
I don't mean go to the gym and get all wild and sweaty,
but maybe try taking a five minute brisk walk
around your building or doing a jumping jack or two.
And the reason this is helpful
is it gives your nervous energy somewhere to go,
it kinda helps shake it out of your body
rather than just sitting at your desk trembling with fear
and then walking straight into the presentation.
Finally, think about reframing your mental self-talk.
Too often we're thinking about presentations like this,
"I have to go to the conference,
I have to lead that meeting."
And it's the sense of dread building up.
Instead, try saying to yourself,
"I get to give a presentation.
I'm so excited I get to speak at the conference."
I mean, sure, it probably will feel a little fake at first,
but the trick here is fake it till you make it.
If you tell yourself often enough
that you're excited about giving a presentation,
you will eventually start to believe it.
So the next time you feel your nerves creeping up on you,
remember you're not gonna avoid them,
you're gonna flip them, turn them into excitement
so you can be more confident for your next talk.

--- Exercise: Your Takeaways and Commitments ---

-: Congratulations, you've completed the class,
which means now you know each of the steps you need to take
to become a more connected, credible,
and confident public speaker.
You know how to shape your content,
how to make it meaningful and relevant for your audience.
You know how to use your body and your voice
to your best advantage
and how to think and speak on your feet
in those unplanned speaking situations.
You also know how to manage your nerves
when the pressure's on.
Now, at this point in the class
while everything is fresh in your mind,
I want you to take a look at the attached exercise
called three takeaways and three commitments.
For the three takeaways, part one,
I want you to write down the three most important things
you learned in this class
so that a month from now, three months from now,
when you're planning for a big presentation,
you can come back and remember the nuggets of wisdom
that you wanna incorporate into your life as a speaker.
Once you've got your three takeaways,
I want you to write down your three commitments to yourself.
This is where you're putting the course into action
in your own life,
by saying one thing you'll start doing,
one thing you'll stop doing,
and one thing you'll continue doing
as a result of taking this class.
Now, I think goals are much more powerful
when they're shared.
So please take a minute.
Come on udemy.com to rate the class.
And in the comments section,
share your takeaways and commitments with me.
I'd love to hear
what you found most valuable about the class.
Now, at the end of a coaching engagement or a training,
clients will often ask me,
"What's next? Where do I go from here?
How do I keep learning and growing as a speaker?"
If you loved the work you've done in this class
and you'd like to continue working with me,
I invite you to come to my website, jenniferhennings.com,
and book a call with me
so we can talk more about how one-on-one coaching
or customized team training can help you
or your team reach true mastery as a public speaker.
I've also attached a resource list to this lesson,
books you can read, videos you can watch,
speaking opportunities you can pursue in your community
to keep growing and learning as a speaker.
Because as I said, this really is a lifelong journey.
So thanks so much for making me
a part of your public speaking journey.
Again, I'd love it if you take a minute to rate the course
and tell me your takeaways and commitments.
Let me know what you found most valuable,
what you are gonna start putting into action in your life.
I wish you all the best and happy speaking.

--- Master Public Speaking with 1:1 Coaching & Team Training ---

-: If you enjoyed what you learned
in the course and you'd like to continue working with me
to truly master your public speaking skills
and to apply this new knowledge
in your highest stake speaking situations,
I invite you to visit my website, jenniferhennings.com.
You can book a free call with me to talk more
about one-on-one presentation coaching for yourself
or customized training for your team.
Clients often call me in three situations.
One, maybe they're getting ready for a big event speaking
on their own or as part of a team.
And in that situation, I can help you shape your content
and hone your delivery working
from start to finish to make that presentation fantastic.
Second, clients sometimes call me when they've been
recently promoted to a new role that involves more external
or internal presentations, and I can help you show up
and feel confident in that new situation.
Finally, sometimes clients call me
when they're having trouble getting promoted.
Public speaking is the skill that's holding them back,
and I can help you transform that situation.
So, it's your communication skills that are
moving you forward.
So again, if you'd like to do more work with me
visit jenniferhennings.com to book a free call to talk
about one-on-one coaching or customized team trainings.
I would love to help you achieve your public speaking goals.
