

=== Fundamentals: Course Introduction, QUICK WIN Videos & Best Practices ===


--- Introduction & Thank You for Joining! ---

However you want.
My name is Jimmy Lorraine and welcome to this presentation Skills Course.
Now, this course is designed to be a comprehensive blueprint.
So if you want to improve your presentation skills, whether it's getting on a stage, speaking to your
team members or maybe presenting in front of a video camera, it doesn't matter what it is, discourse
will help you.
Now, you may be wondering, why am I here?
Why am I in this nature spots?
And the reason is that rather than just making regular studio videos, I wanted to give you a sense
of adventure.
So I don't just want to give you an incredible content.
I want to give you both an incredible content.
And at the same time, this mystery, a sense of adventure, a feeling that you are coming on this journey
with me.
Because right now I'm on the La Palma Island, which is one of the Canary Islands of the coast of Africa.
It's a tremendous place.
It's absolutely stunning.
And what I want to do in my course is I want to give you this experience where you are excited, you
want to take the course and you want to complete it.
And the reason I do it is because a lot of people start courses, but they never complete them.
A lot of people like the feeling, this dopamine hit of just buying a course and then watching the first
two or three videos feeling like they are doing something.
But then very often they just drop the entire course and they stop watching the videos.
So what I want to do in my courses is I want to increase the probability that you will watch my videos
from the beginning till the end, that you will take action and implement all the strategies, all the
tools, all the techniques, all the hacks in order to better your life.
And that's why I'm here on this beautiful island.
And I'm going to show you a lot of great nature spots.
Now, over the years, I've been teaching over 270,000 people on Udemy.
Now, by the time you are watching this, hopefully this number is much higher.
But I also received over 45,005 star ratings and I feel like one of the reasons is that I never treat
my courses as finished products.
I then just film a course, release it and forget about it.
Instead, I always try to dig in and and figure out the feedback from my audience, and I always try
to pay attention to the questions that you have so I can keep improving my courses, I can keep adding
more content.
Now I'm filming this particular course, the core of this course and 2022.
So it's a really fresh course.
But at the same time I will keep adding more videos.
Now, one thing I want to mention here in the first video is that if you are watching this and if you
have some type of presentation that you have to give in the next couple of days or maybe even in a couple
of hours, then rather than trying to watch the entire course from the beginning till the end, you
may want to see the emergency video and section one.
You will find it in section one.
It's called the emergency video.
And the reason I created it is so if you have very limited time, let's say that you have to give a
presentation in the next five or 6 hours.
You can go into that video and you can get injection of motivation, confidence and also some of the
most powerful hacks that you can use right away, right before your presentation and during your presentation.
It's one of those quick wins videos that I wanted to create for you.
So if you have limited time, you can get so much value in a short period of time.
Otherwise, I recommend that you watch this course from the beginning till the end.
I'm going to tell you more about it in the Best Practices video.
But for now, I just want to say thank you so much for signing up.
I really appreciate you.
I appreciate your time and your trust in my content.
And let's get started with the second video.

--- START HERE IF YOU HAVE LITTLE TIME (optional): “EMERGENCY” Pre-Speech Strategies ---

All right.
So welcome to the emergency video that I promise you at the very beginning.
Now, this video is specifically designed for those of you who have a presentation to give in the next
couple of days.
Now, I understand that some of you don't have the time to go through the entire course right now.
Of course, you still want to do it at some point, but maybe you are given a presentation or a workshop
or you are addressing your company tomorrow or perhaps even 8 hours from now.
If that's the case, then.
What I'm doing in this video is I'm not giving you long term strategies, but I'm focusing on the things
that you can do right now before your presentation in order to take everything to the next level.
So let's get right into it.
Now, the first thing I want to talk to you about is getting yourself into the right state before the
presentation.
So let's say that you walk up today and you have to present in a few hours from now, what can you do?
And I have to kind of reframe it by saying that a lot of people, unfortunately, just wait for the
state to come to them.
They hope that at some point they're going to feel good, but rather than hoping for it, you want to
engineer a winner.
State We talk more about it and separate videos, but the first thing you want to do is you want to
focus on gratitude.
Now, when I say gratitude, some people may retort, Well, this is cheesy, but it's not.
It really works when you feel truly grateful.
It's really difficult to feel scared, and I embrace gratitude myself.
So all of the things I'm telling you about in this video are the things that I do myself before any
big presentation.
Now, the moment I embrace gratitude, the moment I think about my friends, my family members, my
health.
Now, by the way, you may you may not be fully healthy, but when you focus on the things you have
not done, the things that you don't have, you develop this tremendous feeling of gratitude.
And if you do it for a couple of minutes, rather than just listing things, you actually close your
eyes, you take deep breaths, and you actually try to be truly grateful for what you have.
Realizing that there are a lot of people out there in the world who have it way worse than you, and
they would give absolutely anything to be in your situation.
You change your state, you develop a much more powerful state.
Now, the second thing I want you to do is I want you to remind yourself of how great you already are,
because the chances are, as you are about to present, you may have this internal dialogue.
You may have that little devil whispering into your ears, Well, you're not good enough.
You won't make it happen.
Why would people even listen to you?
You don't have enough experience or knowledge.
You have to take a little voice and you have to throw it away.
You want to get rid of it, you don't want to tune into that and you have the control over it.
Right?
When we hear that negative internal dialogue, we have the control to consciously take it and throw
it away.
What you want to do instead is you want to remind yourself of how great you are.
You want to remind yourself of all of the things that, for example, used to seem impossible back in
the day, that now are just normal for you, right?
You will remind yourself of the fact that, hey, you are here, you are about the present you are presenting
because people want to listen to you because you have something to say, because you will deliver some
type of value and knowledge to people you want to focus on that.
You want to focus on the things that you are already proud of.
And it's not about being narcissistic.
Some people say, Well, I don't want to be narcissistic.
It doesn't matter.
You are not telling other people, you are telling yourself, because see, very often we forget to
remind ourselves of how great we are.
So once you combine gratitude with with this exercise, you will feel much better.
Now what do you do when you actually get to the venue?
One of the biggest mistakes people make, and I talk about it a bit deeper in other videos, is that
they get to the venue and they just sit in the corner and that's it.
They don't do anything.
They wait for their turn to present.
But when that happens, when you get on a stage, you feel like jumping into cold water.
And if you've ever jumped into cold water, you know how it feels.
You get in and you have this response.
You feel freezing cold, you may be shaking, you feel freezing, you just feel this shock.
And this is the last thing you want to have when you get on any type of stage or when you're presenting
in front of people at a team gathering, that's the last thing you want to have.
You want to make sure that you don't feel cold when you jump into that water.
How do you do it?
Well, you push your comfort zone before your presentation.
So typically what happens is when people get on a stage or present in front of others, they get from
this level of discomfort to this level of discomfort, the jump is just too big.
You want to make sure that you build up steps all the way to this.
How do you do it?
You push your comfort zone.
How can you do it?
Well, for example, you can make an Instagram live or Facebook live and you can address your friends
and your followers.
For a lot of people, that seems uncomfortable.
Another thing that you can do is you can address strangers as you are getting to the venue.
You can approach a group of strangers and you can ask them for their opinion on something.
There are many different ways to do it, but you know yourself.
So you know what triggers, you know what pushes your comfort zone.
And you want to do that.
You want to do those little pushes leading up to your presentation now.
Now, once you're are in the venue again rather than sitting in.
Or waiting for your turn to present.
So then you get in front of all of those people and feel like the deer in the headlights, right?
All of those eyeballs looking at you.
What you want to do is you want to get yourself more comfortable with interacting with people.
So you want to talk to them now.
Obviously, every situation is different.
If you present on a on a big stage at a conference, that's going to be different to you presenting
in front of your team members.
But whatever the situation is, you want to push yourself, you really want to push yourself.
I know it's not easy, but push yourself to go out there and to talk to those people and you can do
it in a variety of ways.
If you are at a conference where you don't know the people, you can let you walk up to strangers and
tell them, Hey, my name is Jimmy Naran.
Just just want to say hi.
I'm going to be presenting in the next 40 minutes, wondering what brings you here, right?
If somebody is already sitting in a room waiting for your presentation, you can introduce yourself.
Hey, what's going on?
What's your name?
Awesome.
You know, I'm very happy you came to my presentation.
What are you trying to get out of it?
Right, whatever it is, these are random examples.
But if you initiate those little conversations, little interactions with people, you will get yourself
into the talkative state and a more social state.
So what's going to happen is you will be pushing your comfort zone bit by bit.
You can even address groups of people.
For example, recently I was presenting in Dubai at Sharjah Entrepreneurship Festival.
So what I did was right before the presentation, I saw people sitting there right maybe ten, 15 minutes
before groups of people were already gathering in the room.
So rather than just standing in the corner, I literally walked in there and I addressed separate clusters
of people.
I say, Hey, what's going on, everyone?
My name is Jimmy.
I'm just I just want to say I'm very happy that you came here.
How is everybody doing?
And they are smiling.
Why are they smiling?
Because no other speaker is doing this right.
I'm showing them that I care about them.
I have I have a bit of interactions and then I go to another group.
Hey, what's going on?
Just want to say hi.
Thank you so much for coming in early.
I appreciate it.
Blah, blah, blah.
And I just talked to a bunch of people.
Then I went outside of the room and I talked to strangers and I told them, Listen, in case you are
not busy, I think you'll really enjoy the presentation I'm about to deliver.
The topic is X, Y and Z.
We are starting in 10 minutes and I brought a lot of people in and guess what?
I got myself into a tremendous, tremendous winner state, winner state.
Right.
I felt very social.
I felt on fire.
I had all of those interactions.
And now because I had all of those interactions with people, I'm no longer a stranger to them and they
are no longer strangers to me.
So when I got on that stage, when I opened up, I could see a lot of smiley faces because now we have
the connection, right?
They feel like, wow, I feel like I know this guy a little bit better.
He actually came up to me.
We had a little interaction, so they feel better.
And I also feel better because I have a bunch of friendly faces you can replicate.
It's not not you can you should replicate it.
You should replicate it.
And again, I don't know what your exact situation is, but you can do it to some extent.
Let's talk about a couple of other things.
So before you get on a stage on that same day, you want to make sure that you exercise.
Now, I'm not talking about running running a half marathon or or doing a heavy squats.
I'm not talking about that.
I'm talking about any type of physical exercise that will get you out of your head and into your body.
It could be a nice jog.
It could be a yoga session.
It could be anything.
But what you want to do is you want to get yourself out of your head, into your body.
That's one of the best relaxation techniques that you can actually use.
Also, what's going to happen is when we are about to present in front of other people, there's a lot
of adrenaline flowing through our veins.
And what happens is that when you get on that stage, if you are so adrenalized, you are more likely
to get stressed on to get anxious.
So what you want to do is you want to get rid of all of that excess adrenaline.
One of the best ways to do it is to actually do some type of physical exercise.
If you've ever run for more than a couple of miles, you know that you get something called the runner's
high.
Right after 15, 20, 25 minutes of running, you just start feeling amazing.
And this effect is even bigger after you finish your run.
You ever had that right?
You or maybe you did something else.
Maybe you went swimming or went on a bicycle.
But after you perform that physical exercise for usually an hour to sometimes 3 hours, you just feel
amazing.
You feel incredibly have all this incredible energy and you feel like you can do anything.
That's the runner's high.
Well, you want to engineer that before your presentation.
So when I present, I'd like to do some type of exercise at least a few hours before now.
Finally, I recommend that you don't drink too much coffee.
Ideally, you want to skip coffee before your presentation.
And this may sound counterintuitive.
A lot of people say, well, drink some coffee, you will get some energy.
Sure, you'll get some energy, but you will also feel agitated.
You may feel stressed out.
You may feel anxious.
You know the feeling when you drink too much coffee, right?
And when you're about to present, you already adrenalized.
You're already in the zone.
You're already, like, a bit anxious if you add some caffeine into the equation.
It may not end up well.
So myself, I love coffee.
I don't drink too much of it, but I typically drink coffee every day.
Before I present.
I drink very little coffee.
I literally drink one third of an Americano very slowly.
I'm very careful with it because I notice whenever I drink too much coffee, I'm a bit agitated.
I'm just, you know, it's like the squirrel effect, like, wow, what happened?
Right.
You are very reactive.
And what you want to do is before we get on the stage, you want to be in this Zen like state.
You want to be excited, but you want to be you want to be relaxed, you want to be calm.
That's what you really want.
All right.
So we talked about various things you can do to get yourself into the winter state before you get on
a stage.
Now, there is one more thing I want to add, and you can do it either right before you get on a stage
or you can do it several hours before again, depending on the type of presentation that you are delivering.
But if there is a mike that you're going to be using, I highly, highly recommend.
In fact, I insist that you test the microphone.
And the reason you want to do it is because very often it's a weird feeling when we get on a stage and
suddenly we hear our voice in the speakers, it can really put you off your balance, right?
There are different venues with different sounds and sometimes it just feels weird to get on that stage
and start speaking and suddenly you hear your voice and all of those speakers.
You want to make sure that you get used to that feeling and you do it simply by by just testing the
microphone, right?
Sometimes you can do it several hours before.
If you show up to the venue early, you can ask the technical team and you can just say, hey, one,
two, three, one, one, one, one, two, three.
You can test the microphone.
This will make you feel more comfortable with your own voice.
But at the same time, if you can, I recommend doing it right before your presentation.
Now I know that it may sound a bit counterintuitive, so let me show you a very short story that happened
to me a few years ago back in London.
So I went to this one conference I was supposed to present for a bunch of traders, teaching them about
overcoming fear and managing their estate.
And the CEO of that company was presenting as well.
Now, before his presentation, he came up to me and he said very vulnerably, Hey man, I'm pretty
stressed out.
Like this is the first time I'm going to be on a mic.
Like, I feel uneasy now.
I gave him a bunch of strategies.
A lot of the things I taught him are literally the things that I'm telling you about and this video
and this course, right?
But one of the things that I did and that worked, magic was testing the microphone.
So it was maybe five or 10 minutes before the presentation.
I said to him, Listen, what are we going to do right now is we're going to walk through the stage.
People know the presentation is not starting yet.
They know that it's not the time yet.
So we're just going to casually walk through the stage talking.
But as we are talking, I want you to just look at people just just have a feeling that that you are
in front of those people.
At some point, I want you to grab a microphone and just say to them, everyone, I just want to say
thank you so much for showing up early.
Just to let you know, we're going to start in 10 minutes.
It's something like I don't remember the exact words.
It was something like that and it was a bit confused, but he did it right.
And then after he did it, we went to the back again and he told me, Man, that felt pretty uncomfortable.
But you know what?
It wasn't as scary as I thought it would be.
It wasn't as scary.
I feel way better about getting to this stage later on.
And this is really interesting, right?
Because when you get that mic, when you test it in front of an audience, even if it's just saying
a sentence like, hey, hey, thank you, everyone for coming, right?
Or We going to start in 20 minutes or 5 minutes, whatever it is.
When you just say that you're pushing your comfort zone, you are given a micro presentation in a sense,
even if it's just you sharing two or three sentences, it's a micro presentation, so you get a glimpse
of what's about to happen.
In most cases you realize, well, it's actually not a big deal.
I thought, it's a big deal.
I've been building up all this pressure and anxiety, but it's actually not a big deal, right?
It's completely fine.
And this is what's going to happen to you.
Now, another thing I want to add here is that if you cannot do that, then at least before your presentation,
what you want to do is when somebody else is presenting, you want to make sure that you are standing
very close to the front and you are facing the audience again, different venues, different possibilities.
But what I like to do, for example, if the stage is really big, like to go all the way to the front
and like to stand by the wall, looking at the speaker, but also facing the audience.
And as I'm facing the audience, I imagine that I'm one of the presenters.
I imagine that the spotlight is also on me, right?
If the presenter is there and the audience is there.
Right.
And I'm so close to the stage, obviously they are looking at the presenter, but I'm imagining that
I'm in some type of panel discussion that that person is talking now.
But the audience is also given attention to me and it feels weird, right?
Your brain is so powerful you can visualize anything.
So I visualize that I'm also on a stage and guess what?
It creates some butterflies.
But after standing like this for 15, 20 minutes while somebody else is presenting.
Having to.
Our audience in front of you.
What happens is later on and this is so powerful, you got to use it is so powerful when you get in
front of that audience because it's your turn to present.
It doesn't feel that scary, doesn't feel that foreign, doesn't feel like the unknown because you're
used to the feeling of having all of those people in front of you.
It's tremendous how it works, but this is what happens.
Where are you're going to get there and you'll feel like, Wow, this is not much different to what
I experienced before while I was standing on the side of this stage.
Anyhow, use it super powerful.
So now that we talked about all of those things, let's get into the situation of you actually getting
on a stage, you getting on a stage.
How do you feel comfortable when you get on a stage?
Well, first impression is important not just for the audience, but also for yourself.
Right.
You're creating a first impression for yourself.
So if you start your presentation with low energy, without confidence, you are less likely to feel
confident and energetic and charismatic.
Of course, the audience is less likely to perceive you as a charismatic, charismatic, confident,
captivating presenter.
But if you start with the right foot, if you start with the right level of energy, it's going to be
kind of like a self-fulfilling prophecy.
So now when you get on a stage, you create a first impression, not just the first impression and the
eyes of the audience, but also in your own perception.
Right?
Because the reality is that, yes, if you get on a stage and you act confident, right, you have high
level of energy.
People will perceive you as an energetic, captivating, charismatic presenter.
But also you will have this new understanding that, well, I'm acting confident, I'm energetic.
I guess this is who I am.
I am a confident.
PRESENTER.
You'll be more likely to maintain that.
Having said that, if you get on a stage with low level of energy, a lot of people do this, they go
on a stage very slowly, they look down, they have this negative body language.
If you start super low energy, it's going to be very hard for you to build up on that.
And that's why it's so important for you to start with an extra level of energy.
When you get on a stage, just almost even if you're not very excited, try to fake this excitement.
You see excitement and anxiety are very similar, right?
When you really think about it, excitement and anxiety when it comes to bodily reactions to what you
feel in your body.
Extremely similar, right?
Your heart is beating faster, maybe sweating.
You may have thousands of faults.
You're kind of jittery a little bit.
You know what I'm talking about?
The difference is that when you are excited, you actually are looking forward to whatever's going to
happen.
You are looking forward to it.
You expect that the result will be positive.
When you are anxious, you are constantly afraid.
You feel those those emotions, but you're thinking, well, what if I'm not going to do well?
What if I'm going to fail?
What if this is going to happen or that's going to happen?
So the only difference is your perception of the situation.
So what you want to do is when you feel that anxiety, when you're getting on a stage, you want to
turn it into excitement.
You want to pump yourself up, right?
You want to almost overdo it.
You know, there's this all saying fake it till you make it.
Well, I guess you can apply it here.
Fake it till you make it.
Get on a stage.
High level of energy, positive body language.
Now we talk about body language.
We have a separate section in discourse just about body language.
But to give you a little glimpse here in this emergency video, remember, proper posture, open position,
your shoulder blades together, put a bit of smile on your face, use the muscles of your face.
Right.
Just have this powerful body language you do that you get on stage like this, you will feel way better
than getting on a stage like this or crossing your arms.
So that's what you want to do.
You want to start with that powerful energy.
Now, when you're on the stage, when you look at the audience, first of all, remember, remind yourself
before you get on a stage that your audience is there because they want to watch you present.
They want to watch you.
They're not there because they want to throw stones at you.
They are there because they want to see you succeed.
Because guess what?
If you succeed, they will succeed as well.
If you do well, they're going to enjoy it.
So it's a win win situation.
You are in the same game, you are playing on the same team.
You have to remember about it.
Another thing is that they don't know how you feel now.
This is a big one.
You may feel anxiety deep inside, as I said before.
Right.
You want to turn anxiety and excitement, but you may feel this heart beating fast, right?
You may feel like you're sweating and you may think, well, okay, I'm excited.
I'm excited.
Yes, you're trying to get excited, but you may think at the back of your head, well, what if they
can't see that I'm actually stressed out and the reality is that they won't be able to see it right.
Even if you are really stressed out inside, very few people can notice it.
Just because we feel something inside doesn't mean that other people can see it.
And I had a lot of situations in the past when I was really stressed out and then I ask people, Hey,
honestly, man, could you see how stressed I was?
And I would simply respond, What are we talking about?
You are so confident, right?
You are so confident, man.
And even recently I was doing a podcast and I'm going to make this super short.
I was doing a podcast and I didn't feel out my best.
I wasn't stressed, but I just didn't have a very high level of energy.
And I felt like I figured went just okay.
And then the guy who interviewed me, he kept telling me, You got to listen to our podcast.
It's incredible.
I'm like, Man, I don't have to listen to it.
I was there.
We did it together.
He said, No, no, no, trust me.
It's amazing.
You've got to listen to what we did together.
So I'm like, Okay, cool.
So I listen to it.
And I realized, Wow, I don't remember this being so good.
It was actually really funny.
It was really good, very captivating.
But in my head, because I wasn't in my best state, I felt like, well, it's not my best performance,
right?
So we often, you know, how we perceive reality is not the reality itself.
And that's why I have to remember that just because you feel in a certain way doesn't mean that people
can see it.
All right.
So this is it for the emergency video.
I know there is a lot of info.
I didn't want to overwhelm you, but at the same time, I wanted to give you the most important things
that you can utilize right now, just a few days before your presentation.
I really hope that this is helpful and remember, have fun with it.
As I always say, you are there because people want you to be there.
Even if you are presenting in a company.
You know, people want to learn from you, they want to hear your experiences.
You are there for a reason.
If you are not meant to present, you wouldn't be there.
It's as simple as that.
So rather than getting stressed out again, take that anxiety, turn it into excitement.
Remember about all of the other things I told you about and just have fun.
You are alive and whatever emotions you feel.
Guess what, you are alive, so enjoy the ride.
I'm sure that you're going to do amazingly well.


=== Overcome Fear & Find Courage to Speak Up! ===


--- 400,000+ Students & 85,000+ 5* Reviews Milestone: THANK YOU SO MUCH ---

What is going on?
Everybody?
I just want to say thank you so, so much for being one of my students on Udemy.
So I just checked my stats and I realized that I'm teaching more than 400,000 students a new milestone,
also over 80,005 star ratings.
And I want to say thank you for your trust in my content for making that decision to enroll in my courses,
especially in the world of abundance.
There are so many different courses out there, and the fact that you decided to learn from my content
is really humbling.
So thank you so much for that.
And by the way, I even wrote a book about my journey of building online courses.
For those of you who are curious, it's called Course Creation Simplified.
This is where I teach my process, my journey, how I build my courses, how I design them, how I create
them, how I publish them.
So in case this sounds like something fun and interesting, you can have a look on Amazon.
But once again, thank you so much.
And if there is any feedback you have for me or any requests in terms of new content that you would
like to see in my courses, please do let me know.
I will be filming again.
I'm here in the studio right now, but I'm going to be doing a lot of filming trips in the upcoming
months, both filming in the studio and outdoors, and I need some feedback from you because ultimately
those courses are not for me.
They are for you.
So the more info, the more questions you give me, the better I can serve you.
So once again, thank you so much.
I'm really happy about this milestone.
I still vividly remember the time when I was getting started, when I pressed the publish button, and
I really didn't know what would happen.
I didn't know if the market is going to respond and the next thing you know, ten years later, 400,000
people from over 190 countries.
It's mind blowing, especially for somebody who grew up in Poland, right in a small town in Poland
speaking only Polish.
It is quite surreal.
So thank you so much and I'm gonna see you in my other videos.
All the best.


=== Understanding Your Audience in order to EXCEED Their Expectations ===


--- Update about late 2022/2023 Video EXTRAS ---

What is going on?
Everyone is Jimmy here, and I really hope that you've been enjoying this presentation skills, cause
I hope that by now you feel like your presentation skills are way better.
I hope that you feel more confident and you know how to create that charisma whenever you speak to groups
of people.
Now, I know that this course has a ton of videos literally over 10 hours, I think 12 or 13 hours of
content, but I still do my best to add extra material to make this course as complete as possible based
on your suggestions and your questions.
So rather than just coming up to places like this one and pretending that I know what you need, I literally
look into the messages, I look into the formal feedback, and then I ask myself, What are the types
of videos?
What is the type of content that I should be adding to this course to give you as much value as possible?
And filming this as of November 2020, I'm traveling across the Canary Islands.
I'm here on Tenerife.
So this is Tenerife.
It's a beautiful island.
I've been to La Palma filming a lot of content.
I'm heading to Gran Canaria as well.
And again my goal is to film as much amazing videos as possible.
Now please bear in mind that I'm creating extras for a lot of my courses and I have a lot of them.
I have a lot of them now.
My team is working 24 seven, but we still have our limitations, so I will be posting those new videos
gradually.
But here's the thing, and this is important.
Whenever you get an email from me, make sure that you check it out because whenever I upload new material,
I let you know via educational email to make sure that you don't miss out on those new lectures.
So having said that, I hope that you are excited.
I hope that you will enjoy all of those incredible views and all the new content and let's get into
it.


=== How To Structure Your Presentation STEP-BY-STEP ===


--- Learning Objectives: Full Course Breakdown ---

All right.
So in this video, I'm going to share with you exactly what's going to happen in this course.
I feel like that whenever you embark on any adventure, it is important to have some type of map.
Otherwise you're just walking blindly.
And I feel like that by you understanding what's about to happen in this course.
Well, first of all, you will get more motivated.
You will get more inspiration because you will see how much great content is waiting for you.
But also it's going to help you to kind of structure things a little bit better in your head.
Now, I have a lot of content in this course.
There's so much content, so many sections.
So rather than trying to memorize everything I have everything written down, I'm going to tell you
exactly what's going to happen.
So right now we are in the introduction section.
So this section serves as a foundation.
I'm talking to you about things like this.
I'm talking to you about best practices, I introduce myself to you, etc. So that's section number
one.
Now in the second section, we will be talking about overcoming your fear of public speaking.
Now, the reason I'm talking about fear in this second section is because it's one of those fundamental
things that you have to handle if you want to become a great presenter.
And it doesn't matter if you are a student who has to present virtually from time to time, or maybe
you are unemployed and you have to present every quarter, or perhaps you are a CEO or some type of
influencer, and you tend to present pretty much every single week no matter what your situation is.
Well, if you want to become a great presenter, you have to build up your confidence.
And it's pretty much impossible to be confident about presenting if you don't know how to overcome your
fear.
So Section two is all about overcoming your fear and building courage for presenting.
Now the Section three is about your audience.
Now, this is something that may sound a bit counterintuitive and a lot of people don't get it.
But if you want to create an amazing presentation that will captivate, well, you have to understand
your audience first and to understand them, you have to define them.
So I'm going to be talking about a lot of different things in connection to who is your audience and
how you can serve your audience.
Now the section on before is about the structure of your speech or your presentation.
Now, of course, before you even try to deliver your presentation, before you practice, before you
do all of those different things well, you have to first structure your presentation.
So I'm going to talk to you exactly how you can do that.
Then afterwards we will delve into creating your content.
Now, once you have your structure, well, now you have to fill your structure with amazing content.
So in that section, I'm going to teach you exactly what you can do to create captivating content that
will make your audience feel like, Wow, like this person really knows what they are talking about.
Now, once we talk about content, we'll be talking about practicing in an effective way.
Now, a lot of people get it wrong.
A lot of people don't know how to practice.
In fact, a lot of people don't even practice.
They simply write down a bunch of bullet points.
They read them without even saying anything out loud.
And they think that that's practicing.
No, no, no.
That's not practice.
I'm going to show you some incredible exercises and strategies so you can take your practice to the
next level.
Now, once we talk about practice, I'm going to teach you how you can get yourself into do winners
state.
Now, I know it may sound a bit cheesy.
The winner is State.
What is all that about?
Well, it's about creating a state where you feel unstoppable.
So whether you're doing a big presentation on a massive stage or maybe you are presenting in front of
your team at a company, or perhaps you are doing your thesis presentation at a university, whatever
it is, rather than just waiting for that incredible state to maybe come to you and just hoping that
you will feel great, you want to make sure that you engineer a winner.
State And fortunately, there are certain strategies that I'm going to share with you that will help
you to get into that winner state before any presentation.
So once we handle that, once you learn how to get into your winner state, we will talk about your
delivery, right?
Because now you got yourself into the right state and you have to get on that stage or you have to stand
up in front of all of those people who are waiting for you to speak up.
Well, how will you deliver your presentation?
Surprisingly, a lot of people don't even think about delivery.
They simply assume that presenting is about just presenting, right?
Just have to get out there and talk.
But it's about so much more than that, right?
You have to have the right body language, the right tonality, the right energy, the right stage presence.
So we'll be talking about all of that.
I'm going to teach you some powerful strategies that will take you from just a regular presenter to
a really captivating, charismatic presenter.
Now, after the section about delivery, I would like to delve deep into one of the most important aspects
of delivery, which is your body language.
Your body language is tremendously important when you are presenting, right?
I mean, you can see the difference.
Now, if I was talking to you like this, if I was standing just in one place looking, talking to you
like this, you probably wouldn't feel like I'm the type of person you want to listen to.
But the moment, even though I'm holding my lap.
If I got flu, use my body.
The moment I'm using my hands, the moment I'm using my facial expressions, you can see a completely
different level of energy.
So I'm going to teach you everything I know about body language in the context of presenting.
Now, once we handle that, we'll be talking about best practices after your presentation.
And you may be surprised because a lot of people think, well, you present and that's it, right?
You get off the stage, you leave the room and that's it wrong.
There are certain things that you should be doing after you present.
For example, you should take advantage of the stage effect, right?
When you get on a stage in a way, you become a micro celebrity within that environment, which simply
means that it's easier for you to close any deal to make any new connection, right?
Because you get that stage effect.
So that's just one of the things I'm going to talk to you about.
But in that section, I want to delve deeper into it.
I'm going to share with you some of the most powerful strategies based on real life, not just on theory,
but real life.
What you can do after the presentation now, after we talk about the best practices, after your presentation,
I would like to gift you an extra section about hosting.
And the reason I want to do it is because an increasing number of people have to host all types of gatherings.
Now, perhaps you are one of them.
Maybe your company leader told you, Listen, we would like to have a meeting about X, Y and Z and
you will be the host, right?
Or maybe you are hosting your own event, whatever the situation is.
I know that hosting can be really tricky because it's completely different from just given a presentation.
And because a lot of my students have been asking me about hosting in the past, I figured why not preempt
it?
And rather than waiting for some of you to ask me about this section, I may as well just film it while
I'm here.
So that section will be all about hosting.
Now, once we talk about that, I'm going to delve into video presenting.
And even though a lot of the videos from this course will apply to video presenting, I feel like it's
such an important thing that it deserves a separate section.
Now, after the video presenting section, I would like to talk to you about slides.
Now, instead of making this section very, very long, I want to focus on the most important things
that you have to remember about creating slides.
And by the way, right now you are probably thinking, wow, Jimmy, that's a lot of content.
That's a ton of content.
And I have to say, I'm thinking exactly the same thing right now as I'm looking at all of this.
I realize that there is so much content, probably 60, 70, maybe 100 videos in this course.
But I have to tell you, all of this is based on experience.
This is not just from some random book I read back in the day.
This is based on my real experiences and teaching this to so many people from all over the world.
You see, over the years I've been teaching on so many different stages, really tiny ones and really
huge ones.
I made a ton of mistakes, but I've learned from them.
So yes, there is a lot of content in there, but the way I approach it is I keep asking myself, what
else can I add into discourse?
What can I do to make it even better?
In fact, what can I do to make this the best course that has ever been created on this planet about
public speaking, video presenting overall presentation skills?
This is my intention, so I know there's a lot of content, but trust me, once you get into it, you
will benefit tremendously from it.
So after this section about slides, I'm going to give you an extra section about perceived confidence.
Now, confidence overall is extremely important because if you don't believe in yourself, then obviously
it's very hard to make other people believe in you.
But perceived confidence is a really interesting angle because there are certain things that you can
do in order to make other people feel like you are more confident that you actually are.
And this is actually very useful when you get on any stage.
Now, once we wrap up perceived confidence, I'm going to share with you a section with some of the
biggest mistakes that people make when presenting.
And that's going to be a really interesting section because some of those mistakes will be my mistakes.
I'm going to share with you some stories I'm going to tell you straight up some of the biggest mistakes
that I've made and how you can avoid them.
Once we do that, we will have a section with fake and some of the biggest hacks you can use.
So I'm going to pose some of the most frequently asked questions in this section.
So as we keep going through this course, if you have any questions for me, if you want some bonus
videos or if you are unsure about something, you can send me a message and those videos will go into
that section.
And then finally the last section will be about your core confidence.
And the reason I'm doing this extra section is because, as I mentioned just 30 seconds ago, if you
don't believe in yourself, it's going to be very hard to make other people believe in you.
So it is very important that you build your core confidence that you build the foundation.
So when you look in the mirror, you believe in yourself.
You like what you see, like who you see in front of you.
You trust yourself.
You feel like you are good enough, right?
Because once you have that.
Once you have that foundation of core confidence built up, it's going to be so much easier for you
to just go out there on any stage in front of anyone and to overdeliver.
I have to tell you, my my wrist is akin to me from holding this laptop in one hand for so long, which
makes me realize how long this old line is.
There's so much content in here, but I have to tell you that I'm very excited about filming all of
those videos on this beautiful island of La Palma, Canary Islands.
This is one of my favorite places in the world, and I can't wait to show this place to you.
And look, even if it's raining and yes, we have some tricky weather, you will see some of the B-roll,
even if the mosquitoes are biting me and kids are shouting and all the other things are happening.
I'm going to do my best with Eduardo over there to make sure that you get as much value as possible
while enjoying this content.
So having said that, I'm going to see you in the next video.


=== How To Create Captivating & Unforgettable Content ===


--- Quick Heads Up ---

Hi.
I just want to give you some heads up about something that's about to happen.
Maybe it's already happened right before this video, and it's Udemy asking you for a rating.
Now, Udemy has this very strange system that they ask you for your review of the course pretty much
right at the beginning of the course.
I'm making this video just to let you know that you don't have to give a review if you don't feel comfortable
given a rating yet.
If you feel like you haven't seen enough of the course, then you can you can just skip it and you can
give a rating later on.
There's absolutely no pressure for you given a review for this course.
Now, if you already feel like, wow, this is so much value, I already learned something from it and
I loved the effort that's being put into this course.
Of course, I always appreciate five star ratings.
It always warms my heart to see those.
But at the same time, zero pressure, absolutely zero pressure for you to pass the rating.
You can keep watching this course until you're more comfortable and you actually see what's inside of
this course because as you know, there are so many videos to come.
Just wanted to let you know this and I'm going to see you in the next video.


=== How To Practice Effectively in order to Present with Ease and Conviction ===


--- Optional: Best Practises ---

I really hope that you are excited after the last video, seeing how much content you will get in this
course.
Now, in this video, I'd like to share with you some of the best practices for making the most out
of your journey in this course.
Now, first of all, what I want you to do is I really want you to watch all of those videos.
And I'm saying this because a lot of people, they buy courses because they want to get that dopamine
hit.
They want to feel good, but they barely watch any video.
So I feel like it's important to pre schedule some of those times when you will watch those videos.
That's what I do when I watch other courses, when I read books, when I do anything.
The moment you put it in the calendar, that's when it becomes real.
Now, another thing is that everyone is different and some of you are non native speakers, some of
you are native speakers.
Depending on your situation, you can either slow down those videos or you can make them faster.
Now, in order to change the speed of the video, just go down to the left corner and you can add just
the speed based on your preferences.
For example, myself, whenever I listen to audiobooks, whenever I watch courses, I typically like
to do it at 1.5 or two x the normal speed, everyone is different, so do whatever works for you.
Another important thing is that whenever I give you some type of action, step or exercise, I really
want to ask you to do it right away.
And the reason I'm saying this is because there is this temptation that we all have to postpone it to
tomorrow, maybe next week.
But as we all know, tomorrow, one day, some day, they just never come.
Right.
You say to yourself, I will do that exercise later on, but then we tend to forget about it or we just
kind of be bothered to do it.
And in reality, you know, discourse is about your presentation skills.
You can just watch it.
And of course, yes, you will get some value from it.
But if you really want to become an amazing presenter, you have to take action.
You have to do those exercises and you will see that after performing the exercises, you will feel
incredible because you will see the results.
Finally, here's a little strategy that I recommend to most people.
Again, everyone is different.
This may not work for you, but for most people in order to maximize the value they get from my courses.
So I recommend that you watch every single video from the beginning till the end, but do it by sections.
So we are in section one right now.
I recommend that you watch the entire section from the beginning till the end and afterwards revisit
your favorite videos.
Now everyone is different.
Everyone will resonate with different videos.
So go back, revisit the videos, take all the action to do all the exercises, and only then move to
the next section and ideally do it section by section by section.
Now again, you can do it either way.
I just wanted to give you this as a little strategy that a lot of people have been using in.
My course is very successful.
Having said that, I really hope that you are excited and I'm going to see you in the next video.


=== Engineering Your “Winner” State Before Presenting to Feel Confident and Powerful ===


--- Optional: Why Listen To Me? ---

What's going on.
Everyone is Jimi here.
And this video is optional.
And the reason I'm making it optional is because I'm going to talk a little bit about myself.
But in the context of this course, of course, I'm not going to be sharing with you all types of stories
from the past that are not relevant.
My intention behind this video is for you to get to know me better in the context of presentation skills.
Because you see, nowadays, as I travel the world, I speak on various stages, I do workshops, I
do big keynotes.
People often look at me and they say, Hey, it's easy for you.
You just have it in your DNA.
It's natural for you.
You are a confident guy.
I'm not like you.
And you see, what people don't realize is that I used to struggle terribly, terribly with anxiety
issues, with confidence issues, as one of those people that, you know, I just didn't believe in
myself.
And it was very visible.
I had situations when I would have to enter some type of social environment and I would feel physically
stressed out, you know, my heart pounding, my palms sweating.
And I even had panic attacks in the past.
So I know how debilitating it feels.
And I'm telling you about it because a lot of people, again, they tell me, well, it's easy for you.
I cannot do what you are doing.
But what I don't realize is that being a great presenter, being a captivating, charismatic speaker,
it's not just some talent.
Yes, some people have a bit more of that that ability than others.
But it is a skill that you can learn, that anyone can learn.
And there are plenty of examples of people who managed to go from literally zero to become an incredible
presenters.
So let's start from the beginning.
I grew up in post-communist Poland.
Now my father came to Poland from South America, he came from British Guyana, met my mom who was Polish.
They studied together and that's when I was born.
They were still living at the University Hall.
So for a few years of my life, I was literally living in a student dorm.
But when I was growing up in Poland, I got a lot of love from my parents.
I was a very active kid, but as I got a little bit older, a lot of other kids started reminding me
of the fact that I was different.
You see, my name is Jimmy Noren.
Now, Jimmy the Rain is definitely not a Polish name, so a lot of kids kept asking me, Hey, where
do you come from?
Why don't you go back to wherever you came from?
You know, kids can be very cruel.
So you see, as I was growing up, I experienced a little bit of racism.
And probably because of that, I had this distinct feeling of always being someone different, always
being an outsider.
I never really felt like I truly belonged to my group.
So to make the long story short, as I was growing up, I experienced anxiety.
I didn't fully believe in myself.
I had dreams.
I wanted to travel the world.
I remember looking at the globe, pondering which places I'm going to visit in the future.
Right?
I wanted to be an adventurer.
I wanted to create something big in this world.
But deep inside, I didn't believe that it was possible for me growing up in post-communist Poland without
too much money, even my teachers were telling me, Listen, kid, just stop dreaming, try to finish
school, try to get to any university so then you can get a decent job and maybe even you can go on
holiday once a year, right?
That was the mentality that was these were defaults that I was being fed every single day.
And fortunately, at some point I discovered personal development that quite frankly, saved me.
So I dove deep into various books.
And as I kept reading, I realized, hold on a second, there are people out there who had way tougher
situations than myself.
Now, I read about people who went through the Second World War.
I read about people who grew up in Rwanda during the genocide in 1994.
I read about people like that and I realized, wow, they went through those indescribable hardships
and they still managed to build the lives that they wanted to live.
I read a lot of Tony Robbins.
I read a lot of Dale Carnegie, Brian Tracy, authors like that.
And I realized that I could truly bend reality to my world.
Now beforehand I thought, Well, this is you.
You have your circumstances, and it's not really up to you what's going to happen with your life.
But I started realizing that hold on a second.
No, okay, sure.
These are your circumstances.
But you can take them and you can kind of mix them up and create something completely new.
You can essentially bend reality to your will.
So that's what I started doing.
I essentially tried to hack my life.
I started educating myself.
I started studying English like a maniac, you know, back.
Back then, I didn't speak English very well.
I had a very heavy Eastern European accent.
So I developed this obsession of learning hundreds of words every single day, trying to eventually
go to the UK to study there.
Now again, make the long story short.
Fast forward, I managed to bootstrap myself to a British university.
I really love that I managed to overcome a lot of my limiting beliefs.
But still some of that imposter syndrome, a lot of that anxiety just kept surfacing right as I was
surrounded by all of those different kids from from different countries.
A lot of them have way more money than myself.
I felt insecure.
I felt inadequate on top.
Of that.
My English wasn't perfect.
I mean, I pretty much well, we had English at school in Poland, but it wasn't a very, very high
quality, let's say.
So I pretty much taught myself English.
So being at a British university, dealing with different accents, dealing with people from different
backgrounds, it wasn't easy.
So on the one hand, I kept destroying a lot of limiting beliefs, but then on the other hand, I kept
encountering new challenges.
And I guess this is what happens in life.
This is what everyone is experiencing.
And ever since I remember, I admired people who had that courage to get out there in front of people
and present, whether it was in a social setting, maybe at school or perhaps doing some type of class
or university presentation.
For me it was always the pinnacle, right?
If you can't do that while you've made it, because it means that you are courageous, it means that
you have something to say.
It means that you are a leader.
But unfortunately, I didn't feel that power in me.
I felt extremely scared of getting out there and presenting in front of people.
And in fact, there were times when teachers would pick somebody to go in front of the classroom and
speak.
And I always dreaded those moments.
And whenever it happened, you know, and I'm sure you kind of resonate with this, right.
And this anticipation in the lead up to that moment when the teacher picked somebody, I could feel
my heart beating really fast, sweating.
And whenever somebody picked me, you know, I usually managed to to go through it.
But inside it just felt terrible, right?
So I remember one time at the university, I joined this organization called ISAC, and at some point
I ended up joining the executive board of that organization.
So we were delivering a presentation to entice new students to join our organization.
And I very vividly remember when I had to present in front of 80, maybe 100 people, and right before
my presentation, my heart started pounding.
I didn't know what was happening.
I was sweating.
I had thousands of thoughts in my mind and I just couldn't get myself to do it.
And I ended up running away.
I literally ended up running away.
Okay.
The story doesn't end there.
I'm going to share more of that story later on in Section two.
But this is what happened.
And, you know, for me, that was that was just terrible.
It's like rejection multiplied pi by a thousand because you have a lot of people in the audience, you
know, you're going to be starting with those people.
It felt terrible.
And that was one of the breakthrough moments when I realized, okay, there's too much pain associated
with this inability to go out there and present confidently.
I have to do something about it.
Now, fast forward, make the long story short.
You know, in the meantime, I worked for different corporations.
I tried different business ventures.
But over the last eight years, I've been traveling the world full time, teaching over 270,000 people
here on Udemy.
I recently became a Mine Valley author as well.
I co-authored a course with Vishal Lakhani himself.
I've been doing a lot of different things involved in different business ventures, whether it's co-creating
a project or investing in a project or consulting a project.
So I've been doing a lot of different things and part of it is me going out there speaking on international
stages.
So I've been speaking in places such as Japan, a Barcelona recently, Buenos Aires in Argentina.
I've been literally speaking all over the world.
And if somebody told me back then, when I run away from a stage that one day I would be living this
life, that I would be traveling the world, speaking on stage, talking to massive groups of people
I just wouldn't have believed.
But I feel like this is the living proof that you can't change no matter what is your situation right
now, even if you don't perceive yourself to be a great presenter, maybe you have issues with fear
and confidence, or maybe you're not that afraid.
But you don't know how to captivate your audience.
Maybe you don't know how to use the power of storytelling.
Whatever it is you may think, well, anybody else can change, but not me.
I am the living proof that you can do it.
And the good news is that in this course I'm going to teach you exactly everything I've learned.
As you can see, there's a lot of videos in this course I'm taking all of my knowledge, all of my experiences,
mistakes as well, blending them together into this cocktail of useful information that will help you
to take everything to the next level.
So just a short video.
Good time to wrap up because it's raining, it starts raining.
I feel the raindrops come.
And I'm going to show the bureau in a second.
Thank you so much.
I'm going to see you in the next video.


=== Master Your Delivery for More Engagement, Better Results and Genuine Applause ===


--- Black Friday EXTRAS ---

What is going on?
Everyone, it's Jimmy here, and I really hope that you've been enjoying this presentation skills,
cause I hope that by now you feel like your presentation skills are way better.
I hope that you feel more confident and you know how to create that charisma whenever you speak to groups
of people.
Now, I know that this course has a ton of videos literally over 10 hours, I think 12 or 13 hours of
content, but I still do my best to add extra material to make this course as complete as possible based
on your suggestions and your questions.
So rather than just coming up to places like this one and pretending that I know what you need, I literally
look into the messages, I look into the formal feedback, and then I ask myself, What are the types
of videos?
What is the type of content that I should be adding to this course to give you as much value as possible.
I'm filming this as of November 2020.
I'm traveling across the Canary Islands.
I'm here on Tenerife.
So this is Tenerife.
It's a beautiful island.
I've been to La Palma filming a lot of content.
I'm heading to Gran Canaria as well.
And again my goal is to film as much amazing videos as possible.
Now please bear in mind that I'm creating extras for a lot of my courses and I have a lot of them.
I have a lot of them now.
My team is working 24 seven, but we still have our limitations, so I will be posting those new videos
gradually.
But here's the thing, and this is important.
Whenever you get an email from me, make sure that you check it out.
Because whenever I applaud new material, I let you know via educational email to make sure that you
don't miss out on those new lectures.
So having said that, I hope that you are excited.
I hope that you will enjoy all of those incredible views and all the new content and let's get into
it.


=== Body Language: Everything You Need To Know About Non-Verbal Communication ===


--- EXTRA: How To Start Your Speaking Career? ---

One of the most common questions I get is Jimmy.
I want to speak on different stages.
How do I make it happen?
I see you getting on all of those corporate stages.
I see you speaking at various events.
How do I do it?
How do I get paid?
How do I speak at international events?
So listen, in this video, I'm going to share with you what I've learned over the years of speaking
internationally while exploring 78 different countries.
And some of the lessons may surprise you.
All right, so let's get started.
Now.
The first thing I want to tell you is that initially when you're getting started as a speaker, you
have to drop your ego.
Really.
You have to forget about your ego and your pride.
Now, a lot of people tell me, Jimmy, I want to speak on that stage or I want to speak at that event.
But you don't understand.
They have to pay me.
I have to get paid because I know so much and otherwise there's no point of me getting there and doing
it.
And what they don't understand is that initially, if you want the organizers to to pay you to take
you seriously, you have to show them your track record.
And you won't have any track record if you don't get on those stages.
So, yes, initially when I got started, I was speaking for free.
In fact, let me tell you this.
I was reaching out to various organizers, offering my help.
Hey, listen, you're doing a conference.
I can help.
This is what I can do for you, Right?
And I never talked about money because, again, unless you want to build up your brand, you want to
get exposure, you want to show them what you've got.
And a lot of people shoot themselves in the foot.
They say, no, I'm not going to speak for free.
And two years later we made the same people.
And you asked them, How is your career going?
And guess what?
They haven't been speaking anywhere, right?
Because they haven't started.
So initially you've got to take a hit.
Yes.
Sometimes you have to speak for free.
But when you do it, make the most of it right?
When you get on that stage, nail it, kill it right.
Make the most of it.
Just because you speak for free, don't assume, hey, this is not that important.
It's just a basic speech for 100 people.
You know, I'm going to prepare for a little bit, know, take it really seriously.
Always imagine that you're getting paid 100 grand for your speech and prepare accordingly.
And what you want to do is whenever you get on that stage, you want to film it.
I don't care if you use a professional core or if you ask a friend to get one of the latest phones and
film that speech on a phone.
You always want to film your speech.
And the reason is that, well, this is going to be the living proof that you can deliver, right?
These are the materials that you can later use to create your speaker reel.
And this is so important because this is what's going to help your brand.
This is what's going to show to other conference organizers that you've done it before, that you know
how to present, that you know how to captivate the audience.
So look, over the years as I was speaking right on various different stages, I would always do my
best to make videos.
And I have to say I made some mistakes.
My mistake was that I oftentimes trusted that the conference organizers would give me the footage.
Right?
Oftentimes you speak at a conference and they tell you, Hey, don't worry about it.
We have a professional crew.
We will give you the videos.
And then guess what happens after the event?
Everyone shakes your hand.
Hey, amazing job.
Wow.
Well done.
Right, then when you message them about the video, one month passes by, two months pass by, five
months pass by, 20 follow ups, no videos, no videos, right?
Because, hey, the conference is over.
They no longer care.
They are onto the next thing.
So you never just assume that someone will give you the video.
Take charge, take matters into your own hands.
Even if the organizer is making a video, get someone to help you to make sure that you have that video
right away, because then guess what?
You can use that video to reach out to other organizers, right?
You can say, hey, listen, John or Mario, whoever it is, I love to speak at your conference.
This is how I can contribute.
And by the way, here is a clip from the conference from from the speech I delivered a week ago.
Right.
That's going to make you stand out from all of those other candidates.
So please never solely rely on the videos that you will supposedly get from the organizers.
It may happen, but it may not happen.
So you always want to have someone who will help you with those videos and listen, even if it's just
you setting up your phone on a little tripod, it is worth it because then guess what?
Right after that conference, you can take that video, you can cut it up, or you can find the best
bit, right?
Like the 60 seconds, that was really amazing.
Or maybe you got a standing ovation.
You cut out that part.
And then when there is another conference, some type of event, when you message them, you show them
that particular clip.
Right.
And that gives you instant credibility.
And I have to tell you, most people will never do it.
And if you do a couple of those talks, you blend those videos together and you can have even a 15 or
20 or 32nd reel that shows why you are a great presenter.
And again, this is something that most people literally 99.5% of people will never do, right?
So this will make you stand out right away.
Now, here is another lesson based on a mistake I made way too many times.
You don't want to make that mistake.
So imagine this.
You are presenting at a conference.
The feedback is incredible.
People are clapping.
You know, people come to shake your hand after, Hey, this was amazing.
I loved it.
Blah, blah, blah.
Right?
The organizer comes up to you and says, Hey, this was the best presentation of the event.
You know, we got the ratings and people loved it.
And then guess what?
You don't do any.
About it.
And then months pass by and you realize, Oh, wow, like everyone loved it, but no one else outside
of that circle knows about it.
So what you want to do is when you get incredible feedback, get some testimonials, right?
If the organizer tells you, Listen, this was incredible as that person, Hey, you know what?
Would you mind just writing down like a sentence or two just what you said that I can use as a testimonial?
And listen, if they really love your presentation, they'll say, Of course, no problem.
You can literally ask them, Hey, would you mind that?
That even makes it easier for them.
You could say, Listen, would you mind if I write down a sentence or two based on what you just told
me?
You just approve it via email and I could use it as a testimonial.
Would you mind that?
You know, people will be more than happy to help you if you deliver the goods, right?
So again, if you get tremendous feedback, people will be happy to give you testimonials, to give
you official reviews.
And again, those testimonials will help you to land more clients to establish your brand.
Another thing you want to do, and this is something that I've been doing for many years and has been
instrumental in my success as a speaker, especially corporate speaker, is making videos.
You don't just want to rely on getting on stages.
You want to start making videos.
Why?
Well, first of all, you've got to increase your reach, right?
Obviously, when you make a lot of videos, when you publish them as video courses or even on social
media, you will get more and more reach.
You will build your audience and conference organizers when they see that, they're like, Wow, that
person has an audience.
It makes sense to get that person on board because guess what?
Maybe if you have an audience, you will bring some of those people into the conference or into their
website, right?
So that's an incentive for them.
But also every time you make a video, you get better.
When you make a ton of videos, you just can't help but to get better.
Now you understand how you present yourself in front of the camera, you know, the mistakes you make.
And if you you know, if you have certain filler words like, for instance.
Right.
Or, or or whatever it is, you start recognizing those filler words and you can consciously take action
to get rid of them.
It really helps you, right?
You get to the point where you can just present about any topic, any time, just like this very smoothly,
but you get there with practice and video.
Presenting is one of the best ways to practice because of the sheer volume.
Right?
And the feedback loop is so fast.
So please, if you want to become a presenter, if you want to do corporate training, start making
video presentations and look, even if you don't want to publish them, you don't want to build a course,
just make them for yourself until you feel ready.
But I have to tell you, just because you don't feel ready doesn't mean that you are not ready.
In fact, when I look at my life, some of the coolest stuff happened when I decided, You know what?
I don't feel ready, but I'm going to do it anyway because not feeling ready and not being ready are
two different things, right?
You may not feel ready, but it doesn't mean that you are not ready.
Oftentimes we are ready, but we just don't give ourselves enough credit.
So here's another tip Don't wait till the last minute to apply to speak at a conference.
A lot of beginner speakers make a mistake of looking up conferences that are happening six weeks ahead,
maybe eight weeks from now, three months from now.
You know, those conferences are usually fully booked out.
What you want to do is you want to find events that are happening six months from now, 12 months from
now.
Right.
Because that's when you have your biggest opportunity to lock those deals in.
And again, as I said at the beginning, you know, don't worry so much about making money.
If you perform really well, money will eventually come.
You will get to the point where everyone will assume like you just don't speak for free.
You are a professional speaker and you have a very high fee that's well justified.
But to get to that point, well, sometimes you have to take a little hit and you have to say, listen,
I will come, I'm going to speak.
You don't even have to worry about my flights and accommodation.
I'm going to do it myself.
But I will come and I'm going to nail it and I'm going to contribute a lot to your audience.
Right.
And if you talk like this to the organizers say, eight or ten months in advance, it's very hard to
say no to this, especially when you show them.
By the way, I did something similar here.
Here is a video.
I did something similar here.
Here is another video.
These are my video presentations as well.
So we get a feeling for my style.
It is very hard for an organizer to say no to you.
And again, if you do it enough times, you will build up your brand and all the content to the point
where now when you talk to someone, you can tell them, Hey, I charge this much or I charge that much,
and you will see that people will be reaching out to you and your budgets will increase significantly.
I'm talking from my experience, right, I wasn't charging from the very beginning.
And yes, sometimes I got my lucky break and right at the beginning somebody would reach out and would
say, listen, you know, we are willing to pay you X amount to speak.
And I'm like, okay, cool.
You try to negotiate a little bit, you go for it.
But now I'm at the stage where my budgets are really, really high and they are fully justified and
people keep reaching out to me and I have to say no to a lot of speaking gigs because I simply don't
have enough time and I have certain standards, but I didn't get here overnight.
It takes time, but if you put in the work, you will get there.
And here's the final thing if you really want to lock in.
A lot of different events and corporate presentations.
You want to become the type of person that they really want to work with, right?
So if they work with 20 different people, you want to be the person that comes up in their conversations.
Wow.
You know, Angie is so amazing.
Wow.
She just did the presentation.
She was awesome, right?
You want people to talk about you in the context of how professional you are and how you always exceed
expectations.
So, for instance, when I do corporate training, yes, sometimes I do one single talk or workshop,
but most of the times I do some type of package deal where, for instance, I fly in and I do two or
three presentations or a full day of training.
And then afterwards, for instance, one month later or two months later, I jump online with those
people and we do some type of virtual training, Q&amp;A, etc. Sometimes I provide videos, so I come here
to La Palma, Tenerife, Gran Canaria, one of my favorite islands in the world.
I come here with a crew and we filmed those videos for those corporations custom videos where I talk
directly to the employees that I met in person.
I do those things, but what I like to do is I like to exceed expectations, right?
So for instance, when I tell the company, listen, this is the package and part of the package is
that I'm going to make a summary video.
There's going to be maybe five or 7 minutes long, write this summary of the training I did in person.
When I'm actually filming that video.
Instead of making 7 minutes, I may make 17 minutes or 22 minutes, right?
I'm going to exceed expectations.
I'm going to be the type of person that extremely easy to communicate with, right?
If they send me an email, I'm going to make sure that I respond at least within a day or two.
Right.
Or at least one of my assistants will notify them if I'm not available, if I'm offline on some mountain.
Right.
I love to do adventures, but I make sure that I'm easy to interact with.
I make sure that whenever we have a discussion, whenever we work on a package, I send them a summary,
Hey, you know so and so.
It was a great call.
This is what we discussed.
This is the package.
This is exactly what's going to happen.
These are the takeaways, right?
I want to make sure that at every single point I'm a pro, I want them to feel like, you know what,
this is like the easiest person to work with.
And on top of that, this guy always exceeds expectations because when you do it this way, and then
when you get on that stage and you're completely obliterated, you kill it, you nail it, what's going
to happen is they will invite you back, they will message you, and they're going to tell you, listen,
great job.
We want you back for next year.
Right.
And you're going to sign new deals.
But also they will recommend you to other companies.
And guess what?
The word spreads.
A lot of those people on the top, they know one another.
Right.
And if you perform really well, you know, they have friends and they want some of that action as well.
So suddenly your name will be going around and you will notice that people will be reaching out to you
and you may get to the point where you don't even have to reach out yourself to anybody because enough
people reach out to you.
This is the point at which I am right now, to be completely frank with you.
And it's amazing because I can run my business, I can focus on creating video presentations for my
courses, I can do other things.
And those speaking gigs, they just come from referrals from old clients.
And occasionally when I really want to work with someone, I would reach out to them.
But it's a beautiful setup and you can have it too if you put in the work.
Thank you so much for watching this video.
I really hope that it's helpful that it gave you some really good food for thought.
In terms of you becoming a professional presenter, let me know what you think about it and I'm going
to see you in the next video.


=== Best Practises AFTER Your Presentation that Most Speakers Aren't Aware Of ===


--- What Makes Presentations Boring? What NOT TO Do ---

Okay.
So first things first.
What makes a boring presenter?
And I'm asking about it because I feel like it is important to identify what creates boring presentations,
what contributes to that, that feeling that people have, that I just don't want to watch that person.
I want to get out of the room.
Right.
I just want to pretend there is an emergency.
I need to get out of here because if you identify what creates that situation, it's going to be easier
for you to avoid those mistakes.
And then later on in the next video, we're going to be talking about certain characteristics and ingredients
that you need to have to become an amazing presenter.
But really think about it.
What makes a boring presenter?
Let's think about it together.
Well, first of all, it's probably the feeling that the person doesn't care about you.
Right?
You ever had a had a presentation where somebody came out in front of the audience and you can clearly
see that that person doesn't believe in their message.
They don't genuinely want to help people who are in the audience.
Right.
Another thing is that a lot of borrowing presenters talk too much about themselves.
Now, there's nothing wrong with talking about yourself, but only if you do it in the context of your
audience.
If you're sharing a story that your audience can resonate with, a story that brings some type of value,
that's fine.
But a lot of boring presenters, they just keep talking about themselves.
And I've been to those types of presentations and it's really terrible when for the first 30 minutes
the person is talking about their company and how they build a company, how much money they made.
And you see all of those slides and it's just like one, one person's show.
It's like, look at me, I'm amazing.
That's something that we definitely want to avoid.
And speaking of slides, right, another massive mistake is when you create presentation slides that
basically become your notes, where when you read the entire presentation word by word from your slides
and you're probably.
Well, actually, not probably.
I'm sure I'm 100% sure that you've seen presentations like this.
And they are really terrible where the speaker gets on a stage and they just read word by word from
every single slide.
You can't even see those words because there's so many of them.
The font is really tiny, it can't even read.
And that person just standing there reading, reading, reading, bam, reading, reading, reading,
bam, it's terrible.
We definitely don't want to get out, get into that situation.
Right.
Another massive mistake.
And this is something that that makes really, really boring presentations is when the person is very
static.
Right now, there are some exceptions.
There are some presenters who can be in one place all the time, but for the vast majority of us, we
have to use the space we have.
Right.
We have to move.
We have to use our body language.
The last thing you want is to be like this.
Speak with the monotonous voice all the time, looking into one direction without moving your body,
without moving your eyes, without changing your tone of voice, without putting any emphasis.
I mean, I'm.
I literally sound like a robot right now.
It feels even weird to do it.
What makes a boring presenter is lack of body language, lack of gesticulation, lack of eye contact
with the audience, not walking through the stage, getting the space right, distributing eye contact
across the audience.
Right.
These are some of the biggest mistakes that that presenters make.
And I would add to it, a lot of presenters who are boring, they just absolutely don't engage their
audience.
Right.
Sometimes they ask a question, but they don't ask it to get an answer.
They don't even ask it for people to think about a question.
They ask a question and just keep moving forward without any pause.
Nobody likes presentations like this.
Nobody wants to listen to somebody who doesn't want to connect with them.
Right.
We crave that connection.
I mean, otherwise, I mean, why would we even need presentations?
You could literally take the transcript and everybody could just read it much faster and skip the entire
show.
Right.
So clearly presentation is not just about providing information, it's about building the connection
with the audience, giving people some type of mindset shift.
Right.
Giving people a perspective shift.
That's what it's all about.
Well, in order to do it, you've got to propel people to think.
You've got to propel them to to ask themselves tough questions.
So engaging your audience is extremely, extremely important.
It can be done in various ways.
Obviously, we're going to be talking about all of this later in the course.
Now, I could keep talking about it.
I could keep giving you various examples of people making all of those mistakes that that make them
really boring on a stage.
But rather than me doing it now, you have some examples.
What I want you to do is right after this video, I want you to really think like from your perspective,
what are some of the other things that make a presentation boring?
Like really think about it now the chances are as you are going through this, you may realize, well,
I'm actually making some of those mistakes myself.
Woo OC may may make you feel a bit weird, but I have to tell you, it's normal and it's completely
fine.
We are all trying to learn, right?
I mean, myself, I made a ton of mistakes like this.
I had presentations where, I mean, you know the story, right?
I run away from a stage.
I had presentations where I was just glued in one spot where I was just too terrified to move around
or even to look at my audience.
So we all make those mistakes, but I feel like it's important to recognize.
What makes a boring presenter really think about it and then identify whether we've been making some
of those mistakes because this will help us to change.
It's going to help us to to find a new direction.
Anyhow, golfers think about it.
And then the next video, we're going to define what makes an amazing presenter.


=== EXTRA Section about CONFIDENCE & Self-Esteem ===


--- What Defines a Great Public Speaker? ---

Okay.
So what makes a great presenter?
What makes a captivating, compelling, charismatic presenter that everyone wants to listen to?
Now, this is an even more important question you have to ask yourself, because before you embark on
a journey of improving yourself as a public speaker or video presenter, you want to make sure that
you define to which level you aspire to, right?
What type of person do you want to become?
What type of characteristics do you want to have as a presenter?
Now, I would say that we have to start with confidence, right?
You have to be confident.
That's why I'm giving you a bonus section, just about your core confidence.
Confidence is really everything, right?
If you believe in yourself, if you if you can look in the mirror and legitimately say to yourself,
you know what?
Yes.
You make mistakes from time to time.
You're a human being.
But I appreciate you.
I love you for who you are.
I accept you.
If you can legitimately say that, if you have that level of confidence and acceptance for yourself,
wow, that's a game changer.
It creates this strong foundation and you can see it in speakers when speakers are confident.
I'm not talking about fake confidence.
I'm not talking about being jittery and fake in confidence.
I'm talking about the real calm confidence when you see that it just makes that person so compelling
because it's almost like, well, if that person really if they really believe in themselves, well,
maybe I should believe in them.
Right.
That's what we are thinking, even on the subconscious level.
Definitely.
You got to have that confidence.
Another thing is making your presentation all about your audience.
I'm sure you've seen presentations where the presenter just wants to sell something, right?
Pitching every single time.
Well, I wish I had more time to tell you about it, but you can read about it in my book.
Right.
And then 5 minutes later, well, I wish I had more time to tell you about it, but well, I have the
mastermind and you can sign up for it.
Just like selling, selling, selling.
It's clearly not about the audience, it's about the profit.
Right?
So nobody likes that or sharing too many stories about about themselves.
We talked about it in the previous video.
Right.
But but the point is, you want to make sure that you make it about your audience.
Everything is about your audience, about bringing value to your audience.
Now what else?
What makes a great presenter really think about what else?
What body language, right?
Powerful body language.
You want to make sure that you don't speak just with your mouth.
You wanna make sure that you speak with your body.
I mean, most of our communication is our body language.
And if you don't believe me, one really cool experiment to do is to, you know, turn on some type
of TV show and just switch off the volume.
Just, just just so I even better if you watch a movie because then you have more context.
If you switch off the volume, you will still know exactly what's happening.
People may be saying certain things, but because of their gestures and facial expressions, their eye
contact, you can determine exactly what's happening, right.
You know that that couple is definitely not having a nice conversation.
Right.
So you can see all of that because of the body language.
So as a speaker, you want to have a powerful body language.
Well, the good news is that, of course, we're going to be talking about all of those things in this
course.
Another thing I would say is just utilizing the stage, having this powerful stage presence where you
see a presenter who feels like a fish in the water when they are on a stage.
Right.
Just utilizing the stage, looking at everyone.
Right.
Just feeling like this is my place, this is where I belong.
Right.
When we look at some of the most incredible presenters, that's how they appear on a stage.
Presentation skills are about implanting new ideas in the minds of your audiences.
They are about creating a mindset shift, a perspective shift, right?
That's what it's all about, not just information.
And one of the best ways to do it is through the power of stories.
If you know how to share stories, if you know how to do it powerfully, what happens is that your audience
feels like they are in that story, which you write.
If you share a story, and if you can create a situation where your audience can visualize themselves
in that story, they will never forget it.
They will never forget it.
And there's this emotional aspect as well that you go on a roller coaster of emotions when you attend
a presentation done by an amazing speaker.
So remember when I told you about me running away from a stage right at the beginning and the video
where I introduce myself told you a little bit about who I am.
Well, imagine here are two situations you mention.
I'm on a stage, I'm presenting this.
I'm going to make it very short, by the way.
Imagine I tell you, well, I used to be afraid of presenting.
I even run away from a stage one time.
Oh, it was terrifying.
Anyhow, this is what I learned, right?
I could do it this way.
Or I could tell you something.
Two lines of.
And again, this story could be way longer, way more captivating.
I just don't want to spend too much time on it right now.
But I could say something.
Lines of, you know, I'll never forget the situation where over a decade ago I was supposed to present
in front of 80 to 100 people, and I felt fairly confident.
But 2 to 3 months before my presentation, something weird started happening.
My heart started racing.
I started sweating.
I had thousands of.
What's in my head.
My mouth was dry and I started getting really, really anxious.
I didn't know what was happening and I knew I could see that other person finishing their presentation.
I knew it's my turn to get on a stage and I realized that if I get there, I'm going to pass out from
anxiety.
Wow.
I realize I'm getting a full blown panic attack and I don't know what to do.
I feel trapped and all of those people will be looking at me.
Can you can you relate?
Have you ever had a situation like this?
Have you ever felt this debilitating feeling of anxiety building up in your stomach, spreading to your
entire body and rendering you paralyzed?
You don't know what to do and you feel like a little baby.
You ever had that?
Well, what do you do in that situation?
What do you think?
What did I do?
Did I go to that stage?
Did I present did I push my comfort zone or did I run away?
Right.
You see, I could keep going on and on.
But when I share a story like this now you can visualize it, especially if you can resonate with it.
You can see yourself in that story as I'm talking about my heart beating faster and me feeling the panicky
feeling.
You probably had situations like this before.
You kind of resonate, you know what it feels.
So now you you're basically I'm kidnapping you in a way into my story.
Now you become the part of my story.
So later on, you may not remember other things about my presentation, but you're going to remember
that story.
This is what storytelling is all about.
Now, is this the best way to tell the story?
Of course not.
You know, I'm not the best storyteller out there, but this is just an example to show you how important
storytelling is.
Okay, so what else?
What else makes a great presenter?
Well, I would add to everything that I said before, I kind of touched on that a little bit.
That great presenter always involves the audience, right?
There's always some type of activity that happens with the audience and it could be asking the audience
to raise their hands.
Right, Hey, how many of you had a situation, A or B or C?
Raise your hand.
Right, doing that, maybe putting the audience together, giving them some type of exercise.
But it's always about engaging the audience.
So rather than feeling like you are just a spectator sitting there passively, you feel engaged, you
feel like you are doing something.
And when you look at the signs of learning, how do you learn the best?
Or you learn by doing.
If you just learn passively, you will learn something.
But if you are engaged actively, you will learn much more.
Now, at this point, I'm tempted to give you a bunch of other things that make a great presenter,
but instead of doing that, I want you to really think about it.
And in the next video I'm going to give you a really interesting action step.
I feel like you will be you'll be excited about it.
So I'm going to see you in the next video.


=== EXTRA Section: Perceived Confidence ===


--- POWERFUL ACTION STEP ---

All right.
So I promise I want to give you an action step.
Now, this is going to be very simple.
I said that is going to be exciting, because I have to say, it's one of those things that initially
people don't feel like doing.
And the reason is that we typically don't feel like taking action.
I mean, this is the reality about human beings.
But when you do what I'm going to ask you to do, you will feel incredible.
But not just that.
It's going to actually help you on your journey to become a better presenter.
It will help you now if you want to get anywhere in life, rather than just kind of sleepwalking into
that direction, hoping that you are you're going to get in that direction.
What you want to do is you want to, first of all, figure out where you want to get.
And then based on that ideal outcome, it's easier to design a plan of action.
But not just that.
When you define your ideal outcome, you're going to get more motivated because now you know what is
the true price, even with filming those videos, I mean, you've seen the B-roll, right?
I mean, we haven't captured everything, but it's been raining.
We had crazy weather.
My girlfriend also fell down the stairs.
She spent her ankle.
We had a lot of different weird things happening on this trip.
It's been pretty, pretty crazy.
I have to say a lot of things that just didn't go our way.
So we've been trying to film this for several weeks now and most of the days we just can't do anything
because of some of those situations.
So today when I came out, you know, I met Eduardo here.
It was raining, it was raining.
And I'm thinking to myself, screw this like I, I can't take this anymore.
You know, the weather is just too bad.
I guess I have to accept that on this trip.
I just can't film anything.
But I know what I started thinking about it.
I started thinking, okay, why am I doing what I'm doing?
Like, what is my why?
Why am I filming those videos?
Am I filming them because I like to sit here and talk to the camera?
No, because I'm not talking to the camera.
I'm talking to you.
I'm talking to human beings from all over the world.
And I start thinking about my students.
I started reminding myself of the messages I get from my students, people from different walks of life,
right.
From from actual students, you know, 18, 19, 20 years olds to people who are CEOs and big corporations
and anything in between, people from all over the world.
And I started reminding myself of all of those messages like it, hey, gma, I took your course, really
helped me with X, Y and Z.
And I'm like, It's not about me, it's not about me.
It's about me helping all of those people, right?
And instead of visualizing having a million students on Udemy, now, as I'm filming this, I'm on 270,
I think 2000 students.
Right.
And I think, wow, it would be so great to teach a million people, impact a million people all over
the world.
So as I started getting back into my vision of teaching a million people and helping people from all
over the world, I started getting excited and rather than feeling just, just discouraged by the weather
and all this stuff that's happening and health issues, I'm like, You know what?
No, we got to make it happen.
I don't care if you need to get some umbrellas and call them above the camera.
I mean, pay somebody to call the umbrellas.
I don't care.
We are making this happen.
And maybe that's why now I'm so pumped up.
I'm really excited because I reminded myself of my vision and that's exactly what I want you to do.
Okay, this is super important.
So why am I telling you all of this?
Well, because vision is so important.
Again, if you know where you want to be, if it's exciting, if it's compelling, you're more likely
to push yourself to get there.
So what I want you to do is I want you to think about the type of presenter that you want to become
and forget about all the limitations.
I know there may be this inner voice whispering, Well, but you can't do it.
Is it really possible now anybody else but not you?
Forget about that.
If that comes in, just take it out.
Throw it away.
Right?
Ask yourself, what type of presenter do I want to become in the ideal situation?
So right now we're going to put some music and I want you to take just 30 seconds to think about the
type of presenter that you want to become.
Really feel it.
How confident are you?
Right?
What type of stage presence do you have?
What is the reaction of people when you get out there to present?
If you present in front of your team at a team meeting, just envision how those people will react to
you and vision to the verbal fluency and the body language and charisma and all of that, whatever it
is.
Just visualize yourself as as the ideal future presenter that you want to become.
So how does it feel?
It must feel amazing, right?
Even though it's been, what, 30, 40 seconds?
Just visualizing yourself, getting out there, really performing at your best must feel amazing.
So what I want you to do right now is right after finishing this video, before getting into the next
video, I want you to take a piece of paper.
You can do it on your laptop as well or on your phone.
It's just easier to get distracted going social.
Right.
But I want you to write down the characteristics of your ideal future self and the context of being
an amazing presenter.
Like write all of those things down.
How do you see yourself?
How confident are you?
What is your body language?
How people react to you?
How great is your storytelling?
Write some of those things down and keep visualizing and only once you do it, go to the next video.
But I guarantee you, if you do it later on, you can revisit it and you can keep reminding yourself
of what is the price, because inevitably some of you will have those moments throughout this course
where you will feel like, well, you know, it's a great course.
I'm learning a lot.
But do I really, really want to learn about presentation skills?
I really want to put myself in those uncomfortable situations?
Do I really have it in me?
Is it really possible for me?
Maybe for other people, yes.
But for me, I mean, because you know yourself with all all of your background story, right?
You know, your self with your weaknesses and and past failures.
So we are always hard on ourselves, right?
We tend to underestimate ourselves and overestimate everyone else.
But when you have that vision written down, you can always revisit it and remind yourself, Wow, this
is what I'm striving for.
The prize is worth it.
I'm going to keep taking this course, I'm going to keep practicing, and I will become that amazing
presenter that I know I can and will be.


=== EXTRA Section: Biggest Mistakes to Avoid ===


--- EXTRA: Watch This On The DAY of Your Presentation! ---

All right.
So I'm making this video for those of you who have a presentation to give literally in the next couple
of hours.
So I'm making this video for those of you who feel like you need an extra boost of energy.
You want to get motivated.
You want to change your state.
You want to get into this winter state, and you need some help.
Now, I know from experience that often presents is going to be lonely, right?
You are about to get on a stage.
You don't have any friends around.
You can really talk to anybody and it's hard to get ourselves into the right state.
So this is the purpose of this video.
Now let's get started.
Let's start with some breathing.
You have a presentation to to give soon.
You want to make sure that you get into your center.
So let's start taking deep breaths in and out.
You just keep breathing like this and make sure that when you breathe in, make that breath fairly long.
But when you breathe out, make it even longer and just fully focus on your breathing.
Just fully focus on your breathing.
Don't have to do exactly the way I'm doing it.
Everyone is different, but make it long because it's going to relax you now as you are breathing in.
I want you to imagine that you are breathing and all the courage, all the confidence, all the energy,
just literally imagine.
I know it may sound cheesy, but it works.
You mentioned you are breathing all the courage, all the positive energy into you.
And as you are breathing out, breathe out.
All the anxiety, all the discomfort, all the fear.
So breathe in courage.
I mean, have all of that courage, and then you breathe out all the anxiety.
I just keep going like it.
Now, this is something, by the way, and while you're listening to me, just keep breathing.
And later on, as you are watching the rest of the course, you can you can keep doing this from time
to time just to get yourself into the right state.
But this is something that I encourage you to do also right before the presentation.
So now I'm not sure when you are watching this, probably not right before, maybe 1 to 3 hours before
your presentation.
But right before we get on a stage, you want to do some of that breathe and breathe and encourage.
And just breathe out all the negative energy, all the anxiety, all the fear, right?
When you do that, even just after a couple of those breaths, you will feel way more relaxed.
It's going to be easier for you to get into your center.
Now, I want you to focus on gratitude.
Keep breathing in and out.
But as you are doing it, I want you to switch your focus to what you are grateful for.
And it's not about trying to find as many things as possible now.
It's about the feeling, the feeling that you get.
For example, think about some of your family members and really feel it.
Feel grateful for the fact that they are still alive, that they are healthy, that they are happy.
Right.
Think about your family members.
Think about your friends or or think about your health.
Right.
I'm sure you have various things to be grateful for.
Everyone is different, but I want you to think about those things that really, really make you extremely
grateful.
And as you are breathing in and out, you can close your eyes as well.
And I want you to fully focus on those feelings of gratitude.
Now the reason we are doing this is because when you feel grateful, it's really, really hard to feel
anxious.
And, you know, just by breathing and breathing and confidence and courage and breathing out anxiety
and fear, you feel better when you add the gratitude element.
Wow.
It makes all the difference.
So let's keep doing it for another 30 seconds.
Okay.
Amazing, amazing.
Now keep it brief and dust up.
Breathe in now.
And that sounds a bit weird because as humans we keep breathing, but most of the time is being taken
care of of our autonomic system.
Right.
You don't have to think about breathing now.
We are doing the conscious, deep breathing.
So keep breathing in and slowly breathing out.
So now that we've done some gratitude, I want you to switch gears and I want you to focus on the things
that you can be proud of in your life.
I want you to focus on you because you're going to be out there, you're going to be presenting.
And I want you to remind yourself of how great you already are, and we tend to forget about it.
As I always say, we tend to overestimate other people and underestimate ourselves.
But remind yourself how great you already are because you are great.
You've done a lot of things in your life that are the living proof that you are an amazing human being.
Right?
So think about some of those things.
Think about the things that you could be proud of.
And remember, don't forget to breathe.
Think about the things that make you feel proud.
Think about the good characteristics about yourself.
Maybe you're a good son or a good father or.
Or a good sibling.
Right?
Maybe you are an amazing boss to your employees.
Maybe you help your friend when that person was in need.
Maybe you have a special skill or a special talent, or you are hard working and dedicated.
Or maybe even though you were afraid of presenting, you decided to push yourself.
And you're going to go out there and you're going to nail it and you're going to deliver, right?
Whatever it is.
Just focus on those things that you could be proud of, that you could be really happy about.
I keep breathing.
Now.
How does it feel?
Probably feels amazing, right?
I mean, we did breathing exercises.
We've been doing it for a while now.
We did the gratitude.
We focus on why you should be proud.
We focus why you are already an amazing human being.
So now while you keep breathing and by the way, remember about posture.
I haven't mentioned this before, but remember to have a proper posture, right?
Maybe you cut yourself right now that you are slouching.
If you are slouching, just keep the right posture, open position.
Don't cross your arms open position of power posture.
Now I want you to focus on how your audience will benefit from what you have to say.
What I know is that if you are watching this, it means that you are giving a presentation very soon,
maybe in 40 minutes from now, maybe 2 hours from now.
But you are about to give some type of presentation very soon.
Whatever it is, I want you to focus on the value of that presentation or that talk or that workshop.
What is the value?
How will you benefit your audience?
I want you to really focus on that.
Really?
You really think about it, how their perspective will change after listening to you.
How will they feel after listening to you?
I want you right now to visualize this really positive outcome.
I want you to visualize whoever it is that will be listening to you, feeling happy that they are there.
Literally close your eyes and visualize yourself being in front of all of those people and their happy
faces, satisfied faces.
They are happy that they had an opportunity to be there and to listen to you because you had a lot of
value to deliver.
Visualize all of that now to wrap it up and just keep keep doing the deep breathing.
I'm telling you, I think this video right now is probably around maybe nine or 10 minutes.
And if you've been breathing deeply all this time, I bet that you feel way more relaxed.
It's pretty much like a meditation.
Even though you're watching this video, it's pretty much like a meditation.
So finally, what I want to say, I want to put extra emphasis on some of the points that I've made
in other parts of this course that people want you to be there.
Remember about it.
If you are presenting, it means that people want to get something out of you.
It's not you versus them.
Now you are on the same team because if you do well, if you deliver value, if you end up being great
at your presentation, people will enjoy it more.
So you are on the same team.
They're cheering for you.
Everyone wants you to be at your best.
Remember about it.
Remember that people give you the credit just for going out there.
A lot of people think, Well, what if people reject me?
What if people think that I'm a failure?
Well, no, no, no.
People give you the credit for being out there.
Remember that today when you get in front of all of those people, whatever the setting is, most of
them, what are they going to be thinking in their heads is, wow, I'm happy it's not me presenting
today.
Remember, most people are afraid of presenting.
So just you getting out there.
Well, you're getting a lot of credit just for being out there, whether it's a voluntary presentation,
maybe at a conference or maybe you have to present.
But people still give you the credit just for being there because everyone knows how scary it can be
to be in front of other people.
So remember, people give you the credit.
People want you to be there and remember that even if you feel a bit of stress, you feel the butterflies
in your stomach, you feel some heart beating faster.
That's normal.
That's completely normal.
Every single presenter feels it to some extent, myself included.
You know, when I get in front of a big audience, I'm not anxious, but I feel a little bit of those
butterflies.
Still, after hundreds of speeches, I feel my heart beating a bit faster.
But I enjoy that feeling.
I'm getting excited.
My body tells me we are excited, Jimmy.
We are excited to get out there and to help those people.
Right.
And I get excited and I love that feeling.
That feeling is the feeling of being alive.
If your heart is not beaten, you are not alive.
So welcome that if your heart is beating faster, if you're sweating a little bit, welcome that.
Get excited about it.
Remember, you are there because you have value to offer.
I'm sure that you're going to do well at the end of the video.
You can use some of those breathing exercises right before you get in front of those people, but I'm
sure that you will nail it and let me know how it went.
All the best.
Half fun.


=== EXTRA Section: FAQ - Your Frequently Asked Questions Section UPDATED Regularly! ===


--- EXTRA: How NOT TO Let Your Slides DWARF You during Online Events ---

Never, ever let your slides dwarf you.
The reason I'm talking about it is because when you are doing a regular presentation on a stage, of
course you can have slides.
It's not a big deal.
It's actually very helpful if you design them properly, if you make them very visual, sometimes you
put a really interesting, fascinating, mysterious picture, then that actually triggers a lot of imagination.
You can talk about certain topic, bam, you show a picture of a of a little puppy and people are wondering
why there is a puppy on a screen.
This person is talking about technology, but then you explain why they connect the dots and they're
like, Wow, this is so clever.
This is so cool, right?
So it's actually really nice to use slides, but when you are doing an online event, slides can sometimes
dwarf you literally.
A few days ago I was presenting at an online conference and I was the only person who didn't use slides
and I got some incredible feedback.
And you see, the reason was that people could fully see me, but other other individuals, the way
they presented was a bit different.
They turned on the slides and they kept the slides on.
And imagine when you look at the screen, you mentioned that the full screen was just a slide and then
you could see that person just here in this little corner.
Right.
And the problem is that when you are watching a presentation and you see this huge slide and then another
one and another one all the time, and you can barely see the speaker.
Well, how can the speaker appear charismatic?
How like how can the speaker be engaging if the only thing you see is a static slide?
So sometimes when you present with certain types of software, it can get really tricky because you
have to choose.
People either see you or they see the slides.
Sometimes you can do kind of 50, 50 can split the screen.
You just have to double check with the host, with the conference organizer, how it's going to work.
Sometimes you can split it equally and then it makes sense to have slides because people can see you,
they can see your gesticulation, they can feel your energy, and at the same time they can see the
slides.
But when you know, when you double check with them, they tell you, well, if you turn on the slide,
you barely visible, you have to make a decision.
Now, in some cases, it still makes sense to keep the slides on, especially if you are talking about
something extremely technical.
You want to explain some really complicated process.
Yes, you probably need slides, but if you are presenting about something that's not very technical,
maybe you are talking about big picture strategy or you are sharing your story.
Right, or sharing some type of ideas.
Well, you have to decide.
And in some cases, it actually makes sense not to use slides, or at least if you use slides to minimize
them.
But you have to remember to do that.
This is a tricky thing, right?
Because if you are not used to presenting and then you start your presentation, you may not even remember
to to minimize the slides.
Every time you show a slide, you have to minimize it, then maximize it, minimize it, can get tricky.
That's why sometimes I just prefer not to use slides.
Now you may be wondering, okay, but if I don't use slides, how can I give people all the info that
I need to give them?
And the simple answer is, Well, you can, because your presentation is the most important thing.
Slides are usually crutches, really.
As I said, there are exceptions with extremely technical presentations, but for the most part slides
are crutches.
The reason people use slides is because they need some type of structure for themselves.
As a speaker, you may feel uncomfortable just being in front of the camera presenting for 20, 30,
40, 50 minutes.
You may feel like, whoa, whoa, like, wait a second, I need some crutches because what's going to
happen if I forget what I have to say?
At least when you have slides, if you get weirded out, if you don't know what to say, what people
typically do, they read this slide, you don't know what to say.
You start reading the slide, you press the button, and then you have another slide.
This is the reason why most people use slides, but something tells me that if you are taking this course,
you want to become better, right?
You take in this course because you want to be a powerful presenter, otherwise you wouldn't be watching
those videos.
So if you want to become a powerful presenter, you have to play big enough.
Now, if you play big enough, there is always a risk that you will encounter some challenges, that
you will have some stress, right?
That's normal.
That's that's expected.
You have to push your comfort zone.
But I'm telling you that if you don't use the slides, if you speak directly to the camera, remembering
about all the other tips I talked to you about engaging the audience.
Right.
Testing your equipment before making sure everything works, making sure that you position your camera
in the right way so you are visible from the waist up so people can see your body language, you maintain
open position, you show your palms, you maintain eye contact with the camera, with the lens.
If you do all of that, you will be engaging.
You will be in.
Engaging.
Now, if you are afraid that you may forget what you wanted to say, it's actually very simple.
Remember, you know, the camera will see you, but the lens cannot see what's in front of you.
So if you really have to and actually I recommend you do it just in case, just so you feel comfortable,
you could have some notes.
You can have a whiteboard behind your computer.
This is actually what I did a few days ago.
I was presenting, and even though I knew exactly what I'm talking about and I knew that I'm going to
kind of move left and right, customize my presentation, I still had some notes on a whiteboard behind
the laptop.
Just in case.
Just in case, because you never know.
It just makes you feel more comfortable, right?
So you take a white board or even a piece of paper, you can put it literally on your laptop screen
and you have the main points that you want to talk about.
And this way, as you are talking, you can just use it as your little structure, right?
You have point number one, number two, number five, number ten.
And you just keep going through those points.
Of course, nobody will know that you have those points in there and as you legitimately read things
out.
But I recommend that instead of having a lot of information, you just have the bullet points.
And if you practice many times you will get comfortable with those bullet points.
You will certainly be able to perform at your best during the live presentation.
So this is a very simple yet powerful make sure you implement this advice and obviously it's going to
depend on the situation.
So as I said at the beginning, always whenever you are presenting, just get familiar with the type
of software that you will be using.
Never just show up not knowing what's going to happen.
It's actually another piece of advice that you should take very seriously.
You know, some people, they just show up, they don't care.
They they get a link and they know they have to present that, let's say 6:00 pm.
So 5 minutes until their presentation, they just click on the link and they show up and they have no
idea how it's going to work.
Don't do that.
Don't leave things to the chance.
Always make sure that you tell the conference organizer that you want to do a dry run.
You want to test out the software if they don't do any dry runs, you want to download the software
yourself and you want to learn about it.
You want to figure out what's possible.
And again, if it's possible to share the screen.
5050 Cool.
Use the slides.
If it's not possible, if you know that you will be barely visible, you may as well ditch your slides,
have a bunch of notes, deliver an amazing presentation, use incredible, powerful, charismatic,
positive body language, and captivate your audience.


=== Video Presenting ===


--- Extra (Optional): Showing You the "Backstage" ---

What's going on?
Everyone as Jimmy here, I really hope that you've been enjoying this course so far.
I had a lot of fun filming it and I keep filming more and more videos.
Now, a lot of you are curious about this island of La Palma, so I figured, look, we are in a very
special spot right now.
It's a viewpoint where we can see a lot of places on the island.
And I figured, why not show you a bit of behind the scenes?
Because right now you can see some of those spots where I've been filming this content from the Bird
Eye's View.
So for example, over there you've got the volcano.
So that entire area is called La Cumbre Vieja, but the volcano doesn't have a name.
Maybe at some point it will have a name, but it's been blown up for three months straight.
You can't check footage on YouTube.
It's quite incredible.
I talked to a lot of people here.
They told me that it's been very scary.
A lot of people had to be evacuated because of all the dangerous gases.
And unfortunately, you know, the lava from the volcano claimed a lot of houses as well.
So on the one hand, it's very sad.
On the other hand, it shows you the true power of nature.
So does the volcano.
Now, when we look over there, that's a place called El Paso, actually, that's where Eduardo is from,
the filmmaker behind the camera.
So he's from there.
That's the little town over there on the hill.
It's one of my favorite places on the island, especially that spot on the left side of all of those
houses.
See those scattered trees?
That's where I filmed a lot of the videos for this particular course.
One of my favorite places.
Now, this area over here is called Los Banos.
It's a city called Los Banos, the Dana.
I'm actually staying at Airbnb right now in that area.
And also this is one of my favorite places because you have all of those mountains surrounding the city.
And then finally on that side of the island, we can't see properly because the sun is hitting the lens.
But that's the area called CASA Court, which is the most sunny part of the island.
Sometimes on the other side of La Palma, it's raining, it's stormy.
And when you drive through the tunnel, you come to this side, it's completely sunny.
It's actually quite unbelievable.
And right now, just to show you what we're going to show, this little I don't actually water this.
It's like a really cool little building over here.
And we plant this film some videos here as well if the wind allows because because it's pretty windy.
So this is it.
I just wanted to show this to you because, you know, typically over the years of filming content,
it's been almost a decade now of me filming my courses.
A lot of my students keep asking me, Hey, I'm curious, why are you filming all of those courses?
Right.
I've been traveling all over the world.
I filmed a lot of content and Thailand and Vietnam and Greece as well, all types of places.
And now since I'm here with Eduardo filming all over this beautiful island, I just tried to take an
opportunity to show you a bit of a back stage.
I hope that you enjoyed it.
And let's get back into the content.


=== Slides and Visuals ===


--- When Presentation Should Become a Conversation? ---

Have you ever had a situation when you went to a meeting and it was a meeting just with one person,
Maybe it was you and your colleague and that one person who tried to offer you something, right.
And that person started presenting to you literally stood up and started delivering a presentation.
Well, today I would like to talk about X, Y, and Z, and this is why you should consider our product.
The benefits of our product are A, B, and C, Right?
And you feel baffled because it's just you and that person in the room, maybe one or two more people.
And the reason I'm making this video is because I want you to avoid this situation.
I want you to consider the fact that whenever you are given a presentation to just one, two, maybe
three people, it's not a presentation.
It always becomes a conversation.
Okay.
Now if you have ten people in the room, it's slightly different, right?
You may want to present, you may want to pitch, you may want to do it in a different way.
Still maintaining a conversational tone.
You want to involve people, right?
We don't have a lot of people.
You want to involve them.
But when you have just one, two, or maybe three people, you always want to turn it into conversation.
Otherwise it just feels weird.
It feels awkward.
It's kind of like and again, I'm I'm pretty sure we have situations like this and it's pretty bizarre
when you are in a small room and you have a presenter and there may be five people sitting there or
maybe eight people sitting there and that person still uses a microphone like, let's see, there's
a microphone with speakers.
And it's just bizarre.
It's like it's surreal.
It's almost like, What are you doing?
We are in a little room, Everyone can hear you.
Why are you using the microphone?
Are you trying to, like, take some branding photos?
What's going on here?
That's right.
And it happens whenever it happens.
I just I can't just help myself and I just laugh.
I laugh because it looks pretty funny.
So don't be that person.
Don't be that person.
Now, I apologize if I offend you now, you may be thinking, Well, this is too obvious.
Why are you even talking about it?
But all types of people are taking this course.
And if you don't have a lot of experience with presenting, with communicating to groups, you may not
be aware of it.
And that's completely fine.
So make sure that you don't fall into this pitfall.
And again, whenever you present to one, two, three, maybe even four people, rather than just presenting
in a typical manner, always try to turn it more into a conversation.


=== EXTRA Section (updated frequently): Additional Videos & Answering Your Questions ===


--- Thank You & Announcement ---

Hey, it's Jimmy.
The rain here.
And I just want to say thank you so much for being one of my Udemy students.
Now, in this video, I would like to share with you some important updates.
Now, first of all, I'm making a lot of bonus material.
All right?
So I'm here in the studio and I'm also traveling to the Canary Islands to create more updates for my
existing courses.
Now, as you probably noticed, I've been creating a lot of new material over the last two years, and
when you go to the course dashboard, you will see that there are a lot of extra videos, summary,
PDFs, etc..
Now another thing I want to share with you, something that really warms my heart, and it's one of
the milestones that I've been waiting for.
So recently I became an official Udemy instructor partner, and this is one of those things that really
makes me feel grateful because after all those years on the platform, this is the formal recognition
by Udemy that I'm one of the top instructors and that I really do my best to provide a value to my audience.
So this makes me very, very happy.
And I couldn't do it without you.
Now, another beautiful milestone I want to share with you is getting over 60,000 top ratings on Udemy.
Okay, so the average rating is 4.6 out of five, and I've got more than 60,000 of those ratings thanks
to you.
So I want to say thank you for taking my courses.
Thank you for trusting in my content and thank you so much for sharing your feedback and I really appreciate
it.
And whenever I get messages both on Udemy and on social media, it just warms my heart because I do
what I do to create impact.
I do what I do because of the sense of contribution.
I want to help as many people as possible.
And again, I couldn't do it without you.
It's it's like dancing tango or salsa.
You can really do it by yourself.
You need to have a partner.
So you are my partners in crime, and I want to let you know that I will be making more of those videos.
So if you have any suggestions, if you want me to make any specific updates, if you have any questions
for me, please let me know.
Whenever I do those filming trips and whenever I come to the studio, I don't just try to imagine randomly
what I'm going to be talking about.
Primarily what I do is I dig into my reviews, I dig into the private messages I get from my students.
And based on the feedback from my audience, I create new content.
So again, if there is anything you want me to talk about in those videos, please let me know.
And finally, if you don't follow me on Instagram and LinkedIn, I highly recommend that you do it.
So first of all, on LinkedIn, I post a lot of business type of content, but also on Instagram, I
post a lot of behind the scenes and from time to time I go live and I interact with the audience there.
So if you want to have a live interaction, if you want to see some of the behind the scenes, then
please join me on my Instagram at Jimmy.
Right?
So thank you so much for watching this video.
I really appreciate you and I will continue doing my best to create incredible content for all of you
so I can help you with improving your lives.


=== My FREE Nov 2025 GIFT for You: Original Guided Meditations made by me ===


--- Optional: Why I Choose Exotic Locations to Make Videos for You? (FAQ) ---

Hey, what's going on?
I really hope that you've been enjoying this course so far.
And I want to answer one of the most common questions I get.
So, Jimi, why do you film in locations like these ones?
And the simple reason is that I always want to give you an amazing experience, right?
So I used to film in studios back in the day, but quickly I realized that it gets boring, right?
I mean, for how long can you look at someone in a boring studio?
And because I'm a traveler, I love traveling.
I've been doing it full time for the last ten years while running my business.
I figured, why not blend traveling to all types of places all over the world with creating educational
content?
And this is why I do those filming trips to places like Iceland or the Canary Islands, and we are planning
more trips to even Antarctica and crazy places like that because I want you to learn.
But at the same time I want you to really enjoy the journey in terms of the visuals.
You know, some of the feedback I got is that people are usually curious what's going to happen in the
next video or in the next section.
Sometimes there is a waterfall, but sometimes there is some crazy cliff or or the ocean or a forest.
And from my experience, when I watch videos like this, it just makes me feel better.
You know, it propels creativity.
And this is why I want you to be a part of this experience.
I want to, in a sense, take you on some of my journeys with me.
So, so far the feedback has been really great.
I hope that you personally are enjoying those videos and this is just a spontaneous one to explain why
we do what we do.
It's all about increasing the experience for you.


=== My GIFT For You: Full Leadership Course Added as an EXTRA! ===


--- Nov 2025 Extra: How OWNING Your Weirdness Will Boost Your Confidence ---

The difference between people who believe in themselves and who don't believe in themselves, is that
those who are confident, who have high level of self-esteem own their weirdness.
Okay, we're all weird when you actually think about human beings.
When you think about the world we live in.
It's a pretty crazy world, isn't it?
Right?
There's so many things that we still don't understand as humans.
And, you know, we often don't think about it, but just the fact that half of the population creates
little humans, right?
Women create little humans.
When you really think about it, it just it just boggles your mind how all of this is possible.
So we are all different.
We all have different identities.
We all like different things.
We are different.
And this is the beauty of this world.
Whenever I go somewhere and I see people who dress up differently, who express themselves differently,
different skin colors, different cultures, different beliefs, I love that this is what makes this
world exciting.
Now, the difference between people who are confident and who are not confident is that confident people
own their weirdness.
Okay, you gotta own who you are, whatever it is.
And let me give you an example from my life.
So, you know, back in the day, my identity, my self-image was very negative.
Right.
I would preoccupy myself with my crooked teeth, with the fact that, um, I was a very shy Polish kid
with no money, with elf ears.
And you see, I still have my elf ears.
But the difference is that right now I own them.
I'm like, sometimes I even say it when I meet people.
It's like, oh, check out my elf ears.
You know, like, I, I joke about it because honestly, I don't care.
This is me.
This is how I was born.
And let me just own this.
Okay.
Back in the day.
And I still do this, by the way, but especially back in the day.
I would mispronounce a lot of English words.
Some of you actually don't know this, but English is not my native language.
If you are native English speaker, you know for sure.
But if you're not native, you probably a lot of you don't know.
But I had to learn English myself when I was 15 or 16 years old.
My English was really terrible.
Right.
We were learning English at school, but it was a very basic level, so I had to teach myself.
I had to embark on this crazy journey of getting obsessed with English.
So I went to a British university and I would often make like random mistakes.
I would, for example, say that they're mine instead of determine, right?
I would say determine.
I would say determine or instead of saying intertwine, I would say intertwine, right?
And later on, obviously I've been practicing my English, trying to get better and better and better.
But even as I started creating videos on YouTube, I remember I'm gonna link it up here so you can see
it, because it's pretty funny.
Uh, there's one particular situation when I was recording a video about eye contact, and I wanted
to say that I wanted to use a phrase that, look, when you look, um, directly into somebody else's
eyes.
Right?
Eyes.
You may feel uncomfortable, but because of my accent, it sounded as if I said, if you look directly
into somebody else's --.
Right.
So let's link up this video right now.
So you see what I'm talking about.
and you probably saw it.
Maybe you experienced it yourself.
You know, you look directly into somebody's eyes and you feel a little bit uncomfortable.
You feel some strange feeling deep in your stomach.
You can't explain it, but you feel, you know, you feel overwhelmed.
You look directly into somebody's eyes.
Now.
You look directly into somebody's eyes.
Now you look directly into somebody's eyes.
Okay.
Welcome back.
Pretty crazy video, right?
Now, the funny thing is that that video got almost a million views.
So almost a million people saw me making that mistake.
People even joked about it in comments.
But you know what?
It's fine, because nowadays I realized, well, this is who I am.
I have my accent, I'm originally from post-Communist Poland and I'm gonna own it.
This is who I am.
This is what makes me me, right.
So you gotta own who you are.
Maybe you also have accent issues, right?
Maybe you look differently than everyone else, right?
Maybe there's something peculiar about you.
And it causes you to not to feel good in your own skin.
Maybe when you look in the mirror, you just notice that one thing, whether it's a massive nose or
also elf ears or whatever it is, right?
Maybe you focus on that, but what I want you to do is I want you to own those things.
I want you to realize this is what makes you unique.
And ultimately, it's that uniqueness of all the people on this planet that makes this life so much
fun.
So please own your uniqueness.
Own your weirdness.
In fact, this is something that connects you with other people because nobody could resonate with perfection,
right?
Oftentimes we think secretly we want to be perfect, right?
We feel like, well, I hope, I wish that I could be perfect.
I wish that I could go out there and just not make any mistakes and have no flaws.
But in reality, if that even happened, which is not possible, no one would be able to relate to you.
No one would be able to connect with you because no one can connect with perfection or the idea of perfection.
So again, on your imperfections, because in reality, they bond you with other people and they make
you unique.
They make you who you truly are.
And that's beautiful.


=== Cultivate Resilience & Thrive in Times of Change and Crisis ===


--- Why This Section is Beneficial even for those who are Confident ---

Welcome to this section about overcoming your fear of any type of presenting, whether it's getting
on a stage, speaking in front of a team gathering or maybe even presenting in front of a video camera,
whatever it is, we will address your fears.
Now, this section is optional, and the reason is that everyone has a different situation.
Now, some of you are watching this course primarily because you want to overcome your fear, you want
to build confidence, you want to become that confident and charismatic.
Presenter But I'm aware that there are some people watching this course not because you want more confidence,
not because you want to overcome fear, but perhaps because you want to become more captivating.
You want to learn about storytelling or hosting or what to do after your presentation.
So whatever your situation is, I mean, you know, your self, the best you decide, you be the judge
of it.
But what I would say is if you still experience at least some type of fear of presenting, I highly
recommend that you watch this section.
So in this section I'm going to share with you some of the most important strategies, tools and hacks
that will help you to overcome your fear of presenting.
And actually, there is a little disclaimer.
When I say overcome your fear, I don't mean fully eradicate your fear because it doesn't work like
that.
You know, fear is one of those things that it's pretty much impossible to fully get rid of it.
You can learn how to dance with it, but there will always be a little bit of it present.
Even myself, you know, I've been doing hundreds of different presentations all over the world and
still there are those moments sometimes when a little bit of fear comes out of nowhere.
The difference is that I learn how to deal with it.
I learn how to dance with it.
I learn how to take some of that little bit of fear and turn it into excitement.
All right.
Anyhow, it's going to be a great section.
I hope that you'll enjoy it.
And let's get started.


=== Why & How To Empower People as a Leader ===


--- The F. Word ---

So in the introduction, I told you that you cannot fully eliminate your fear.
You just have to learn how to dance with it.
Then I want to expand on this topic in this video, because a lot of people think, Well, I just want
to get rid of fear.
I don't want to feel any fear.
And what happens is the moment they experience a bit of anxiety, a bit of fear, they freak out.
And it happens to a lot of people, right?
They're trying to improve their presentation skills.
They're working on their confidence.
They are doing affirmations and they work on their body language and breathing techniques and all of
the other things that we are talking about in this course as well, and some of the bonus sections.
And then it happens, right?
They have to deliver presentation and pum pum pum pum pum.
The heart starts beating faster and to realize, wow, I actually feel a little bit afraid what's going
on.
I don't have control.
And that feeling that they are losing control makes them lose even more control.
It's like this self-fulfilling prophecy in a way.
It's this downward spiral.
Because what happens very often is that you feel like, Well, I'm a bit afraid, but that feeling of
being afraid scares you.
So now you are scared of being scared and then you're scared of being scared of being scared.
It's very easy to downward spiral.
So instead of, you know, pushing yourself into that corner, what I always tell people is that, well,
you have to acknowledge that you don't get rid of all the fear.
You just learn how to dance with it.
So when some of those emotions come up before the presentation, right, you feel a bit afraid, you
feel some anxiety, you feel your heart beating faster.
Well, first of all, acknowledge that it's normal that we all have this fight or flight or freeze response
just built in that that's how we are all created.
Right.
As humans, we have we have this this response whenever something happens that a perceived danger,
we either freeze, we don't do anything, which is usually the worst thing you can do.
Just freeze like the deer in the headlights or you fight.
In this case, you go out there and you present or you just run away, right?
So we have those responses built in.
It's something that's natural.
And once we recognize that this is how we are wired and there's really no way to go around it, you
in a way start getting more comfortable with being uncomfortable, right?
So for example, nowadays and I have those situations sometimes, for example, when I do an open ocean
swim, right, sometimes you feel this anxiety building up, right?
Maybe you see something underneath the water or something weird.
And suddenly the images from, from, from the jaws come back, right?
And you start feeling a bit anxious.
Well, I remind myself the first thing I do is I remind myself, okay, Jimmy, focus on your breathing.
Whatever is happening now, this is normal, right?
Okay.
You saw something.
Your heart is beating faster.
This is completely fine.
Your body is just getting ready for some type of action.
But this is fine.
Like, don't worry about it.
And the moment I recognize that this is completely fine, in a weird way, it calms me down.
So it makes me feel more comfortable with being uncomfortable in this situation.
I wanted to make video about it.
I feel like this is very important because once we switch that mindset from I got to eliminate fear
completely to No, I just have to learn how to dance with it.
Then whenever that fear shows up, rather than you feeling like a failure, because a lot of people
tell me this, they feel like a failure.
They feel like, well, I've been working on myself for all this time and I still feel fear.
Therefore, I'm a failure.
No, you're not a failure.
You are just a human being.
Once you recognize that, you get familiar with it, you accept it.
It's much easier to deal with whatever shows up.


=== Effective Leadership and Confidence & Self-Esteem: How To Build Confidence ===


--- Fundamental Mindset Shift to Feel More Comfortable on any Stage ---

One of the best ways to alleviate some of your fears when you get on a stage is to remind yourself that
people in the audience give you the credit just for getting out there.
And you may think, Well, how would that help me?
Why would reminding myself of that help me in any way?
But when you really think about it, it helps you a lot because you realize that most people in the
audience wouldn't want to be in your situation.
Most people in the audience give you the credit just for being out there and speaking out because they
themselves wouldn't want to put themselves in that position.
In fact, to really portray how true this is, let me tell you what's been happening to me all over
the world, presenting for different audiences.
So whenever I talk about overcoming the fear of public speaking, I tend to engage my audience.
I feel like when I engage your audience, you you can really show them what you are talking about.
And often what I like to do is I literally like to tell people, hey, like, be honest with me.
If I told you right now that I can't finish the speech because I have to go there as an emergency,
and together with the organizers, we will pay 1000 or 2000, 5000.
Now, I use different amounts depending where I present.
And we told you, we pay you this amount of money to get on a stage and present instead of me.
How many of you would feel comfortable doing it?
How many of you would actually take the money and say, Yes, I'm getting to this stage, I'm going
to deliver a presentation, just raise your hand.
How many of you?
And almost nobody raises their hand.
Now, of course, when I do those four experiments, obviously some people could lie.
They could raise their hands just to look cool and look confident.
But most people don't raise their hands.
In fact, sometimes I would go as far as tricking my audience into believing that I'm going to take
some of them on a stage.
So, for example, I would get into my audience, I would start walking through the crowd, jump off
the stage and just walk for my audience, look around and say, You know what?
I need ten people to join me on a stage.
But rather than picking volunteers, I want to look at you and I want to pick people who seem really,
really stressed.
Right.
And I would usually wait and build attention.
And then I would tell people, look, I'm just kidding.
I'm not going to pick anybody.
And there's a reason why I do it.
I use it to make a point, but, you know, it's crazy.
Most people seem terrified.
And when I talk to them afterwards, you know, everyone is laughing.
This nervous laughter of like, oh, so glad we don't have to get on a stage.
I ask them, like, How did it feel?
How many of you actually wanted to get on the stage?
And usually it's just a couple of people like imagine a 500 person audience and maybe five people say,
Yeah, I would like to jump on a stage, but the rest doesn't want to do it.
Why am I telling you this?
I'm telling you this.
So you really make it clear in your mind that most people don't want to be on a stage.
Most people are terrified of presenting.
Most individuals wouldn't want to switch places with you when you are presenting and when you remind
yourself of it.
And when you remind yourself that people sitting in the audience, they are looking at you like, Wow,
that person is a leader.
That person is speaking up, that person is doing something I'm not able to do.
I wouldn't want to do.
They really give you the credit just for trying to give you the credit, just for going out there remembering
this simple action of just reminding yourself of it will switch your mindset a little bit.
It's going to help you to alleviate a lot of that anxiety and fear that comes up before your presentations.


=== Communication Skills in Leadership: How To Communicate Like a Leader? ===


--- Managing Your FOCUS ---

One of the biggest mistakes people make is that they overly focus on themselves and on what they feel
inside and can probably resonate with this.
You had a situation, maybe not even in the context of presenting, but any type of social situation
that pushes your comfort zone.
And often we tend to overly focus on how we feel inside, right?
If you feel some anxiety, you feel your heart beating.
You may be thinking, well, I feel my heart beating.
I'm a bit stressed out.
I'm wondering how many people can see that I'm stressed.
As you are about to say something, you may be wondering, Well, what if I say something that's going
to sound stupid, right?
And maybe even as you are speaking, you have this kind of second track running in your head saying,
well, what if whatever it is that you are saying sounds really, really strange and people people will
reject you and they will not like what you have to say.
Right.
We will have those moments.
We have those different tracks running in our heads.
We keep overthinking.
Right.
A good example is when you do the circle of introduction.
So let's say you have a meetup with with ten or 15 new people and somebody says, well, why don't we
take take some time to introduce ourselves.
We will do this little round of introductions and maybe you are the last person.
And as everyone else is introducing themselves, you are not even listening.
Right?
And you can probably resonate with this.
We've all done this.
I know I've done this myself so many times.
So you are the last person.
You are not listening.
You're just thinking in your head, I'm freaking out.
I'm freaking out.
I'm going last.
What will I say?
And you're running for scenarios.
Well, should I say this?
Maybe I should say dat.
What if this is too little?
What if this is too much and you're just overthinking everything and then you are sometimes overthinking
your self.
Overthinking, right?
So you're zooming out and you see yourself and you're like, Why are you overthinking?
And now you start overthinking that.
And we've all had those situations and it's terrible because those moments render you paralyzed.
You just don't know what to do.
And a lot of people and I help a lot of people like this, they get to the point where they question
the simplest things that they have to say, you know, to the point where if I say, hey, let's all
do a little circle and each one of us will say, Hi, my name is, and that's it.
You don't need to speak.
You just say Hi.
My name is Jimmy.
Hi, my name is John.
Hi, my name is Jenny.
Right.
That's that's all we have to say.
They are still afraid that they will mispronounce their names or that they will sound stupid.
Right.
And objectively speaking, there is nothing that can go wrong.
Right?
If your name is Hank or your name is Jessica, what can possibly go wrong?
Just say, hey, my name is Hank.
My name is Jessica.
But in your head, it's so easy to put so much importance on that situation that you just think, Well,
what if I mispronounced my name?
What if I what if my voice sounds squeaky?
What if what if I lose my voice right?
What if I start stuttering?
So we have this internal dialogue that is really screwing us up.
So a lot of it has to do with overthinking and overly focusing on what we feel inside and focusing on
ourselves.
So especially in the context of public speaking, whether it's doing a presentation, a workshop or
maybe video presenting or addressing your team, whatever it is, it's so easy to fall into this trap
of running that that second track somewhere here at the back of your head that tells you, Hey, what
if you say something dumb?
What if people will not accept what you have to say?
What if people don't like you?
What if you have a squeaky voice?
What if this?
What if that?
Bam, bam, bam, bam.
And you get bombarded with all of this and you just feel paralyzed, right?
So it's important to get out of that trap.
And I know it's easier said than done, but once you start recognizing that you are getting into that
trap of just overthinking everything that you are doing, everything that you're about to say, what
you want to do is you want to break the pattern.
Ideally, you want to take a few deep breaths.
Just I just think a few deep breaths.
Okay.
And what you want to do is you want to focus on the external.
You don't focus on yourself.
You don't focus on how you look.
And, oh, maybe your shirt is creased.
Maybe something's wrong with your dress.
You don't focus on that.
You want to focus on the external environment, specifically on whoever it is that you are addressing
and the value that you are providing.
You want to focus on that.
You want to focus on the big picture.
So I want to give you a little thought experiment that will really make you think I have a feeling that
is going to change the way you perceive this entire situation, because a lot of people say, well,
people are afraid of public speaking more than they are afraid of death.
Right.
Like a lot of people say that.
But I feel like it all depends on why you do what you do.
Right?
If you really have a strong purpose and you really present in front of others because you want to influence
them.
You want to lead them.
You want to.
Bring some type of value to their lives.
If you focus on that, that's bigger than you or me or anybody else, right?
You've got to make your purpose bigger than yourself.
So here's a thought experiment.
Imagine that you are at a big conference with a lot of CEOs, of massive companies, a lot of rich people.
And you're not presenting they're you are not.
And the audience is huge.
And there's a lot of rich people in that audience.
And you mentioned that one of your family members has some type of disease that's really dangerous and
it requires a very expensive treatment.
But in fact, if you don't get that treatment, your family member will most likely die very soon.
Right.
And the treatment is very, very expensive.
Hundreds of thousands of dollars.
That's what it costs.
Unfortunately, you don't have that kind of money.
The insurance is not covering it.
So if you don't get the money, if you don't find a way to get the money, your beloved family member
will die.
That's it.
So now you are that conference and the host comes up to you and says, Hey, listen, I know about this
situation with your family member.
It's very, very sad.
You know what?
The next speaker will be late.
So what I want to do is I want to give you an opportunity.
There are a lot of rich people there and a lot of them do charity stuff.
I'm going to give you a couple of minutes to take the microphone to get on that stage and to try to
convince them to help your family member.
Those people have the money and they are willing to help.
They are already donating to charities.
And I'm giving you the opportunity to go there on that stage with a microphone and convince them to
give you their money now.
And what do you think about it?
My question for you is.
Would you be stressed out about it?
Would it stress you?
And the answer is in the vast majority of cases, yes, of course, it's a stressful situation.
But here's another question that's more important.
What are you stressed about in that specific situation?
What would stress you the most?
Would you stress about the fact that maybe your tie doesn't look nice?
Would you stress about the fact that maybe you are not dressed up for the occasion?
After all, it's a spontaneous thing you didn't plan to present.
Maybe you're not dressed up properly.
We just stress about that.
We just stress about the fact that maybe you think in your head that you are not good looking enough
or you don't have enough stage presence, or maybe you don't have the right voice to present.
Would you stress about that?
Or would you stress about the fact that, well, what's going to happen if you don't get enough money
for your beloved family member?
What if you don't deliver?
What if you go out there and nobody gives you that money and your family member ends up dying?
Most probably you would stress about this.
You wouldn't care about how you look, how you sound, what people think about you.
You wouldn't care that some people may reject you.
Some people may think that it's kind of weird that you are doing this pitch at a conference.
You probably wouldn't care about that because something much bigger is at stake.
The life of your family member.
If somebody you love that is at stake, that is what matters.
The purpose is much bigger than you or myself or anybody else.
It's much bigger.
It's life, right?
Bringing life, bringing hope to someone else.
That is the purpose.
So you wouldn't stress about any of this other surface stuff.
You just wouldn't.
And I'm giving you this thought experiment so you realize, you know, that very often in our lives
when we are getting out there to interact with other people, it is presenting or just social interactions
or business networking.
We put so much importance on things that don't really matter.
We are afraid of rejection, we are afraid of failure, we are afraid of looking bad.
But does it really matter?
Like in the grand scheme of things, right?
Does it really matter?
It doesn't.
And I feel like when you really think about it deeply, you'll realize that a lot of those fears that
you have are just an illusion.
A lot of those fears you have are just an illusion.
So again, when you get out there in front of an audience, it may not be a speech to help somebody
to save their life, but whatever it is, you are there because you want to bring value.
If you focus on bringing value, if you focus on how you will help your audience versus how you look
or how bad it can go for you.
Now, if you focus externally on your audience, you have so much more confidence because again, it's
no longer about you.
You become just the messenger, right?
You become the messenger for something much bigger than you.
So really think about us in the context of your life and let me know what you think.


=== Body Language in Leadership: The Non-Verbal Signals of a Powerful Leader ===


--- Correct Breathing: Why it's CRUCIAL for Alleviating Anxiety ---

In this video, we'd like to talk to you about a special medicine that will help you to feel much better
before presenting, but actually in any other situation in life.
And that's
because breathing.
Breathing is a medicine.
I know it may sound a bit cheesy, but I did it on purpose because it really makes sense.
You know, often we try to look at pharmacological solutions to our issues, not realizing that the
real medicine is already within us.
And yes, breathing is the medicine.
Now, you may think well, but we all breathe all the time.
Respiratory muscles keep working every single minute of every single hour of every single day.
They never stop.
Right?
You have your autonomic system that just keeps making those muscles work.
So you keep breathing whether you know it or not.
But the reality is that we forgot how to breathe properly.
A lot of us just just don't breathe the way we should be breathing, especially in a stressful situation.
So I'm sure we had moments when you were presenting on a stage or you were maybe negotiating something
or perhaps having a really tough conversation with someone and you had this shallow breath, right?
Maybe hyperventilating a little bit and you could feel your heart beating faster and you couldn't.
It felt like you couldn't get enough oxygen in you.
And I feel like the problem is we often assume that things are the way they should be and we have no
control, but we absolutely have control over our breathing.
So rather than just leaving breathing to chance, I feel like we should take more control in terms of
how we breathe, because you can use the power of breathing to make yourself calmer, more relaxed before
you give a presentation, but also while you are on a stage, it's really powerful.
So a lot of us just engage in very shallow breathing.
But when you breathe, you essentially try to get more oxygen and get rid of carbon dioxide.
Is the exchange of gases, right?
You bring it all to in and you are getting rid of CO2.
So this exchange keeps happening all the time.
Now, when we don't engage in the breathing, when we when we just have this shallow breath, especially
when we are in a stressful situation, like, like getting on a stage presenting.
Now what happens is, you know, that exchange of O2 and CO two is not very efficient.
Right.
And often what happens is we either breathe way too fast in a shallow manner, like, right.
This often happens, especially when your heart is beating very fast, when you are stressed out and
you can feel lightheaded and you find it hard to focus.
And one of the things that often happens when you get a panic attack is that you forget to breathe.
Right?
It sounds weird, but but this is often what happens.
Or you don't forget it, but you almost feel like you are unable to breathe.
Now, for example, what happened to me in the past was, you know, you get a panic attack in a social
situation while you are speaking.
So you start speaking.
And as you create sentences, normally you would take a breath and you take it easy.
But because you get stressed out, you speak very fast and it feels awkward to take a breath.
So you just keep talking.
But when you keep talking without taking a breath, guess what?
The CO2 is building up.
And when you have a lot of carbon dioxide in you, it causes a lot of stress.
It causes a lot of anxiety.
Right.
If you've ever done breathing exercises, for example, holding your breath, you know what I'm talking
about.
For example, I like to practice the Emhoff method.
I do a lot of ice baths, and before I do ice baths, I do this really cool sequence.
I'm not going to talk about it in this video.
It's beyond the the scope of this particular video.
But to make the long story short, one of the exercises you do is you fully scale and then you keep
holding your breath, right.
And what happens is as the carbon dioxide builds up in your lungs, you start feeling this strange,
anxious feeling.
And towards the end, as you're trying to hold your breath, you feel this full blown anxiety.
It really feels it really feels scary, right?
It feels like the entire world is about to end this this feeling of impending doom.
And it happens because of all of that CO2 building up in your lungs.
So what I noticed is that a lot of people, they just they just forget to breathe.
Therefore, CO2 goes up, therefore they feel more anxious, so they forget to breathe even more.
And as you can see, it's so easy to enter this downward spiral.
So I feel like if you want to become a confident, calm presenter, when I say calm, I don't mean like
this speaking in a very slow way.
I'm not talking about that.
I'm talking I'm talking about being calm while being charismatic.
Right.
But just staying calm.
Deep inside.
Being grounded.
Being balanced.
If you want that, well, you have to learn how to breathe and feel like the best way to start is just
to be conscious of it.
Probably a lot of you watching this now, maybe this is the first time in a long time or perhaps ever
that you are thinking about consciously taking control of your breathing.
Right.
I know myself that many years ago I wasn't even thinking about breathing.
It's just something that you see.
Well, you breathe because you breathe.
Right.
You're born one day, take a breath, and then you just breathe.
And that's it.
Your autonomic nervous system takes care of the rest.
You don't have to think about it.
But I realized that when you start working on your breathing, when you focus on deep breathe, and
when you remind yourself even setting reminders on your phone to just every day focus on your breathing,
deep breaths in and then long breaths out.
When you do that well, on the on the grand scale of the macro scale, you become better at breathing.
But also on the micro scale in the moment, as you are taking deep breaths, you make that exchange
of gases more efficient.
Right.
In terms of you getting O2 in and getting rid of CO2, you make it more efficient.
You feel calmer when you breathe deeply.
You can also lower your heart rate as you are breathing out if your if your breath out is longer than
than when you breathe in, if you keep doing it consistently, you will eventually lower your heart
rate.
You will feel calmer.
You will feel less stressed.
It all works.
Okay, so what I encourage you to do is on the macro scale in your everyday life, just just don't forget
to do breathing exercises.
It could be as simple as just breathing in and out, very slowly, taking deep breaths in with your
diaphragm, the brain, and then breath out.
Right.
But then also when you are getting out there to present, rather than falling into the trap of either
hyperventilating or forgetting to breathe, just focus on taking deep breaths.
For example, recently when I was presenting in Dubai, I was standing let you on the side of the stage
waiting for the host to introduce me.
And it was a fairly long it was super nice but fairly long introduction and people were already looking
at me, right?
So people look at the halls, then they look at me and I'm standing there just waiting to get on a stage.
That's usually the moment when speakers feel feel more stressed because, you know, things are about
to get real.
You're about to get on the stage.
But what I was doing is I was just smiling and I was focusing on the fact that, as I always say in
those videos, you know, I want to deliver value to my audience.
I'm here for a reason, but I also focus on my breath breathing in.
And out, not just with the chest, but also with the diaphragm right in and slowly out.
And I just focused on that and that kept me so calm that when Ronan told me, hey, welcome, Jimmy,
Lorraine, welcome on a stage.
When I got on the stage, I felt as calm as a cucumber.
I was excited, but I was also calm and I could address my audience in a confident manner.
And that created the context for the entire presentation.
But it was things to breathe.
And also I had situations in my life when I would be presenting on a stage and at some point I would
get triggered.
You know, we all have those triggers where something happens.
Maybe you look at somebody and maybe they are just looking at their phone and in reality, maybe they
are taking notes and they are super engaged.
But perhaps you have this thought.
Well, they are looking at their phones because they don't like my presentation and bam, your internal
dialogue kicks in and suddenly you lose your composure.
I'm sure you can resonate with this, right?
We all have those situations when we lose a little bit of composure.
And again, in those moments, it's easy to fall into the trap of either believing too fast or forgetting
to breathe, speaking super fast.
When you remember about the importance of breathing, what you have to do in those situations is you
slow down, you slow down, you take a little pause, you take a deep breath, and that's when you continue.
Now, a lot of people tell me, Well, Jimmy, but if I do it on a stage, everybody will notice.
People will think that I'm getting weirded out.
People think that I'm stressed.
If I take a pause to take a deep breath, that's what you think inside of your head.
But that's not the reality.
Nobody will think that you are stressed.
In fact, when you are on a stage, when you take a little pause to take a deep breath, now people
pay attention.
People think you are doing it on purpose.
Sometimes I do it literally because I want to put more emphasis on the next point.
Right.
You ever notice that when a speaker keeps talking, talking, talking, and then they make a pause,
now you listen.
Now you curious what happened?
They're right.
They break the pattern.
There's a pattern, and then it breaks.
Now everyone is paying attention.
So when you're on a stage, when you're presenting.
When you realize that maybe you're speaking too fast or maybe you forgot to breathe, or you are breathing
in a shallow manner, just stop.
Just stop and just.
Take a deep breath and smile.
Take a deep breath and smile and continue.
And it's going to calm you down.
I can guarantee you that.
Now, what I recommend you do before your speech.
So I recommend that you take at least a few minutes to practice deep breathing.
One way you can do it is you can use something called the Boggs briefing now.
Boggs briefing is something that a lot of special forces use.
They use it to stay calm and uncomfortable situations.
And it's actually very simple.
Basically, the way it works is when you do Boggs briefing, you do four, four, four, four.
So breathe in for 4 seconds, then you halt for 4 seconds, then you breathe out for 4 seconds, and
then you hold again for 4 seconds.
So one sequence is 16 seconds and you just keep going through those sequences.
So you take roughly around four breaths in a minute.
It may not sound like a lot, but you can do it if you take deep breaths.
It's completely fine and you will see that once you do that, it's going to calm you down.
Now everyone is different.
So if you know this Boggs breathing sequence, 4 seconds, 4 seconds, four, four, if that's too long.
Well, try with 2 seconds, 2 seconds, 2 seconds, 2 seconds or maybe free, free, free, free.
Just experiment.
See what works for you.
Everyone is different, so experiment.
But definitely, definitely pay attention to your breathing.
If you have any questions about this, then please do let me know.
I I'm tempted to go deeper into this topic because breathing is fascinating, but I'm also aware that
breathing is beyond the scope of this course.
Right?
I don't want to go too crazy.
We could talk for 2 hours about breathing.
We could talk about the physiology of breathing.
And it's fascinating.
But obviously, this is a course about presentation skills.
Having said that, if you have any specific questions, do let me know.
And if I see a lot of similar questions, I will make extra content about breathing techniques.
Thank you so much.
And to finish this video altogether, let's take seven deep breaths in and out.
Try to use your diaphragm as well.
As you can see, I start here and I slowly fill up to the top.
And finally, one big deep breath and super slow breath out.
How does it feel?
I feel, I have to say.
Seven breaths may have been eight.
I don't I don't know exactly what I feel.
Super calm.
I feel super relaxed.
And what it took maybe 30 seconds, maybe 40 seconds.
Now, imagine what's going to happen when you do this for a couple of minutes before your presentation
just said, guys, thank you for watching.
I'll see you the next video.

--- Your “Emergency Toolbox:” Why & How ---

A lot of people ask me, okay, Jimmy, so I've taken your course.
I performed all the exercises, I'm utilizing the strategies.
All of this makes sense.
I feel confident, I feel ready.
I'm getting on a stage and got myself into do.
When they're saying I'm presenting, I'm killing it.
People are loving it, right?
People are tuning in.
And then at some point I just hit this weird wall where anxiety just sets in right out of nowhere.
Just it just comes to me.
It just builds up in my stomach and I don't know what's happening, and it freaks me out.
What can I do now?
In this video, I want to share with you something that I like to call your emergency toolbox.
Now is one of those things that it may seem strange to a lot of people, but this is something that
I've been using, especially in the past nowadays.
Fortunately, I don't really need it, but I've been using it in the past and it's really powerful and
it's essentially about prepping yourself for those worst case scenarios.
So rather than just saying to yourself, Well, everything is going to be great, I'm just going to
go for it, yes, you want to focus on the positive, but you also want to make sure that you prep yourself
for the worst case scenario with your emergency toolkit.
I'm going to explain in a second what it is.
But the reason you want to prepare yourself for the worst case scenarios is because deep inside when
you know that you are prepped, probably that worst case will not happen, right?
You notice that when you have an insurance option, you know that that if something bad happens, you
have plan B and plan C, very often you just feel more relaxed because you know that if something happens,
you will be okay.
For example, let's say that you want to go for a nice open ocean swim, but you decide to go by yourself.
You don't take any friends with you.
You don't have any emergency.
Booey Nothing.
Just you and the ocean.
It may feel very scary, right?
You may be swimming, feeling this sense of danger all the time.
Like, what if I get a cramp?
What if something happens?
What if there is a strong rip current that I didn't predict?
And what if it takes me out?
Right?
So you may have this internal dialogue and that experience probably will not be very pleasant.
On the other hand, if you go out there and to the ocean, but you go with a friend or two and maybe
one of your friends is on a kayak or pontoon, and maybe you have some emergency buoy tied up to your
leg with some water and maybe some some first aid stuff.
Right.
You will feel much calmer and most probably you will not even have to use it.
Right, because you feel more confident in that situation.
Right.
You will not freak out.
You won't have an anxiety attack because you know that.
Well, I'm here.
But but I mean, I'm prepped.
I have people around me.
I have everything that I need.
And I feel like the same thing applies to going out there to speak in front of people.
If you are prepared for the worst case scenario, the chances are the worst case scenario will not even
happen, right?
If you know deep inside that, if you get stressed out, if that worst case scenario happens and you
start panicking, but you are completely prepared for that situation, then just the awareness that
you are prepared will probably prevent that situation from happening.
It's an interesting mechanism how all of this works.
So let me share with you an example from the past.
So I remember many years ago, as you already know, I told you this in one of the first videos I used
to be panicky, afraid of presenting, but I had to present.
And at some point after that situation of running away from a stage, I decided, okay, this is my
commitment.
I want to become really good at presenting.
Well, you don't become good at presenting by just thinking about it.
You have to go out there and you have to practice.
And I remember that I had situations when in the middle of the presentation I would start freaking out
a little bit inside.
I could feel the anxiety building up, right?
And I had my emergency toolkit prepared.
I kind of discovered it while doing it right.
I didn't plan it in advance.
That's kind of how I discovered it.
But I remember one time I got really stressed out and I told everyone to close their eyes.
So imagine this I'm presenting.
I feel those emotions building up.
I feel anxiety.
And suddenly I just said, Everyone, close your eyes, close your eyes.
And people did right.
If you are a speaker, if you say it, it enough authority, people will do whatever you tell them to
do.
You tell them to stand up.
They'll stand up.
You tell them to work with a partner, they will do it right.
So when you say close your eyes, they're going to close it.
Close their eyes.
They assume, well, maybe there's some agitation going on.
Whatever it is, you lead them and they follow you.
So remember I said to people, close your eyes, and they did, and I didn't really know where I was
going with it.
The reason I told them to close their eyes was because I was just terrified.
I, I felt like too many people are looking at me.
I'm getting freaked out.
It's just too many eyeballs on me.
I need some time to regain my composure.
So I told them, Close your eyes.
And as they closed their eyes, I took a deep breath and I started sharing some story from the past.
Right.
And anyhow, to make the long story short, as I started sharing the story, because everyone had their.
Eyes closed.
That pressure was alleviated.
I regained my composure.
I focus on my breathing.
So when they opened their eyes, I was good to go.
And I continued my presentation.
But that was the day when I discovered the power of having that emergency toolbox, having something
in there preplanned.
So whatever happens, you can always use it.
And this in itself, it may be a good idea for you, right?
Everyone is different, but this may be a good idea.
So, for example, you could literally replicate what I did back in the day.
So if you start feeling very panicky, if you start feeling the anxiety filling your body, well, you
can literally tell people, close your eyes.
Obviously you want just tell them to close their eyes.
You want them to close their eyes for a reason, but you can figure this out in advance.
It could be some type of meditation.
It could be a breathing exercise, it could be a little story.
It could be something that they should think about.
It could be anything.
But what you want to do is you want to come up with some potential strategies that you could implement
if that situation happens.
For example, let's say you're presenting just to make it real.
You are presenting.
You start feeling anxious.
At some point you could say, Can everybody close their eyes?
Can you please close your eyes for a moment?
And now they close their eyes as they close their eyes.
You take a deep breath and you could literally tell them, take three deep breaths.
They're going to do it.
You do it with them as you are doing it with them, you are calming yourself down.
So you are taking those free, deep breaths.
And now you can ask them a question that's related to your presentation.
Okay.
So now we can say with your eyes closed, I want you to answer this question for yourself.
And not because no one is looking at you.
Their eyes are closed.
You can speak a bit slower.
You don't to worry how you look, how you appear.
Right?
But as you are going through this, you are calming yourself down.
You have those extra five or ten or 15 seconds to regain your composure, to get back into into your
center.
So then once you are ready to look, thank you.
Open your eyes.
Let's continue with the presentation.
Now, nobody in the audience has any idea what just happened here, right?
You are just at the verge of getting a panic attack.
Nobody knows.
Nobody knows, you know.
But they don't know.
They think it's just your strategy to engage them.
Now, the funny thing is that I use those techniques sometimes not because I'm stressed, but because
they work for engagement.
So if you've ever been to my life presentation, you probably know that sometimes I tell people, Hey,
I want everyone to close their eyes.
Close your eyes.
Think about this, think about that, or close your eyes and take five deep breaths.
Right?
I do this not because I need to regain my composure.
Right?
I can be very confident on a stage, but I'll still do it because I want them to regain maybe their
level of energy, to rebalance their energy so you can get double benefit.
Now, obviously, this is just one example of what you can do when when you feel that that anxiety common
to you.
But there is a mic in this video.
I'm giving you those examples so you can think for yourself.
Everyone is different, you know yourself so you can figure out for yourself what are some of the things
you could possibly do if something goes wrong on a stage right and designed some type of plan of action?
If it happens, I can do B or C or D, and when you work on this, what's going to happen is it's going
to give you such a boost of confidence because now you know, well, most probably this will never happen.
That negative worst case scenario will probably never happen.
But you know what?
Even if it happens, I'm prepared for it.
And I'm telling you that in itself will give you so much power, so much confidence, hope that you
enjoyed it.
Let me know what you think.
And I'm going to see you in the next video.

--- The Truth About Anxiety ---

In this video, I would like to put extra emphasis on something that I already mentioned a little bit
in some of my other videos.
And it's this concept of anxiety versus excitement.
Now, when you really think about it, how do you feel when you feel anxious?
Do you feel your palms sweating, maybe your trembling a little bit?
You feel your heart beating faster, maybe you are breathing faster, right?
So so you feel all of those things.
You may feel like this buzzy feeling, this weird sound in your ears.
You may even feel your blood pulsating here in your veins.
Right.
So what is the difference between this and being excited?
Well, the difference from the physiological perspective is almost nonexistent.
You feel pretty much the same things.
Your heart is also beating faster.
You may be sweating, right?
You may be really fired up.
But the difference is that you expect a positive outcome.
When you are anxious, you assume that whatever it is that you are doing probably has a negative outcome.
But when you are excited you feel very similar, but you expect a positive outcome and that's the difference.
Therefore, whenever you feel anxious and obviously there are some there are some exceptions to this.
If you feel anxious about, you know, about something terrible that just happened, it's pretty much
impossible to get excited about it.
But when you feel anxious before getting on a stage or maybe before going on a date or meeting a group
of people or doing a job interview or doing a negotiation, whatever it is, when you feel anxious before
doing something that could actually bring you a positive result, well then you can change it into excitement.
You just have to switch the outcome in your head.
Now, obviously, it's always easier said than done, but you can do it.
It's within your control.
So before you get on a stage, when you feel anxiety filling your body, you can imagine that you are
excited.
I know this may sound a bit crazy, but I've done this many times in the past.
I would literally I would let you fake it.
I'll let you fake excitement.
I would say to myself, Well, I'm not anxious, I'm excited, I can't wait to do this presentation.
And, you know, people would ask me, Hey, how do you feel?
Are you nervous?
Are you are you anxious?
And I would tell them, No, I'm excited.
I can't wait.
I'm exhilarated.
I can't wait to be there.
I wouldn't allow myself to use the words like nervous or anxious.
Right.
Because even though that was the reality, you know, in reality, yes, I was a bit anxious and nervous
and I felt some fear.
I didn't want to reinforce that.
Instead, I wanted to almost brainwash myself that I'm excited.
And that's why when people, even close friends, they would ask me, hey, how do how do you feel?
Are you a bit nervous?
I'm not.
Why would I be nervous?
I'm going to go out there and I'm going to have a great time.
I'm going to connect with the audience.
I'm so excited.
I just can't wait to be there.
You know what I notice when you keep saying those things to yourself, they become a reality.
It just become like a self-fulfilling prophecy, right?
I remember when I went to Tony Robbins event back in the day, many, maybe five years ago, six years
ago, I went to this event called Date with Destiny.
And at some point, Tony Robbins said, okay, everybody stands up.
And then he did his Tony Robbins thing.
Is that so?
Yes.
So, yes.
So, you know, we all kind of raise our state.
And at some point he said, let's do some affirmations.
Actually, he likes to call them incantations where you say very positive things, but you do it with
your entire body.
Right?
So he would say something and then we would repeat it.
He would say things like, I am confident, I am courageous, I am energetic.
And he would just keep repeating the same things and we would repeat after him with our entire bodies.
And it was the crazy thing.
Even people who are skeptical, there are some people in the audience who are very skeptical that like,
come on, man, like, will it really work?
Me just shouting things to myself pretty much.
But guess what?
It worked on everyone.
If you say those types of things to yourself, you will eventually start believing in them, right?
If you say to yourself, I'm excited, I'm excited, I'm excited.
But you try to feel it in your entire body.
I'm excited.
I can't wait.
I'm so happy.
I'm powerful.
I'm going to make it happen.
If you say it a bunch of times, you will literally start feeling like it.
But this works the other way round as well.
If you say to yourself, Yeah, I feel a bit sad today.
I feel a bit I don't know, I don't feel a lot of energy.
I feel very tired if you keep saying those things to yourself, guess what again?
Self-fulfilling prophecy.
You will feel those things.
And in fact, don't take my word for it right now.
What I want you to do is I want you to just just tune into your body and ask yourself, what is your
current state?
How would you rate your current level of energy from 1 to 10?
How do you rate your level of energy?
Just be honest with yourself.
And whatever number you gave to yourself.
What I want you to do right now is literally 20 or 30 times.
I want you to say to yourself out loud, I'm energetic, I feel powerful, I feel amazing, I feel so
positive.
And use your body.
I feel energetic, I feel awesome.
Wow, what a great day.
I feel incredible.
I feel powerful.
Say to yourself 30 times and then take a deep breath and ask yourself again, how do I feel from 1 to
10?
I guarantee you I guarantee you you will feel more energetic.
So clearly this works and I'm talking to you about it because I really want to get your buy in.
So next time you feel anxious, you really believe in it, and you consciously take that anxiety and
transform it into excitement and exhilaration.

--- Why Understanding Your Audience is Vital ---

Now the next section will be about defining your audience.
And it's one of those things that a lot of people underestimate.
And in fact, even more people don't even realize that it's a thing.
Like, most people think that you just show up and you deliver a presentation and who's your audience?
What they want, their needs.
It doesn't matter.
Well, of course it matters.
The reason you are there is because you are presenting to them.
You want to help them.
And that's why it's so important to define your audience, to figure out what they really need so you
can craft your presentation, your content and your delivery so you can give them as much value as possible.
And look, if you do that, like that's one of the building blocks of you creating a presentation that
gets a standing ovation.
That's it, right?
It's a super important section I'm very excited about.
And look, what a timing.
The sun is going down.
It's been a long day.
Finally today, we are lucky.
It's not raining all the time.
We had a little nice window to film those videos with this incredible view.
In case you don't know, this is the island of La Palma.
It's one of the Canary Islands.
Extremely beautiful.
And I do my best to show you as many bureaus as possible as well.
So on the one hand, you are learning some incredible knowledge and learning from my experiences so
you can become a better presenter.
But at the same time, I want you to enjoy this journey and to feel like you are here with me.
I want you to feel excited.
So before you watch the new videos, you're always kind of wondering how I'm curious what's going to
be the background?
I'm curious, is it going to be a mountain or the ocean?
Right.
I want to make it fun for you.
And by the way, over there, you can see it right now.
We have the El Theta Volcano, which is on the island of Tenerife.
It's almost 4000 meters above the sea level.
People are honking over there.
I think they're excited.
I think those people over there who are honking are excited that after this section we are about to
start another section about defining your audience.
Hope you enjoyed it and I'm going to see you soon.

--- Basic Activities You Need To Perform ---

So one of the most important things that you can do before any speech is to really dig in and to do
research about your audience.
You want to find out as much as possible about them.
Now, a lot of people missed the step because, first of all, they are not even aware that this is
a thing.
A lot of people don't realize the importance of this step and others, to be honest, they just can't
be bothered.
But it takes some effort, it takes some energy, and a lot of people just are not willing to put in
that work.
However, if you do it, you will reap the rewards because your presentation will be well calibrated.
So what do you want to do?
Well, definitely you want to reach out to the organizers of the presentation.
Now, of course, this will depend on the specific type of presentation that you are doing.
If you are presenting, for example, at a big conference, you definitely should reach out to the conference
organizer and simply ask, Hey, kind of give me the breakdown of who is in the audience.
Can you please tell me what are the biggest challenges of those people?
What are the demographics?
So essentially your job is to find out as much as possible about your audience.
Now you may retort, Well, but what if the conference organizer can't be bothered?
What if that person just can't be bothered to give you all this information?
But in reality, it's in their interest because the more you know about the audience, the better your
presentation will be, and the better your presentation will be, the better for the organizer.
And I actually recommend that you say to them, not in those words, but I recommend that you literally
say something in the lines of, Look, whenever I do my presentations, I really try to put as much
effort as possible because I want to find out about my audience so I can calibrate my presentation this
way.
I can truly connect with them.
I would love if you can tell me a bit more about the audience, because that's going to help me to make
the presentation better.
And ultimately this will lead to a better conference.
You can say something in those lines and if you position it like this, you will see that the organizers
will get out of their way to give you all the information you need.
So what about doing a smaller presentation?
What if you do a presentation maybe within your organization?
Now, if you have access to the members of your audience, it's really worth talking to them now.
It never ceases to amaze me how very few people are willing to do it, but it's actually very simple.
Just walk up to the people who will be a part of your audience and ask them.
Simply ask them, say, Listen, I'm doing the presentation about the topic X, Y and Z, and I want
to make it as valuable as possible for you.
So I'd like to find out a little bit more.
What are you struggling with?
What are your challenges?
What are you trying to gain from this presentation?
And just talk to a bunch of people gathered intelligence and then based on that, you can craft your
presentation.
There's one more thing you can do, especially if you are presenting for an external organization or
if you are presenting within your own company for a lot of different people.
And it's a questionnaire.
It's as simple as that.
You can design a set of questions to find out more about your audience's challenges and aspirations.
What do you want to get out of your presentation or workshop or consulting?
And then you can distribute it.
Now, if you are doing it for the external organization, you can simply tell the House, Listen, I
really want to do my best.
I want to give as much value as possible to your audience or to your your clients or to your employees
or whoever it is that you're presenting for.
And tell them, Look, in order to do it, I need to find out more about your audience.
Here is a questioner that I would love you to send out to all those people.
Please make it anonymous so I can find out more about their needs and craft my presentation based on
that.
So if you do all of those things, I can guarantee you that with all of that new intelligence, you
will be able to mold your presentation into something that's going to be extremely compelling.

--- Why & How To Create Your Audience AVATAR ---

One of the most important things you should do before your presentation is to define your audience.
Avatar Well, so what does that mean?
After you do all of that research, after you get all the intelligence, all the data from either the
conference organizer or the host, or maybe the questioner that you send out, you talk to, to to some
of your audience members.
Once you have all of that information, you want to figure out what is your audience, avatar?
What are the psychographics of that audience?
What do they want?
What are their pain points?
What are their biggest challenges?
What do they want to accomplish?
But rather than trying to please everyone, because this is the temptation, right?
We all have this.
We want to please every single person.
You have to make your avatar fairly narrow.
You have to make it fairly narrow.
And I know it sounds a bit counterintuitive because whenever you get on a stage, it's a natural reaction
to think, well, I'm going to try to create something that's going to help every single person.
But the problem is that when you focus on helping every single person, you may actually not help anyone.
So, for example, as I'm building my courses, I could be focusing on trying to help every single person
on the planet.
I could try to design my video to help maybe a 15 year old high school kid and also 65 years old lady
who used to be a lawyer and an athlete who is 29 years old and competes in MMA.
Right.
I could try to focus on all of those different characters, but if I did that, my delivery wouldn't
be crisp.
So instead I tried to dig into who is my audience, try to figure out what are the challenges of my
audience, what do they want, what are the pain points?
What do they desire?
And based on that, I kind of mold it into a smaller customer avatar.
So my main audience, Avatar, are professionals, business people who want to improve their presentations
because primarily in the business context and the professional context.
And again, it doesn't mean that other people cannot benefit from this course, but I'm primarily targeting
those people.
And because of that, my delivery can be more crisp, I can calibrate better.
So when one of the members of my target audience sees those videos, that person will not be thinking,
Well, those videos are kind of okay.
I kind of enjoy them.
But the goal is for that person to think, Wow, like this guy, he really knows what I'm going through.
She really has the solutions to my problems.
Wow.
It feels like this course was made just for me.
And this is the type of reaction that you want to create.
Now, by the way, I hope that this is how you feel about this course so far.
This is section number three.
So considering that you are watching this video, it's probably 20 something video and discourse, you
probably resonate with this content.
But that's that's the reality you want to create.
This is the reaction you want to have.
You want people to look at your speech or presentation or workshop and think, wow, it feels like this
was designed for me.
It feels like that person speaks my language, that person speaks directly to me.
So I really encourage you to define your audience.
Avatar.
And by the way, it doesn't have to be just one person.
It can be a group of people.
For example, if you are doing some type of I.T. presentation in your company, you can decide, well,
one of my avatar is Joanna.
She's 31 years old and she's in whatever department and this company and another avatar is Josh, and
he's 39 years old and he's in the other department.
He has issues X, Y and Z.
And as you have those avatars, as you create your speech, you can take their needs and challenges
into account in order to calibrate your content.

--- How To WIN Your Audience from the Start ---

In this video, I want to talk to you about one of the most important ingredients of an amazing presenter.
And it's relatability, right?
So whenever you design your presentation and by the way, this applies to other realms as well.
When you write books, when you write articles, when you connect with clients, it applies to pretty
much anything that has to do with social dynamics.
But relatability is the key.
You want to make sure that people who listen to you, who watch you on a stage, they can resonate with
you.
They can relate to you.
So how can you do it?
Well, there are a couple of different ways, but I would say that part of it starts with your research.
We talked about it before.
You define your target audience, you figure out what are their challenges, pain points, what are
their desires.
And based on all of that information, what you want to do is you want to ask yourself, okay, how
am I similar to that audience?
What are the points that connect me with the audience?
What are the pain points that they experience right now that I used to experience and I managed to overcome?
What are the aspirations that they have that perhaps I managed to accomplish or maybe I'm still striving
to accomplish?
Essentially what you want to do is you want to find a common ground.
And the same thing applies to any social situation, right?
When you meet people for the first time, when you are developing your friendships.
One of the things that you want to do is you want to find the common ground.
You want to find things that connect you and the other person or you and the group of people.
And the same thing applies to your audience.
You want to find those points of connection.
To give you an example, recently I was presenting in Argentina, I went to Buenos Aires and in case
you didn't know, Argentina had a really severe lockdown.
They had, I think was close to ten months.
They had a super long lockdown where people were allowed just to go out maybe twice a week to to the
supermarket.
And that's it.
Full blown lockdown.
And a lot of people struggled tremendously.
So when I got on a stage that was right after Argentina opened the borders, I acknowledge that situation.
I said something in the lines of I'll try to link up some B-roll, by the way, but I try to acknowledge
the situation.
I said something in the lines of, Look, first of all, I'm just so happy that we can all gather here
after this crazy lockdown.
You know, I was in Germany.
We had a lockdown as well.
And it just feels so amazing to be back with people.
How many of you can resonate with this?
And everyone just raises their hands, right?
Because everyone can resonate.
Everyone was happy to be back out there living their lives.
Right.
Here's another example.
So when I went to talk to you in Japan to present, instead of just getting on a stage and saying,
Hi, my name is Jan and I'm very happy to be here, I actually said Konichiwa.
And I said a few other things I just can't remember right now.
Japanese is definitely not, not the easiest language, but I said a few things in Japanese and when
people are clapping I said arigato because I was right.
And just that, you know, just a little phrase got people smiling, you know, people people appreciated
it.
They appreciated it so much because most speakers are just not willing to do it right.
So if you do things like this, you will be able to connect with your audience.
Actually, speaking of Argentina, I mentioned Argentina before, but one of the things I did was speaking
in Spanish.
Now I was delivering the presentation in English because obviously we had an international audience,
but because the vast majority of people were from Argentina, I said a few things in Spanish something
the lines of a Proposito and Cantar Buenos Aires Estaba Casa de San Jose Sto Feliz Historica or something
like so random stuff, you know, a couple of sentences, maybe 10 seconds, right?
Which made it interesting for those who didn't understand Spanish.
I was like, Well, what's happening?
What is he talking about?
Now that's interesting.
And the entire audience is laughing, right?
So that raised the energy in the room.
And of course, people who could understand me, they appreciated the fact that I used their language.
Now, another thing is you connecting your background with the pain or the challenges that your audience
is experiencing.
So for example, you notice in one of the first videos I told you, listen, if you are afraid of presenting,
you don't have to worry because this is something that you can overcome.
This is something that you can work on.
Presentation skills are not just a talent, it's a skill, right?
Presentation skills, these are skills that you can learn.
And I know it because I used to be terrified of presenting.
And I told you some stories about how I used to feel anxious presenting in front of people.
Now this way I develop a connection.
Now the important thing is that whenever you do things like this, you have to be authentic.
You have to be authentic.
There is nothing worse than a speaker inventing random stories that that actually never happened.
Right.
Or making things way bigger than they actually are just to try to connect with the audience.
People are smart.
People can sense that.
People can sense when you are genuine.
And that's why research is so important.
That's why building that foundation before you get on a stage is so important.
Because if you do it, if you.
Get to know your audience if you take your time to figure out what connects me with my audience, what
is the common ground?
If I met them in a restaurant or at a dinner party, how would I build a common ground with those people?
And then when you use that, when you when you put it into your presentation, wow, you're going to
develop a connection with your audience.
They will feel like they can resonate with you.
They can relate to you.
And we like people who are similar to us.
So that's going to increase your overall engagement of your presentation.

--- Clever Strategy to Understand & Engage Your Audience ---

So here's something that you can do at the beginning of your speech to further connect with your audience
and to find out about them.
Now, obviously, ideally, you want to do all of your homework of the things that we've discussed in
the previous videos.
But one of the things that you can't do, and I do it a lot is when you get on a stage at the beginning
of your presentation.
I'm not saying right at the beginning, but but in the first few minutes you could do something in the
lines of, Hey, before we get started, I would like to figure out the temperature, quote unquote,
in the room.
I'd like to figure out who is here, who are you?
And then you can ask the audience a couple of questions.
For example, hey, I'm wondering how many of you here are employees?
Raise your hand.
Okay, cool, cool.
Roughly 20%.
How many of you are business owners?
Okay, raise your hand.
Okay.
Awesome.
How many of you are in the transition period right now and you're not sure what you're going to do after?
And maybe that's one of the reasons why you are here.
Raise your hand and and then you always tell them what you see.
So what I'm doing here is I'm not just connecting with my audience, but also I'm finding out a little
bit more about that specific crowd.
And also by raising my hand the moment I tell them to raise their hands, I make it more likely that
they will listen to me and that they will follow what I'm telling them to do.
If you tell people, Hey, raise your hand, but you don't do anything yourself, people are not very
likely to listen to you.
But if you say, Hey, raise your hand, if people are more likely to raise their hands as well, and
by telling people what you see in the crowd, you make it relevant to them.
If you just say, Hey, raise your hand.
If you have a business and a bunch of people raise their hands and you say, Okay, cool, now raise
your hand.
If we don't tell them what you saw, none of this is relevant to them because they are curious, right?
How many people here have a business?
And that's why it's so important that if you ask that question, then you say, okay, I see that roughly
25% of you have a business.
Thank you.
Right now, obviously, this is just an example and you may be doing a completely different presentation,
but the point is that when you are given some type of talk, what you may want to do, you don't have
to do it.
But what you may want to do is at the beginning, you may want to ask people some questions about who
they are, what they are up to, and tell them to raise their hands and then let the audience know what
is the structure of the audience.
And this way again, you connect with your audience, but also you get to know them a little bit better
and that will help you to calibrate the presentation even further as you go along.

--- The GOLDEN RULE to Keep In Mind ---

Welcome to the section about the structure of your presentation.
Our structure is really important.
As I mentioned before, it lays the foundation for everything to come.
Now, one golden rule I want to talk to you about right away is that your presentation is never just
about the information you convey.
Because when you really think about it, if it was just about the information, you could give people
your notes, you could give them the transcript of your presentation, they wouldn't have to come and
see you present.
So clearly presentations are about something more than that.
They are about the perspective shift, the mindset shift, implementing new ideas, right?
You want to make sure that when people leave your presentations, they come out in a way different.
That's what you want, whether it's gaining more inspiration or looking at things differently.
But that's what you want.
You don't want just information.
And this is why it is so important to always start with the end in mind.
So a lot of people make a mistake when they design the structure of their presentation.
A lot of people start from the beginning, right?
They just go from A to B to C to D.
They put a few things together.
They put a bunch of slides.
That's it.
Ready to go.
But it doesn't work like that.
You actually want to start at the end.
You want to first of all ask yourself, okay, based on my target audience and of course, you already
know your target audience because you watch the previous section.
We talked about defining your audience.
So we know who is in your audience, what are their pain points, what they need, what are their desires.
Once you have all of that, well, now you want to ask yourself, okay, what is the outcome of my presentation?
What do I want people to get out of it?
How do I want people to feel?
And that's an important thing.
How do I want people to feel after they see me present?
And by the way, you may be wondering, maybe you think, okay, but I'm about to deliver a 20 minute
technical presentation.
I mean, it's not a really a big deal.
Still, you want to ask yourself a question, how do I want people to feel after that presentation?
And based on all of that, based on the outcomes that that you want you want to you want to kind of
define what is the end result, what is the ideal and result.
And once you have that well, based on that, you can then reverse engineer and you can create the structure
of your presentation, which we will handle in a second.

--- The Basic Presentation Structure ---

So before I delve into different steps that you want to follow when you design your presentation, let
me talk about some of the basics.
So each presentation, no matter how long or how short, has the half the intro, the middle and the
end.
And this may sound overly simplistic, but a lot of people forget about it, right?
And a lot of people kind of get right into the middle straight away and they don't even finish the presentation.
They kind of.
And you probably had those situations before, right?
At some point you don't know what to say next.
And you say, well, I guess I guess that's it.
Thank you.
Thank you so much.
And is the last thing you want to do, right.
So, you know, no matter what you what you talk about, no matter what your presentation is all about,
you want to make sure you have the intro, the middle and the end.
Now, how long will be the intro?
And the middle?
And the end will of course, depend on the type of presentation, how much time you have, what you
want to accomplish, but you have to have all of those things within your structure.
Now, in the introduction, you definitely want to make sure that you introduce yourself to your audience,
but you want to make it relevant to them and you don't want to overdo it.
A lot of people make a mistake of talking too much about themselves, especially when they are sharing
things that are just irrelevant to their audiences.
Definitely don't want to do that, but you do want to share a little bit about yourself and ideally
it should be connected to the topic of the presentation.
Now what I like to do, and this has been working extremely well, is to combine the mixture of credibility
and vulnerability.
And when you mix both of those things together, it gives you this beautiful cocktail that allows you
to really connect with your audience.
So what do I mean by this?
Well, you want to make sure that your audience can see why you are credible, why you are actually
meant to be here presenting in front of them.
But at the same time, if you just talk about your credibility factors, you may come across as somebody
who's showing off a little bit too much.
Right?
So what you want to do is you want to tell your audience why you are credible, but at the same time,
you want to inject a little bit of vulnerability.
You want to be authentic, right?
You want to be a human.
You want to show your human side.
So if you are presenting a technical topic, you can share some of your credentials.
But rather than just reading from a very long list, well, you can share a couple of things and then
you could see something in the lines of and by the way, you need to know that even though now I really
enjoy technical topics in the past, I really used to struggle with it.
Right.
And you can share a little story or a little fact about yourself.
So what you want to do is you want to blend that credibility with vulnerability and introduction.
You also want to let people know what you're going to be talking about.
Now, I'm going to share a few other tips later on in the section, but you want to let people know
what you're going to talk to them about now.
Do you have to tell them exactly what you will cover?
Not necessarily.
I'm going to cover it in another video.
But you want to give them some type of glimpse into what's going to happen in the presentation.
Then obviously in the middle, that's the gist of your presentation.
That's where you cover the most important points and the ending is also very important.
The last thing you want to do is to get into the middle of your presentation.
As I mentioned before, at some point you just say, Well, yeah, I guess, I guess that's it.
Thank you, everyone.
Thank you for coming.
You don't want to do that, right?
You want to design your ending.
And one way to do it and this always works really well, is just to summarize what you taught people,
right?
It's actually really simple.
So when you design your ending, you just look at everything else you've covered.
And when you're wrapping up your presentation, you can let you tell people what you told them.
Right?
You can summarize everything.
Hey, you know, thanks again for coming here today.
So today we learned X, Y and Z, blah, blah, blah.
You can cover some of those topics.
You can summarize them in a compelling manner.
And that's how you can wrap it up, for example, by telling people that you appreciate them being there.
Right.
Another way to finish your presentation is after you summarize what you've covered, you may want to
share something a bit more motivational, something inspiring, right?
If there is a time and a presentation to share inspiring stories, it's at the end of the presentation
because there's something called the first impression, but also the last impression, and you want
people to leave your presentation feeling good.
And that's why, you know, the example I shared with you before people cut their presentations short,
those situations are really weird because people people lacked a sense of closure, right?
You feel like you are in the right and then suddenly it ends and you don't even realize when it ends.
Right?
You don't want that to happen, right?
Imagine watching a movie and suddenly the movie stops right in the middle.
You wouldn't want to watch that movie, right?
Wanting that all the best movies have in common is that there are those transitions there smooth transitions.
So when you finish watching that movie, you have a sense of.
You're right.
You know, the subtitles come in.
You see the credits, the music starts playing, and you are kind of sunk in your chair, just relaxing.
And you have this feeling of completion.
Wow, this was a great movie.
It really made me think and it made me feel certain emotions and it kind of roll with it.
You slowly come out of that experience.
That's what you want to do with your presentation.
Anyhow, I'm going to cover some of those topics in the in the following video.
So stay tuned and let's keep going.
Let's keep going.
I know, I know I covered a lot of content in this course so far, but I have much more to give to you.
So I hope that you are excited and let's just keep rolling.

--- The Power of Reverse-Engineering: WHY & HOW ---

So in the next couple of videos, I'm going to share with you the specific steps that I take in order
to design the structure of my presentations.
But before I get into it, I just want to mention something.
In case you are wondering that I keep changing where I'm sitting here and we are not very consistent
with our shots.
The reason is that the weather keeps changing.
You probably can't see it, but there's a really strong wind coming from behind me, so I'm sitting
here just to cover the microphone.
It's really loud, actually, but because the microphone is very good, it's not picking up on the wind,
but because it keeps changing, it's raining from time to time.
I have to keep adjusting.
And also sometimes I do have to wear my glasses.
I typically like to remove them because I want to have eye contact with you.
I want you to see my eyes.
But sometimes the sun is so strong that it's pretty much impossible.
I just want to let you know about that.
Hey, this is what it is.
If you want to film videos in nature, this is the price you have to pay.
Having said okay, first things first.
When you are designing your structure, as I mentioned before, you want to start with the end goal
in mind and then you want to reverse engineer the process.
So the first thing that I want you to do, once you know, what's your topic, what is the topic of
your presentation?
I want you to start writing down the list of objectives.
And by the way, that's exactly what I do when I build courses.
Building courses and creating presentations is very similar because essentially I'm doing public speaking
but in front of a camera.
So you can use those concepts as well when you are presenting in front of any camera.
So the first thing you want to do is you want to take a piece of paper and you want to start writing
down the list of objectives for your presentation.
At this stage, you don't want to overthink it.
You don't want to.
I'm saying just because it's easy to fall into this trap of perfectionism where you are not sure what
to write down, so then you wait or you postpone it and you procrastinate.
Now what you want to do is take a piece of paper and let's see, once you know your topic, start writing
down the list of all of the objectives that come to mind.
Just keep writing, turn on some nice music, relax into it, and start writing down all of those objectives.
Now, once you have a decent list, now what I want you to do is I want you to revise your your audience
avatar.
Once again, I want you to revise who is your audience.
And then based on that, look at their list of objectives and try to figure out what are the top objectives
and circle them.
Circle the top objectives.
Okay.
So so this is the first step.
Now, in the next video I'm going to share with you, step number two.

--- Simple, yet Powerful Idea Generation Strategy ---

So the next step is very simple.
It's the idea, and I know it doesn't sound very sophisticated and frankly, it's not sophisticated.
It's actually meant to be very dirty.
Right.
You want to make a dirty draft.
The reason I'm saying this is because a lot of people, again, they fall into this trap of perfectionism.
They feel like, well, I have to make everything perfect.
So as they are designing the outline of their presentation, the structure is try to make it perfect.
And because of that, they never get started.
And then they procrastinate and they end up just putting random things together right before the deadline.
You don't want to be like that.
What you want to do is right now you want to do the idea dump, which means that you take a piece of
paper and you literally rides down every single piece of content that you could add into that presentation.
Anything that comes to mind, it could be a piece of knowledge.
It could be a story, it could be a personal story.
It could be a reference to something.
It could be perhaps some type of case study.
Maybe it's an exercise, an action step.
Maybe it's a question that you can ask your audience.
Right.
So what you want to do is you want to write everything that comes to mind.
You have your topic, you know your audience, you have your list of objectives.
Looking at this, you want to ask yourself, okay, what are all the things that I could talk about
in this presentation?
Just start writing everything down and you may have this in your dialogue that tells you, Well, wait
a second, you're writing down too many things like how will you put this together?
It's too many things.
It's all over the place.
Look at this stage, it doesn't matter because this step is about creating the clay, right?
You want to get a lot of clay, you want to put a lot of clay into this basket so that later on you
can take it and you kind of malt a really nice sculpture.
But he won't be able to work on your sculpture if you don't have enough.
Clay So that's why you want to you want to write down all the stories, all the action steps, all the
pieces of knowledge, anything and everything that comes to your mind.
You want to write it down.
And this idea and once you do that, you will realize, wow, actually, I have a lot to say on this
topic and this is it.
This is the step number two.

--- The “Post-It” Note Technique ---

All right.
So this next step is extremely important.
It's going to take a little bit of work, but it's going to make it so much easier for you to design
a compelling structure for your presentation.
This is something that I've been using for many, many years to create my videos for those courses,
for example.
I've been using it to design articles and of course to design my presentations.
It's really powerful and it has to do with Post-it notes, you know, those little pieces of paper you
can buy and then you can write something down on them.
You can stick them to your monitor or to your wall to remind yourself of different things.
Well, what I want you to do is I want you to purchase some of those pieces of paper.
And the reason I want you to do it is because we'll be working on your structure very visually.
You see, one of the most common mistakes people make when creating their structure is that they just
start right at the beginning and they try to move their way to the end.
But they just get stuck, right?
They get stuck because they don't have the big picture of everything that they are trying to do.
So what I want you to do is I want you to take three bigger pieces of paper and I want you to write
down on one of them introduction the second one, the middle, and the last one, the ending.
Okay.
So you want to have three blocks of paper introduction, middle and the ending.
And what I want you to do is you will position them on the floor.
Intro Middle ending on a floor.
Now I want you to look at the paper with your idea generation.
Remember that piece of paper where you write down all the different ideas, all the potential content
pieces, case studies, knowledge, personal stories, experiences, etc., right?
So I want you to take that piece of paper and then I want you to take those little Post-it notes, and
I want you to transfer those various content pieces and to separate pieces of paper.
Right?
So if you have a story in there, I want you to take that story and I want you to put it on a little
piece of paper.
If there is a case study, I want you to write it down on a separate piece of paper, and I want you
to do it for every single potential content piece that you've created in the idea generation process.
Now, you may, you might tell me, Jimmy, come on, this is crazy.
I don't want to write so much.
Okay?
I have 30, 40, maybe 50 different potential content pieces.
It's a lot of paper I have to use.
It's completely fine.
I really I really want to urge you to do it because it's going to make everything easier because here's
what are we going to do?
So now you have your intro, your middle and your ending.
Lie down on a floor, right?
So we going to do everything visually.
You will take those little pieces of paper and you will start playing around with different variations
of your outline.
So I want you to look at your intro and ask yourself, Okay, which bits and pieces could I use in my
intro?
Maybe I could share that story.
Okay, let me put it in there.
Maybe I could share that case study.
Let me put it in there.
When you look at your middle, you also want to ask yourself, okay, what do I want to talk about in
the core of my presentation?
Oh, that's a cool story.
Maybe I can share that, but put it in there.
Maybe I can talk about that.
The thing I read in the book and and refer to that book.
Okay, put it in there.
Maybe I could share that case study.
Put it in there.
Now at this stage is really important not to be a perfectionist because everything is just a draft model.
You are not creating the final version of the outline, you are just playing around with different variations.
And the great thing about this Post-it note technique is that it's so flexible and it's so visual because
you can keep rearranging things as you wish.
So it's easier just to go with the flow and just try try different things.
And as you go along, as you're trying to erase those pieces of paper into some type of draft outline,
if you have new ideas, if something comes into your mind, guess what?
Just take another piece of paper, write it down and put it in there.
And if you keep playing around like this, you will start noticing that your draft outline becomes better
and better and better.
It starts taking some shape.
So you took all of that clay and now you started molding it and you will see that there is some type
of sense of direction when you look at your ending, for example, well, normally maybe you would find
it very difficult to figure out how you can end your presentation.
But now you simply have to ask yourself, okay, well, do I have in my idea Generation Pile, you have
all of those different content pieces.
What do I have in there?
Oh, wow.
There's this motivational story that happened to me.
Maybe that's a good story for the ending.
Put it in there.
Maybe there is something else.
Put it in there.
Maybe there is an action step for the audience.
And you think, well, this action step could be really good for the end of my presentation.
Well, let me put it in there and then you put it in there, right?
And again, this way in a very flexible manner, you can play around with different options.

--- Something Not To Forget About ---

Okay.
So now you have your draft outline.
You're playing around with those Post-it notes, you have your intro, your middle, your ending, you
have different content pieces in there.
What I recommend you do is to speak some of those things out loud.
There's one of the best ways to to actually design the structure of your presentation.
You know, it's interesting that most people, when they design their presentations, they they never
say anything, right?
They do it very quietly.
But after all, when you present, you have to speak, right?
It's all about speaking so often.
What helps is when you have all of those things distributed on your floor in front of you have this
draft outline, you start playing around and you start speaking some of those things out loud.
You literally start imagining that, Okay, if I were to give a presentation right now, how would I
incorporate those different bits and pieces into a presentation?
Of course, you start with the intro, you play around, you say things out loud, you make it imperfect
because nobody is watching you.
Nobody is listening to you.
If you make a mistake, that's fine, because in fact, you welcome mistakes because that's what this
process is all about.
You want to figure out what works and what doesn't work.
So you should actually technically welcome mistakes.
So you say things out loud.
When you see that something is not working, you remove it.
When you see that something is working well, great.
You keep it in there.
Maybe you have an idea to add something else.
Guess what?
You take another piece of paper, you add it in there, you put a title, you put it in there, and
this way you go through the intro, then the middle and then the end.
And eventually this will help you to really nail down the proper draft outline.
Now I recommends you that you give yourself a deadline.
Give yourself a deadline to have the outline done, because you could follow this process forever.
Unless you forever write.
You could keep adjusting and you will always get new ideas and you will always you always have those
realizations.
Oh, wait, hold on a second.
I read that one book and there's this thing in that book that I could share here.
You always have those moments, so you want to make sure you set some type of deadline to basically
solidify the basic outline.
So as you're going through your old line from the beginning till the end, you start saying some of
those things out loud.
You are in the introduction section.
You start talking about some of those things that you could potentially use in your presentation.
Maybe you notice that you don't like something, you don't resonate with it.
Well, guess what?
Remove it.
Perhaps you realize that something is missing.
Take a piece of paper, write it down and just add it to the old time.
And by the way, one important thing that I don't want you to forget, especially if you have little
kids or animals at home, you always want to make sure that by the end of each brainstorming session,
you take a picture of your old line.
And the reason is that and this happened to me before, right?
If you leave all of those pieces of paper on a floor, you may start really developing a really cool
old line.
You may start feeling proud.
Wow, this structure starts looking really incredible.
And then what happens?
A little kid barges in, right?
Or a dog comes in and eat some of that paper or you open the window and the wind blows everything.
So you want to be safe.
You want to be safe.
You always want to document everything with a picture just in case.
And you want to give yourself a deadline.
Because honestly, we could we could go forever with redesigning our old lines.
I talked to a lot of people who try to produce content, and so many of them confine me that it's almost
impossible for them just to move on because they have this perfectionistic attitude that it can always
be better, it's going to always be better.
And they keep getting new ideas.
And honestly, you can go like this forever.
I know what I'm talking about because I'm one of those people.
I still have those issues from time to time.
I have to stop myself out of it and forget about this, those perfectionistic tendencies.
So you want to make sure that you set some type of deadline, and once that deadline passes, you take
whatever outline you have and now you put it on your laptop.
You write all of those things down on your laptop, and now you can start filling the gaps.
You can start expanding on the content and continue designing the actual presentation.

--- Share or Not To Share (the Outline), That’s The Question! ---

As you can see, we changed the backgrounds a little bit.
We are very lucky with the weather finally getting some sun.
So we decided to continue this course in the area of El Paso on the La Palma Island.
You can see beautiful mountains behind me and actually right in front of me over there.
There is the volcano that recently blew up and it was spitting lava for three months trade.
Maybe we're going to link up some footage yet to see if we have something.
But anyhow, let's get into it.
So one of the most common questions people ask me is, okay, Jimmy.
So when I present, should I let people know about my structure at the beginning of the presentation?
Should I let people know what's about to happen?
And I want to answer this question here because one of the most common questions that I get, typically
the answer is yes.
Now, obviously, it depends on a specific situation.
Every presentation is different, but in general, you definitely want to let people know at least a
little bit what's going to happen in your presentation.
Now, you don't necessarily want to tell them about your entire structure and go into all the details
in terms of what's going to happen.
But you want people to have some type of idea what to expect, right?
People don't necessarily like the unknown.
People like to be familiar with what to expect, at least to some extent.
So what I recommend you to do is to focus on the objectives of your presentation.
So right at the beginning, when you're introducing yourself, when you are connecting with your audience,
let people know what they will get out of this speech.
Now, again, it all depends on the type of speech you are making, but by the rule of thumb, I would
say that the longer the speech, the more comprehensive the speech, the more complex and technical
the speech, the more time you should spend letting people know what exactly will happen.
So, for example, if you are given just a five or seven minute talk to perhaps your team members to
motivate them.
Right.
And maybe to share what's been happening so far in the company and to give them an injection of inspiration
and motivation for the week to come.
Well, in a little speech like this, you don't really have to tell people what's going to happen because
it's a it's a short speech, right?
It comes from the heart.
You probably don't have to tell them what's going to happen.
However, if you are given a one hour lecture or maybe you are presenting at a big conference and you
are doing a 45 minute keynote presentation, or maybe you are presenting in front of all of the people
from your company and and you are sharing what your team managed to accomplish over the last six months.
Now, if that's the case, if those presentations are longer and more comprehensive, then definitely
let people know what's going to happen now.
Never get stuck in those nitty gritty things, right?
You don't want to tell people all the information.
Don't want to say that.
Listen, at first we're going to talk about X, Y and Z.
I'm going to share with you this exercise and that exercise.
And then we're going to see this report and that report, and then we're going to do this and that.
You don't want to go too deep into it.
You don't spend too much time explaining what's going to happen.
But again, you want to focus mostly on what they will gain out of the presentation, and you want them
to be familiar with the flow.
So for example, you can say something lines of look at first we will talk about X and then Y and then
Z.
Afterwards I'm going to share with you some really powerful case studies that will show you exactly
why those principles work.
And then finally we will go into blah, blah, blah, right?
This is, for example, the way you can introduce the structure of your presentation right at the beginning.
So let me give you a real life example.
Let's say that you are delivering a presentation to your company, to your team members about software
that you can all be using collectively as a company to increase your productivity.
Right?
So as you start your presentation, let's say that it's a 40 minute presentation, you can say something
the lines of, look, first of all, I'm going to identify the problem.
I'm going to focus on some of the biggest challenges that we've all been facing in terms of productivity.
Then I'm going to tell you about some of the most powerful software that I've discovered that can help
us solve those challenges.
And then finally, I'm going to move into the best practices.
So how you can make the most of the software to dramatically increase your productivity, get more done,
and feel better about about your work.
Are you ready?
Let's get started.
Right.
So this is one example of how you could introduce your speech structure.
So let me give you a different example.
Let's say that you are not doing a typical presentation where you just keep talking from the beginning
till the end, but perhaps you are addressing your team members or maybe your employees.
You are doing a mini presentation and then you open it up to everyone so people can ask questions and
you can have a nice brainstorming session.
If that's the case, you could say something in the lines of, Look after this short introduction,
what are we going to do is I'm.
To share with you some of the biggest challenges that we've been facing that I'm going to tell you how
so far collectively as a company, we've been trying to solve those challenges.
And then I will open up floor to questions that I will try to answer.
However, I want to involve all of you so we can have a little mastermind back and forth and use the
power of synergy so we can all learn from one another.
Sounds good.
Let's get into it.
Right.
So that's another way you could introduce your structure anyhow.
I could give you a lot of different examples.
I'm pretty sure that you see the point I'm trying to make here.
The main thing you have to remember is that there's no right or wrong.
Every situation is different, but by the rule of thumb, the longer the more complex and comprehensive
your presentation, the more time you want to spend introducing what's going to happen in a presentation.
Oh, by the way, analogy to my courses when I build courses.
So when you see me, for example, publishing a one hour course or a 90 minute course, I typically
don't spend a lot of time telling people what's going to happen in the course.
I usually make an intro video and I tell people just about the objectives, the outcomes that people
will get.
Hey, welcome to this course and this course.
You will learn X, Y and Z, right?
We have this many sections and this is what's going to happen.
I don't go too deep into it.
However, this presentation skills course is very comprehensive.
It's very profound.
There are lots of different videos, a ton of different sections, and because of that I decided to
make a separate video where I share with you exactly what's going to happen section by section.
Remember that video right at the beginning?
It's a pretty long video because considering that the course is so big, I wanted you to know exactly
what to expect, and I wanted you to know how the journey will look like from the beginning till the
end.
So this is just another example because a lot of the things that I'm talking about in the context of
public speaking, well, it also applies to video presenting how to enjoy this video.
I hope that you enjoy the new, beautiful scenery and let's keep going.

--- Making a Great Last Impression ---

In this video, I'd like to put an extra emphasis on how important it is to really spend a lot of time
prepping your introduction and your ending, because you see a lot of people make a mistake of thinking
that the core of the presentation is the most important element, but in reality is of course the core
is what makes a presentation.
However, how you start your presentation will create the first impression and how you end your presentation
will create the last impression.
And last impression is also extremely important, right?
We talked about it a little bit at the beginning of the section.
The last thing you want for people to feel is to leave the presentation feeling like I just kind of
ended abruptly without any sense of closure.
And at the same time, you will make sure that when you start your presentation, you start with the
right foot, you create the right context for everything to come.
So I really encourage you to spend extra time while designing your structure.
You want to make sure that you not just work on your presentation, but you also work specifically on
the structure of your intro and your outro.
And of course, we have a separate practice section in this course and we have a delivery section as
well.
So I'm going to delve a bit deeper into it, but I just want to let you know right away that you should
spend a lot of time practicing your intro and your ending.
The more you practice, the better you become at delivering it.
Well, obviously, the better your delivery on the day will be and the better the context you will set
at the beginning of the presentation, and the higher the likelihood that you will leave people with
a lasting, positive impression after your presentation.
So I want to talk to you a little bit about finishing your presentation because before a couple of videos
ago, we talked a little bit about how you can create a really good introduction.
But what about finishing your presentation?
Well, you can finish your presentation, first of all, by summarizing various things that you've been
discussing in your presentation.
But there is more to it, right?
The ending is that point where you can actually add a motivational spin, you can add a little bit of
inspiration, or, for example, you can ask people a really deep question that you can then propel
them to ponder.
So let me give you an example.
Let's say that you are delivering a presentation about productivity.
How could you finish your presentation?
Well, after paraphrasing some of the things that you've taught your audience very, very briefly,
and you could say something in the lines of, I want you to think what you will do in order to stop
being busy for the sake of being busy and to actually be proactive.
What are some of the tasks that you will completely eliminate from your to do list, and what are the
activities that you will focus more of your energy on to get way more output with the less time what
those tasks will be?
That's my question for you.
And also what will be the things that you will do that that feel a little bit uncomfortable, that push
your comfort zone, but, you know, deep in your heart that if you do those things, you will take
your life to the next level.
I want you to really ponder it and then I want you to commit to performing those tasks.
My name is Jimmy and Rain has been a pleasure to be here with you.
Thank you so much.
Okay.
I just made it up.
Right?
This is just an example I literally made up right now, but it's not a bad example.
This is actually one way for you to finish your presentation.
This is a very specific example about speech, about productivity.
But you see, I, I made people think I made it slightly motivational, right?
You could see the change of my energy and I gave them something to ponder about.
And on top of that, I gave them an action step.
So when I finish the presentation, people are there in their seats thinking, Wow, yeah, that's a
good question.
Wondering what are the things that scare me that I should do more of, huh?
And he said that I should commit to doing those things.
Maybe I should make that phone call.
That's really important that I've been procrastinating on.
Maybe I should write that email.
Maybe I should do X, Y or Z.
You see what I'm doing here?
So so that's the action step that I wanted to trigger.
And again, every presentation is different.
You may be watching this.
Maybe you are an I.T. specialist.
Right.
And and your presentations are on completely different topics.
That's fine.
But the point I'm trying to make is that you can utilize the power of asking profound questions and
giving people action steps right at the end.
Another thing you could do is to share a motivational story, and it could be a story about yourself,
but it also could be a story of transformation about somebody else.
Now, at the end, one thing to keep in mind is that you don't make those stories too long.
Och longer stories are better placed in the middle of your presentation, or even at the beginning,
but you definitely don't want to tell.
Very, very long stories right at the end when you're wrapping up, remember?
Does it change of energy?
Right.
You start your presentation, the energy goes up and then you ride that wave.
And then you want to change the energy a little bit.
You want you want people to ease out of your presentation, but you can definitely use the power of
stars anyhow.
Hope that you enjoy this video.
I'm going to see you in the next one.

--- Basic Content Creation Strategies ---

Finally, the moment that a lot of you have been waiting for the content section.
Now I know that some of you I'm completely aware of this, that some people skipped all the previous
sections and you got right into this section because you want to build captivating content.
If that's the case, you know I'm happy that you're excited about it.
I still would urge you to go back and revisit the previous sections.
If you watched the previous sections and you got all the way here, congratulations.
It's incredible that you've been watching all of those videos and we're going to have a lot of fun on
this section because, hey, now we are actually designing your presentation.
You have the structure, you know where you are heading.
Well, now let's figure out how you can create a captivating content.
And then later on in the future sections, I'm going to teach you how you can practice the content,
how we can deliver it with confidence and charisma.
We will get into all of that as well.
But in this first video, I just want to tell you that there is no point of reinventing the wheel when
you are trying to create captivating content.
You see, a lot of people have this weird misconception that they don't have enough content in them.
A lot of people have the equivalent of the writer's block where they think about creating a presentation.
In fact, a lot of individuals that I know that are tremendous, that have so much knowledge and value
to deliver in so many experiences they've been telling me, Jimmy, listen, when I try to create presentations,
I find it really difficult to come up with any content.
I, I feel stuck.
I sometimes feel like I just don't have enough content in me.
But the reality is that we all already have a lot of content in us.
And if you are already watching this course, something tells me I have a feeling that you have a lot
of content in you.
You're just trying to unleash it out there into the world.
So start with picking the lowest hanging fruit.
Why climb a tree to to pick something?
If there is a lot of fruit around you that you can just pick, what do I mean by this?
Well, I'm sure that you have all the notepads.
I'm sure that you've been taking notes on your phone and on your computer.
I'm sure that you've been highlighting things in books.
I'm sure that you've been sharing pieces of content with your friends through messengers like WhatsApp,
for example.
So you have a lot of content that's already been created.
The problem is that it's scattered around, maybe somewhere on your laptop, maybe somewhere in your
notes, maybe somewhere on your phone.
But you already have that content.
So before you try to even create fresh content, why not dig into that?
Why not use those resources?
And by the way, this is what I do a lot, right?
Whenever I come over here to La Palma or other places to film, I try to pick those low hanging fruits.
I go for my notepads, I go from my laptop, I even go for my email because sometimes I send emails
to myself, would bits and pieces of content.
Sometimes I actually sometimes my friends would argue that I do it a lot.
I send a lot of audio messages to my friends with various ideas.
So sometimes I may be swimming in the ocean or doing a Thai boxing session or going to climbing gym
and afterwards us.
All of those endorphins are being released.
I get ideas and when I get ideas I like to share them.
So my good friends know very well that I often like to pick my phone and say, Hey, listen, Rob,
I got to tell you something.
Something came to my mind.
I think you're going to like it and bam, I share an idea.
Hey, Joanna, I got to tell you about something that I just thought about.
I think you're going to like it, and I create a lot of content like this, so.
And I do have moments when I feel that writer's block as well.
I do have moments when I feel like, you know what, I've made all of those videos.
What will I talk about?
Do I have enough content?
And that's when I realize, hold on a second, I have a lot of content.
So I go to my phone, I check my emails, I check my notes, I check all of that.
And I realize that there is a lot of content.
So I want you to start with that.
Also, in the previous section, I've been sharing with you my system for designing the structure of
your presentations.
I've been talking to you about this Post-it notes strategy where you do this idea generation.
You have a ton of different ideas on a piece of paper, right?
You put them in separate pieces of paper, then you rearrange everything.
Well, why not use that right?
This is the low hanging fruit.
I highly recommend that you revisit that outline and all of those other content pieces.
And as you look at them, you try to build content from that.
So rather than starting from scratch does make sense, right?
You already have your draft outline.
You should start from that base and then build on top of that.
Right.
If this is this is the base of the content piece, you want to create branches out of it.
There is another content piece.
You create some more branches.
That's how you want to create your content.
Anyhow, in this first video, I just wanted to tell you about it because I feel like a lot of people
are reinventing the wheel and necessarily.

--- "but Jimmy... my topic is boring! there is no way I can make it compelling..." ---

There are no boring topics, just boring presenters and really let that sink in.
And I'm talking about it because a lot of people have a misconception that, well, my topic is boring.
I'm an accountant, I'm an IT specialist.
Right.
How do I make it interesting?
I'm a lawyer, right?
I have to give a speech about something really complicated.
How can this be entertaining?
How can this possibly be captivating?
All of those topics are boring.
But again, the reality is that topics in themselves are not inherently boring.
It's just that the presenters make them boring.
And often the reason is that when we assume that our topic, our area of expertise is boring, well,
it becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy, right?
If you say to yourself right from the get go, well, this is going to be boring.
Like it has to be boring.
I'm a lawyer, right?
It has to be boring.
I'm an engineer.
It has to be boring.
I'm an IT person.
This cannot be interesting when you say those things to yourself, well, that becomes your reality
because you trap yourself in a box.
You are in this box and you are saying, well, this has to be boring, right?
It's more like a circle than what I'm showing.
Right.
But you're trapped here and there are so many possibilities out there.
But.
But you will never get out there, right?
Because you're bouncing off the walls of that box.
But the moment you entertain the idea that, well, what if I make my presentation interesting, fascinating,
exciting, right?
If you entertain that idea, you open your mind to it.
Well, suddenly you get out of that box, and there are all of those possibilities out there.
And honestly, you should get excited about it, because if you are in an industry that's perceived
to be boring, that's a massive opportunity for you.
Right?
For example, if you are an i.t person.
Right.
And I'm giving those examples because these are typically people who tell me, hey, man, sorry, Jimmy,
but I can't make an interesting presentation because because of my industry.
Right?
That's why I'm giving those examples.
So let's say that you do it and you want to deliver a presentation and you assume it's boring.
Well, here's such an opportunity because if you think outside the box, if you really work long and
hard on trying to make it entertaining, trying to make a difference, trying to make it outside the
box, maybe use some storytelling, some mystery, some interesting case studies, maybe a shock.
In fact, right, when you start thinking about those things, you will distinguish yourself from anyone
else in your industry, right?
Just imagine the look on people's faces when you get to the stage or you get in front of a crowd and
they know what the presentation will be about and everyone kind of assumes, yeah, probably will be
one of those boring presentations.
Again, I got to pull out my phone and then you start and people are captivated and they're just scratching
their heads thinking, how come this person is making it so interesting, right?
How is it even possible?
And don't you want to have that feeling?
Definitely right.
You want to have that feeling.
You want to know that you create that effect on people.
So I'm making this video because I want you to shift your mindset.
And I notice in my life as well as, as I've been presenting for many years in the past, honestly,
I just tried to get through it.
You know, my story now that I run away from a stage, you know, I had anxiety attacks, panic attacks,
you know, that I used to be terrified.
So at the beginning my only thoughts were, okay, what can I do to go through it and to survive the
survival mode and let me go from my presentation, actually come out on the other side without any scratches
and bruises, right.
Survival mode.
But then over the years, I realized, well, if I get stuck in a survival mode, I'll never deliver
a truly captivating presentation.
And I started doing something interesting, right?
So in the past, for example, I had this limiting belief that I can never be funny.
I'm not a funny guy.
I'm a serious guy.
So I was never funny, right?
I never used humor in my presentations.
And at some point I realized, hold on a second, this is just a limiting belief.
Let me get out of that box.
Let me just push away those corners and expand it or better yet, just just exploded and get out of
it and just see all of those possibilities that are around me.
And I gave myself permission to play around, experiment to try to be funny sometimes not not not forcing
myself to be funny, but allowing myself to at least try to be funny, be myself, right?
Just say whatever I feel like saying.
If I feel like it's aligned with whatever it is that I'm doing.
So.
So I gave myself the permission and some amazing things started happening.
Also, rather than just trying to survive, I tried to thrive.
I said to myself, okay, what can I do to make this the best presentation of the event?
The most valuable presentation, right?
So I started asking myself different questions.
What can I do so I can go to this event, get on a stage, deliver this presentation, and so people
can scratch their.
Head's thinking, wow.
This was incredible.
I didn't expect this.
I didn't even know who this guy is.
And this just incredible life changing, right?
What can I do to make that happen?
And when I started asking myself those questions, guess what?
Inevitably answers started comin to me because I gave myself the permission.
So give yourself permission to be great.
Give yourself permission to create an incredible content.
Raise the bar.

--- Smart HACK for Overcoming Procrastination to Write Content ---

So here's a very short extra video I wanted to make for you, because a lot of people have been asking
me.
So Jimi, I tend to procrastinate when I create my content, right?
I know my structure, I know the pieces of content I want to create and I want to write them down.
I want to create notes.
So then I can present I can practice my presentation using those notes.
That's great.
But the problem is that a lot of people struggle and procrastinate, but actually writing things down
and a lot of it has to do with perfectionism.
Now, we covered perfectionism before, so I want to give you a little hack that will definitely work
for you.
It's been working for me and it's just incredible.
Now there is a free app that you can get online.
It's called Cold Turkey Writer Turkey like the bird.
You know, cold turkey writer will try to link up the name in there in the video, but this app is free
now when you download it, by the way, I'm not sure if it works on all the devices.
I know it works on the Mac, but when you download it, you can essentially set the number of words
that you have to write before you can start using your laptop again.
And the way it works is you input the number of words, let's say 1000 words, you click start and then
it blocks your entire computer.
So even if you close your computer, you open it, open it up again, you see, wow, I have to write
a thousand words so I can use my laptop.
So guess what?
You have no other choice but to write.
Now, you don't know how many words you've written.
You just see the progress bar that just keeps going.
So you just have to keep writing.
You cannot copy and paste, so there is no way of going around it.
And the cool thing about it is that, you know, in the evening, for example, you can set it up for,
let's say 500, 1000 words, maybe even more than that.
If you if you want to challenge yourself and then you close your laptop in the evening and then the
next morning, when you wake up, you may have the temptation to check your email or do some other unproductive
task.
But then when you open your laptop, you realize, wow, I actually cannot do anything until I write
1000 words or one and one half thousand or whatever it is.
Right.
And guess what?
When you have no choice and you have other things you have to do now, there is a sense of urgency.
So you just start writing, right?
And you might say, well, but if I really want to write all of those words, I'm just going to start
writing random things.
Well, that's fine, because what's going to happen is even if you start writing random things about
what's happening, what you see, what you are thinking, well, that's journaling.
So essentially you end up journaling and know very well that once you get into it, at some point you
feel in the zone, at some point you feel like you're getting it in the flow state.
So by the time you finish writing, by the time your laptop unlocks itself right, you may feel like,
Well, I don't want to check Facebook anymore.
I don't want to go on Instagram anymore.
I don't want to check my email anymore.
I want to create content.
I'm in the zone.
I just spent the last 20 minutes writing.
I'm used to typing.
Now my, my, my brain is thinking fast.
I'm in the zone.
I want to make the most of it.
Let me make the most of it.
Bam, let me make some content called Turkey Writer.
Get it?
You will not regret it.
Now, what if you don't have a laptop?
And I'm aware that some people watching this course don't have a laptop.
I'm aware of the fact that people watching this course from all over the world then and some of you
don't have access to laptops.
I get those messages from you sometimes saying that, Hey, Jimmy, I come from Zimbabwe or I come from
Lesotho and I'm watching your courses on my phone and I'm really enjoying them.
Right.
So I'm aware of that.
If you don't have a laptop, you can simply maybe give something to one of your friends or one of your
family members, something that you really need.
And tell them, don't give it back to me until I prove to you that I've written X number of words,
right?
Or until I've written 20 pages right or whatever it is.
Right.
But you want to create some type of accountability that will force you to create content.
Accountability is so underrated.
You know, people often assume, well, if I say to myself, I'm going to do something, then I'm going
to do it.
People rely on their own discipline, but I feel like discipline is a little bit overrated.
Discipline is great.
Don't get me wrong, I believe in discipline.
I always try to cultivate my discipline, but it's also really difficult.
Let's face it, we all have those moments from time to time when we just feel weak.
We don't feel very disciplined.
I know that I have those moments from time to time and sometimes I hate to admit it, but I have those
days where when I just don't feel like doing anything.
And if that happens to you, well, the best thing to do is to embrace accountability, because the
great thing about accountability is that you really have no choice if you set it up correctly.
If, for example, you give a $10 bill or $20 bill to one of your friends that you trust, you don't
want to give it to a random person, somebody you trust, and you say, Hey, don't give it back to
me until I do X, Y or Z, right?
And if I don't do it in the next 48 hours, the money is yours, right?
You could, for example, do that, or you could give one of your family members the key to your car.
And you know, you need your car tomorrow and you say, listen, until I show you that I've written
ten pages, you cannot give me back the car keys.
There are so many.
Clever idea.
So many ideas outside of the box that you can come up with to create accountability.
That is unbelievable.
But it's going to force you to create content.

--- The Power of Storytelling ---

Let's talk about the power of storytelling.
Now, storytelling is one of the most important things you can do in any presentation.
Now, obviously, it also depends on the type of presentation.
If you are presenting, if you are doing a keynote, for example, at a conference and you want to speak
about business lessons and things like that, you may want to add several different stories.
If you are doing a very technical presentation in your company, for example, you may think, Well,
why should I even use stories?
It's technical, and I agree that stories are not that important in this type of presentation, but
I still encourage you to try to at least implement some storytelling because very often through the
power of stories, we can take something that's very complex, something that's really difficult to
understand, and we can make it simple for people to grasp.
And when you think about a storytelling has been around for centuries, not even centuries, for millennia,
right?
This is how we used to convey information and knowledge throughout centuries, from generation to generation.
It's the power of storytelling, right?
You see, you could share a bunch of facts with people, but they are not very likely to remember everything.
But if you use the power of story, right, if you if you try to portray certain lessons or certain
facts within a story, it's much easier for people to remember.
So you don't even have to write things down.
You can share a long, captivating story and people can pass it on and on and on.
So as humans, we are hardwired to like stories.
You know, whenever there's a story time, everyone gets excited.
Obviously, as long as the presenter is doing the right job sharing a story.
But I'm sure that you remember that as a kid, whenever there was the story time, you got really excited.
You get really exhilarated.
You couldn't wait, right?
Because when people share stories, they take you on a ride.
It's almost like you enter a different dimension for a moment.
You forget about the reality and you just go out there in your own mind.
You take a journey, and that's exactly what you want to do as a presenter.
You want to evoke emotions.
You want to you want to create stories that will captivate people, that will take people on a ride,
that will take people on this emotional roller coaster, because that's how you will truly engage people
and build that build that bond with them and make your presentations memorable.
And that's very important, right?
Because ultimately what you want is people to leave the presentation room feeling like they've learned
something, but also being able to remember the things that you talked about.
So, for example, let's say that I'm giving a speech and one of the main points I'm trying to make
is that you shouldn't care too much about what people think, right?
Because if you care about what people think, if you tried to please everyone, well, you will end
up pleasing nobody.
Now, I could talk about it in this way or I could share a story.
And there's actually a really cool story.
You know, it's a very old parable that I'm going to share with you right now.
And it's about a father, a son and a donkey.
And it's really interesting.
It's very impactful.
So father, son and a donkey, they were gone for their village to to the market, a very long journey.
So as they were walking, you know, at some point, you know, people looked at them and they started
laughing.
Passers by whispered, look at those crazy people.
You know, they have a donkey, but they are not using it.
That that doesn't make any sense, you know.
So Father said no.
What?
Son, they have a good point.
Jump on a donkey.
You're going to ride the donkey now.
So son jumped on a donkey to keep walking.
But at some point some other people passed them by and they started whispering, Huh?
Look at this bad son.
You know, his poor old father has to walk while he is riding a donkey.
So guess what they did?
They switched right now.
The father went on a donkey and his son kept walking.
But as they were passing another village, people kept pointing fingers at them, saying, Look at Daddy
noticed this father is riding a donkey while his poor son has to walk.
That's so bad.
So guess what they did?
They decided to both ride a donkey.
Both of them got on top of the donkey.
But inevitably, in a short period of time, some other people started pointing their fingers saying,
Look at that.
That's animal cruelty.
That's that poor donkey.
No, it's a sunny day.
That poor donkey is really struggling with two people on its back.
That is unacceptable.
So guess what they did?
They jumped off the donkey and they realized, well, maybe those people have a point.
The donkey is pretty tired, so they decided to carry the donkey.
Now, obviously donkeys are pretty heavy animals, so it was very difficult for them to keep the balance.
And as they were crossing the bridge above the river, sadly they slipped and the donkey fell into the
river and died.
And as they were walking back home, very sad, of course they lost the donkey.
The father looked at the son and said, If you try to please everyone, you will please no one.
Right?
So that's the moral of the story.
Now, I probably could have shared the story in a more compelling manner.
Probably wasn't the best storytelling in the world.
Part of it is that I.
Keep seeing those dark clouds on the corazon.
And I know it's going to rain any time.
And I really want to finish this video before it starts raining.
But the point is this while I was telling you the story, you could probably see it, right?
You could probably see it in your mind.
You probably saw the father just son and a donkey.
It's actually a pretty entertaining story.
It's pretty funny to see how far people can go to please others, and it makes a lot of sense.
And I bet that you will not forget this story.
Right?
So there is a story and there is a point that the story supports.
The point is that you shouldn't care too much about what other people think.
If you try to please everyone, you'll please nobody and you will fail and you will start making mistakes.
But if I just keep talking about not caring what people think, the chances are you would forget about
it.
But because I share this story, because I made it vivid in your head, well, now you're going to remember
and this is the power of storytelling.
So I highly encourage you that you share stories.
There could be your stories.
There could be stories from your life, from your experiences, but you could also share the stories
of other people.
As you tell your stories, you want to make sure that there are certain structure to them and there
are different frameworks for storytelling.
You know, delving deep into it is beyond the scope of this course because quite frankly, storytelling
is a huge topic and we could literally make a separate course about it.
Now, the most important thing about storytelling is that you have to have that intro, you have to
have the core of the story, and you have to have the conclusion.
One of the biggest mistakes you can make is to get right into the story without without introducing
people to the story or just cutting the story short.
You ever had a situation where you're sharing a story and at some point you stop and people are like.
That's it.
Like, are you continuing or.
That was that it.
You know, it can be very confusing sometimes.
So you want to make sure that you introduce the story, you develop it, and then you end it.
So at the beginning of a story, you want to give people a glimpse into what it's all about.
You want to tell people when it happened and where it happened, and who are the main characters you
want?
You want to give people a glimpse, an introduction into what the story is all about, and then you
want to develop the core of the story.
You you want to introduce some type of a challenge, some type of an issue that has to be solved, right?
So once you do that, once you introduce a challenge, well, now you want to introduce the resolution
of that challenge.
And after the resolution, typically you want to add a lesson in there or some type of conclusion.
So essentially you want to introduce the story, you want to get into the core resolution of the challenge,
and then you want to finish with the conclusion.
So everyone knows exactly when the story began and when the story ended.

--- The Power of Storytelling Part 2 ---

Okay.
So this is the part two of the video about storytelling.
So as you tell your stories, you want to make sure that there is a certain structure to them.
And, you know, there are different frameworks for storytelling.
You know, delving deep into it is beyond the scope of this course because quite frankly, storytelling
is a huge topic and we could literally make a separate course about it.
Now, the most important thing about storytelling is that you have to have that intro, you have to
have the core of the story, and you have to have the conclusion.
One of the biggest mistakes you can make is to get right into the story without without introducing
people to the story or just cutting the story short.
You ever had a situation where you're sharing a story and at some point you stop and people are like.
That's it.
Like, are you continuing or that?
Was that it?
You know, it can be very confusing sometimes.
So you want to make sure that you introduce the story, you develop it, and then you end it at the
beginning of a story.
You want to give people a glimpse into what it's all about.
You want to tell people when it happened and where it happened, and who are the main characters you
want?
You want to give people a glimpse, an introduction into what the stories are about, and then you want
to develop the core of the story.
You you want to introduce some type of a challenge, some type of an issue that has to be solved, right?
So once you do that, once you introduce a challenge, well, now you want to introduce the resolution
of that challenge.
And after the resolution, typically you want to add a lesson in there or some type of conclusion.
So essentially you want to introduce the story, you want to get into the core resolution of the challenge,
and then you want to finish with the conclusion.
So everyone knows exactly when the story began and when the story ended.

--- “What if I Don’t Have Stories?” ---

So a lot of people tell me, Jimmy, look, I agree with you.
Storytelling is powerful.
You can captivate your audience with the power of stories, but I don't have any stories.
You know, you may have your stories because you travel the world.
You do all of those different things.
But me, I don't have many stories that I could share on a stage, and I urge you to reconsider.
No matter who you are watching this video, we all have stories.
We all have stories.
The only problem is that we don't identify them for what they are.
But we all have stories in our lives, and sometimes the best stories are not very elaborate.
Sophisticated, right?
Sometimes the best stories are those simple stories.
But it's not about the raw material itself.
It's about how you convey it.
Right.
Something really simple could have happened to you, right?
Maybe you met a stranger and there's some weird synchronicity happening.
And it didn't happen in some exotic location, right?
There's no hero in that story.
There is no life saving event.
But it could be a compelling story.
It depends how you convey it, how you narrate it.
So what I want to do in this video is I want to encourage you to really dig deep and ask yourself,
okay, what stories could I share?
What are some of the stories that happen to me in my life?
And I'm sure that as you meet with your friends from time to time, you share different stories.
And I bet that you had moments, at least at some point, you had those moments when you shared some
type of story, whether it was 30 seconds or 20 minutes with a friend or two.
And they were laughing and they were fully engaged and they kept asking, Hey, so what happened next?
Tell me what happened next.
I bet you had those situations.
So the only thing you have to do is you have to recreate it when you got on a stage.
Now, the problem a lot of people face is that they have this misconception that presenting on a stage
is dramatically different than talking to regular people and regular life people feel like when you
get on a stage, you have to have your stage persona and you become a completely different person.
But what people don't realize is that some of the best presenters are authentic.
When you see them on the stage and off the stage, people often say, Well, you seem like the same
person.
It's incredible.
I feel like I'm talking to that person from the stage.
You are not different.
And in fact, this is one of the biggest compliments you can get as a speaker.
When you get off the stage, you chat with people and they tell you, Wow, you are literally that person
that I've been watching on a stage and on the videos.
You are being yourself.
That's one of the biggest compliments.
So anyhow, what I'm trying to say here is that you already have stories in you for real, you already
have stories in you.
You just have to dig deep, realize that this is the case, and just start looking for those stories
and and try to figure out how you can read them in a compelling way.

--- ACTION STEP: Create a “Story Bank” (the WHY & HOW) ---

Okay.
So now that we talked about the fact that you already have stories, when you let's actually figure
out what type of stories do you have.
So in this video, I would like to urge you to perform a really powerful exercise.
And by the way, this is something that you don't just do once you keep doing it consistently and it's
creating a story back, you definitely have to have a story back as a presenter.
It's so important.
And by the way, there are so many other benefits beyond the presentation skills.
So what is a story bank?
Well, it's a bank where you write down all types of stories that happened in your life and you can
do it in a variety of ways.
You can have a physical notepad, but you can also open some type of word document on your computer.
For example, I like to use the numbers app on my MacBook, and the way you do it is whenever some type
of interesting story happens in your life, whether it's one of those super short stories or maybe something
more elaborate, you just jot it down.
Now, we don't have to write the full story, but we want to have some type of prompt.
So when you look at it a year later, two years later, five years later, when you read those few sentences
describing the story, you will remember exactly what happened in that situation.
So to give an example, as of now, it's 2022.
I'm filming this video.
I have over 600 different stories written down over 600 just in one document.
And by the way, and I have way more stories that I haven't written down, sadly, there are so many
stories that that happened to me in my life that I haven't written down yet.
But I tried to force myself.
I said those reminders that from time to time I open that document.
It's a numbers app.
I just open it up and ask myself, okay, what happened over the last few weeks?
What are some of the stories that happened?
And some of the things that I write down are really simple stories like really, really simple stories.
For example, one time in Barcelona, I was I was riding my scooter, right?
I rented one of those scooters and I was going to a bachata class and there was a lady running on the
street and she was panic.
And so I stopped and I, I asked her, Hey, what is happening?
Is everything fine?
And she said, I lost my dog.
My dog is just run away somewhere.
I need to find find him.
So I said, hey, just jump on the scooter.
Let's, let's find him together.
Right?
Let's go for it.
So she jumped behind me and we were just riding around trying to find a dog.
Anyhow, not going to make this story too long now, but that's one example, little tiny story that
happened on that day.
I bet that if I didn't write it down, I just wouldn't have remembered that particular story.
And there are hundreds and hundreds of them.
And you may be asking, well, what does it have to do with public speaking, presenting, with video
presenting?
Well, when you have your story back, when you have a lot of different stories from from various situations
in your life, as you are designing your presentation, if you feel like you need a story to support
a point, or maybe you need a specific story to to introduce who you are or maybe a certain phase of
your life, whatever it is you need a story to portray something.
You can simply open up your physical notepad or go either to your numbers app or the word document or
whatever it is that you are using to write down your stories.
And you can go through your story back and ask yourself, Okay, which one of those stories could I
potentially use?
And obviously initially you will not have a lot of those stories, right?
You got to start somewhere.
You will have 1 to 5, ten.
You will slowly build up, but eventually you will get to the point where you will have a lot of different
stories written down.
And this way, whenever you have to create any piece of content, not just given a presentation, but
maybe making a video or writing an article, whatever it is, you can simply tap into the story bank.
You can look for what you already have.
And instead of reinventing the wheel and trying to figure out something out of the blue, you'll be
able to have a little cheat sheet to see what you already have in there that you can then reuse.
And the great thing about stories is that, well, if these are your stories, you already know them.
There is nothing to remember.
That's a beautiful thing about storytelling that, you know, when you do a typical presentation, well,
you have to remember certain things.
But when you're telling a story, the only thing you need is just a prompt, right?
You just need to think about that story that happened to you.
And the rest will just go naturally because you clearly know your story.
So anyhow, what I want you to do right now, because otherwise I have a feeling that a lot of you may
just procrastinate.
Leave it for later.
Right now I want you to take a piece of paper and just think about three only three interesting stories
that happened to you over the last few months.
Only free stories if you can do more.
Awesome.
That's just a bonus.
But think about three different stories.
And again, it doesn't have to be anything sophisticated.
It doesn't have to be anything groundbreaking.
Doesn't have.
A story of you rescuing somebody from a raging ocean.
It can be something super simple, but write down three of those and that's going to be a very good
start.
And then you can build up on top of that.

--- You Can Make 2+2 Equal 22 ---

As you are designing the content of your presentation, it's very important that you avoid the temptation
to just dump as much information as possible on your audience.
And I'm saying this because a lot of people, including myself, have this temptation to showcase our
knowledge, to showcase our experiences.
So so you have a 30 minute presentation.
It's very easy to fall into the trap of just trying to squeeze as much content as possible.
And I had those situations in the past when, for example, somebody would tell me, Hey, listen,
we want you to come over and to speak for our company and you will have 30 minutes, right?
And as I was designing my content, right, I had my structure.
I knew what my audience was about.
I would have that temptation of trying to put as much as possible into that presentation, because we
often think that the more the better, right?
So instead of doing two stories, you want to do five stories, right?
Instead of presenting just one case study, you want to do maybe six different case studies.
And it's the temptation that a lot of us have because we just want to do our best, right?
We want to give as much value as possible.
And we often equate value with, hey, do more, do better.
But it doesn't work like that.
Because if you try to add too much content into your presentation, the chances are you will be rushing
through it as you get in there in front of people, rather than taking it in and focusing on the right
body language and the right connection, the right energy that you create.
And also pausing from time to time, you feel like, Wow, I have so many things I have to talk about.
I just have to rush through it.
And it's one of the biggest mistakes that presenters make.
They just rush for everything, and it probably not is.
I'm sure you attended presentations like this where midway through the presentation the speaker says
something, Oh, oh wow.
I realize I have very little time.
Let me quickly go through this.
Let me skip this slide.
And you see that they are almost panicking because they realize that they completely miscalculated how
much time they need to present.
So what I want you to do as you are designing your content.
Sure.
At the beginning, as I told you before, you want to do your idea generation.
You want to you want to have as many things as possible in order, but then you want to select very
carefully and if in doubt, you want to have less done more.
Typically, as we are creating our presentations.
When you are practicing, I'm going to talk about it more in the practice section.
If it takes you, let's say 10 minutes to practice something, when you get on a stage, the chances
are it will take you 12 or 15 minutes, right?
Because when we practice, we typically speak faster.
We don't account for the extra stress, we don't account for the maybe back and forth with the audience.
We don't account for that.
So it's important that you consider this as you are designing your presentation.
Now, when you're building content, always ask yourself, What can I do to make two plus two equal
22?
I know it may sound a bit strange, right?
I mean, two plus two is for me, obviously, right?
But when you present, when you deliver incredible content, you essentially make two plus two equal
22, right?
You bend reality to your world.
You create a situation that, you know, if it's a one hour presentation, whatever information you
give to that audience within that one hour, what is a written text or a transcript?
They will not get as much value from it as when they are listening to you and tuning into that presentation.
Right is the synergy that's happening when you put everything together, your content, your storytelling,
your body language, your energy, the overall energy that you create in the room, that's what you
want to create.
So keep that in mind and I'll see you in the next video.

--- One of the Biggest Mistakes To Avoid ---

One of the most important rules of any presentation is that you shouldn't be using jargon.
Now, there are some exceptions to this rule.
Of course, if you are doing a very complicated presentation for an ultra specific audience, you may
have to use some really, really big words.
But but here's what I mean by jargon, right?
Obviously, sometimes you have to use those big words, but it's about the intention behind the use
of those words.
Now, if you are using complicated vocabulary of phrases, all types of terminology, because it actually
adds to your presentation, because it's something that you just have to use in order for people to
understand what you are talking about.
That makes perfect sense, right?
It makes sense.
You should definitely go for it.
But the problem is that a lot of us are using big words.
Not because we have to, not because it adds to our presentations in terms of the value, but because
using big words in a way, sometimes subconsciously, sometimes we are not even aware of it.
It just makes us feel important, right?
You may use that big vocabulary and you feel like, wow, I'm like this professor, I'm important.
I know those big words.
I'm using them in my presentation.
I feel important.
I feel good.
If that's the intention behind it, you should definitely avoid it because people can sense it myself.
You know, I've seen so many different speeches.
I've been working with so many different presenters.
I can sense pretty much right away when someone is using big words, not because that person wants to
give value to the audience, but because they simply want to show off.
They they want everyone to think, wow, look at that speaker.
That person is so amazing.
That person is so educated, right?
But people can read it.
People can read through it.
And you definitely don't want to create a situation where your audience looks at you and they are thinking,
well, yeah, the speaker is, you know, they seem full of themselves a little bit.
Right?
They're using this big vocabulary.
It's not necessary here.
And in fact, the more simple it is, the better.
And when you look at some of the biggest experts out there, some of the best speakers and professors,
what they have in common is that they don't overcomplicate things.
In fact, they can take extremely complicated concepts and they can transform them into something really
simple so a regular person can understand it.
So that's the power of true presenting where you can take something complex and make it simple for people.
This is the power, right?
So so if that person didn't attend your presentation, maybe they would need five or 10 hours to understand
that concept.
And because you are such an expert, because you can break it down so well, that person can understand
it.
And literally 1/20 of their time.
So remember about it.
I know that this is not relevant to everyone, but in case you have that temptation deep inside to use
big words, just skip it, keep it as simple as possible.
And this way you will be more captivating and the audience will resonate with you more.
And by the way, remember, the most important word you can use in any presentation is you, not I.
I've done this.
I've done that.
I'm amazing.
No, you.
Right.
This is how I want to help you.
This is what you can do, right?
You want to use you.
You always want to address the audience.
So do you enjoy this video?
Hope that you've been enjoying the views as well, and I'll see you in the next one.

--- The Single Best Way to Practice ---

So when you practice your presentation, one of the most important things you have to remember about
is that you have to practice out loud.
There is no going around it.
A lot of people have this misconception that it's simply enough to write things down and then read it
and just read your notes and then maybe change a few things and region notes again and then put together
your PowerPoint or keynote slides, go through them in your own head.
But the problem is that, you know, if if you practice just in your own head, you can't even hear
your voice.
You cannot truly feel the flow of the presentation.
And one of the reasons why people don't want to practice out loud is because they are afraid.
Right.
And it's weird.
It's it's counterintuitive.
Right.
Because why should you be afraid of your own voice while you're practicing without any people around?
After working with a lot of different speakers, I discovered that a lot of them have this pressure,
right?
That, you know, when I get on a stage I'll have to present is going to be extremely uncomfortable
then you know, I may as well leave that feeling for that situation.
Why would I want to feel it beforehand?
Right.
People don't want to put themselves into a situation where they feel uncomfortable.
But again, it's counterintuitive because if you don't practice, if you just practice in your hat,
which is not real practice, then when you get on that stage or when you appear in front of your team
members, you will not feel truly confident because you never uttered the words that are in your presentation.
So the only way to really develop this verbal fluidity, right, to be more flexible in your delivery,
to be more powerful, more charismatic.
Well, the only way is to practice out loud.
And it's so surprising that so many people, even leaders, even leaders who are doing extremely well,
they don't realize the importance of it.
So to give you an example, recently I went to Prague.
I spent quite a bit of time there because one of my projects is actually based there.
And as I walked into the office, I met this really cool lawyer.
So she's actually pretty famous within her industry.
She gives a lot of different presentations and it happened that on that day she was given a presentation,
so she was doing her thing in a corner.
So at some point I just walked up to her, introduce myself very briefly, and I was about to do my
own thing in a different office, in a different room.
And then one of the employees sitting there, he said, Oh wow, it's your lucky day because GB is actually
an expert in public speaking.
And you know, when she heard that, her eyes got really big and I just started smiling because I know
that look right.
Like she clearly, you know, she was in trouble.
She was about to deliver a presentation.
And then she found out that I'm an expert at this and I had some time.
So ask her, Hey, I'm just curious, so what are you going to be presenting about?
And we talked about it and she seemed a little bit stressed out, which is normal, right?
I mean, it's normal that before a big presentation you have a bit of stress.
But then ask her, how many times did you practice and how did you practice?
And she said, Well, I'm just writing things down and I'm just reading my notes and I'm reading my
slides.
And I said, Hold on a second.
Haven't you practice out loud at all?
Like, didn't you do any of that?
And she said, No, I didn't know that I meant to do it.
I figured it's it's okay if I just go for my slides.
And I said, No, that's not how you do it.
You got to practice out loud.
And I was especially surprised because in that particular office, we have a lot of different rooms,
you know, we have a conference room.
So it will be so easy for her just to walk into any of them, stand, imagine the audience and practice.
And she still didn't do it.
She still didn't do it right.
So of course, I talk to her.
I taught her some of the strategies that I'm going to be discussing in this session.
And to make the long story short, she delivered an incredible presentation.
But and the reason I share this particular story you will use, because I want to show you that even
a person like this, somebody really successful in their field, somebody would experience in public
speaking, didn't know about the importance of practicing out loud.
So if you didn't know about it either, don't feel bad, okay?
Don't feel too bad.
Don't mentally slap yourself.
It's okay.
Most people don't.
But this is the new beginning for you because from now on you will start practicing out loud.
And in the next few videos I'm going to share with you exactly different ways to practice effective.

--- The Solution to: “I wish I had more time!” Issue ---

I want to ask you a question.
So have you ever had a situation, especially back in the day when you were at school, when the teacher
gave you some type of presentation to deliver and you had a deadline?
Right.
You knew that the presentation will happen on Friday and that you prepped a little bit.
But obviously, as we all do, we procrastinated.
And then on the day of the presentation, right before, you just kept practicing and kept reviewing
everything.
And then the next thing you know, you go in front of everyone and you realize, Wow, if I only had
a few more hours, I would have done much better.
And if I only had two more days, I would have done extremely well.
Now I ask you if it ever happened to you at school, but sadly, those situations also happen in our
professional lives, even though, well, as the name says, we should be professional.
So if you have a presentation, we should actually prep for it well in advance.
But very often we don't do it right.
We have other things.
We are juggling various tasks.
We want to be in ten different places at once.
We all struggle with getting things done.
So we postpone, we push things away.
And often what happens is that whenever you are delivering a presentation, there's this voice at the
back of your head telling you, Ha, you should have done this earlier, right?
What if you just had one extra day, even three extra hours?
It would have made all the difference.
And I have to say, even nowadays, although it doesn't happen often, I do have those situations.
Sometimes when I'm presenting, for example, making those courses or getting on a stage and there's
that little voice in my head whispering, Well, it's going really well, but if you only had one extra
day, just one extra day, or even three extra hours of preparation or getting yourself into the right
state would have made some difference.
So for that reason, I encourage you to use a really interesting psychological trick and it's creating
a fake deadline may sound crazy, but just bear with me.
It really works.
So if you know that you have to give a presentation, let's say in five days from now, well, you will
be preparing as if you have five days until your presentation.
And the chances are again, we all do it that you will miscalculate and you will not have enough time
to properly go through everything, to practice enough time.
So you really feel like a winner when you get on that stage.
So rather than just sticking to that real deadline, what I want you to do is I want you to create a
fake deadline.
So in this example, if you have to deliver a presentation in five days, well, imagine that your presentation
is in three days.
Like let's imagine it not just that, put it in your calendar, put it in your calendar and brainwash
yourself that this is the reality.
Now you may retort, Well, Jimmy, this is crazy.
This may work for teenagers, but not for me, because obviously I know that I'm lying to myself.
But let's face it, we all lie to ourselves from time to time, right?
How many times you have to do something?
You know it's urgent, but then you lie to yourself that, well, it's actually not that urgent.
You don't have to do it right.
Or perhaps, you know, you have health issues and you shouldn't be drinking that Coca-Cola and eating
fries and that burger.
But, well, you lie to yourself and you say, well, you know what?
I went for this long walk so I can afford to eat it, right?
So as humans, well, we lie to ourselves as a defense mechanism, so why not lie to yourself a little
bit in order to improve yourself, to improve your performance?
So this really works.
I'm telling you, if you if you put enough effort, you can actually brainwash yourself that your presentation
is happening but earlier and then you can adjust your schedule as if that deadline is happening and
three days versus five days.
And if you do that well, you're going to put extra effort.
And then what's going to happen is once that day comes, you will realize, well, I'm actually prepared,
maybe not fully, but I'm prepared.
And that's when you kind of snap back realizing, wow, but hold on for a second.
I have two extra days.
Wow, I have two extra days.
And if somebody put a gun to my head and said, you have to deliver this presentation right now, I
would be able to do it.
Wow, that's incredible.
I would be able to do it and I still have two extra days.
Let's see what I can do with this extra time.
And that's how you take your presentations from really good to amazing.
Okay so use this technique is very simple.
May sound a bit funny, but it actually works.
I've been using it so many times.
I keep using it.
So hey, if it works then then you may as well try it yourself.

--- How To “TEST” Your Content ---

I really hope that you will enjoy this video because it's about practicing in a different way.
It's one of those things that most people never think about.
But there is one way to practice your presentations using your everyday situations, and this is how
you can also calibrate what works and what doesn't.
Now, most people think that when they practice, they simply have to take their notes and either read
them in their heads or just read them out loud.
But they never consider that you can practice different pieces of your presentation in everyday social
situations.
You can practice them with friends, with family members, and with strangers.
And no, I'm not saying that you you have to tell all of your friends to gather together, sit in front
of you, and then you deliver your presentation.
I'm not talking about that, but I'm talking about trying to tap into different bits and pieces that
will appear in your presentation and use them in various situations.
So for example, when you are talking to one of your family members, you can intertwine whatever you
are talking about with one of the points that you will be making in your presentation.
Or for example, you are talking to one of your friends and maybe there's a story that you will be sharing
on a stage.
Well, you can share that story with your friend.
You don't even have to say, by the way, I want to share with you something that I'm going to be sharing
on a stage because I want to practice.
You don't have to say that.
You can just say something in lines or, hey, you know, there's really interesting story that that
happened to me.
I would like to share it with you and then you share it the way you would share it on a stage.
If there is a case study that you plan to share or maybe there is some type of quote that you want to
talk about you in your presentation or an interesting fact or whatever it is.
Well, you can share it with people around you in real life.
And the good thing about it is that is very low stakes.
You don't have to tell them what you are doing, right.
You don't have to announce.
By the way, I'm practicing for my presentation now.
You are simply practicing by interacting with them.
But what's going to happen is, first of all, you'll become better at your delivery.
You will become more comfortable at delivering those separate pieces of content.
But secondly, you will get valuable feedback because for example, let's say that you want to deliver
a specific story in your presentation.
Well, if you share that story with a group of friends and you realize that no one is really tuning
in, no one is laughing, and maybe some of the people are kind of disengaged.
They are not paying full attention.
Maybe that's a red flag.
Maybe that tells you something about the story that you that you are sharing.
Maybe it means that you need to tweak something about that story.
Maybe it's the content, perhaps it's the flow, maybe it's the delivery.
But whatever it is, you know, the feedback, the nonverbal feedback of your friends tells you that
maybe that story is not ready for the presentation yet.
Maybe there is something you can do about it.
On the flip side, perhaps you're sharing something with a family member and that person is laughing
or they are fully engaged and they just keep nodding their heads and they keep asking you more and more
questions what that tells you that that piece of content is working.
On top of that, if you are sharing a particular piece of content with somebody, if they keep asking
you follow up questions, that may give you a glimpse into what your audience will be thinking about.
Right?
If you share something and that person asks you, Oh, but why did that happen?
Or What is the origin of this?
Or whatever?
The question is, that may give you an idea of some of the content pieces that you should add into that
particular content piece.
Right?
Maybe maybe you should expand it with something else to make.
The long story short, what I'm trying to say in this video and you should definitely use it, is that
you don't just have to practice by yourself in front of a mirror or in front of your phone.
You can actually practice in everyday situations with people that you enjoy spending time with, and
in many cases, this type of practice will give you the most benefits.

--- Lessons from Demosthenes, a famous (Ancient) Greek Orator ---

What's going on.
I really hope that you've been enjoying those videos so far and as you can see, we are in a brand new
spot.
Part of it is that it's really beautiful.
We have the ocean behind me, but at the same time, this is the only spot today on the island that
is not raining anyhow.
Let's get into it.
So in this particular video, I want to talk to you about practicing and the less than ideal environment.
So what do I mean by this?
Well, usually when we practice, we like to practice in a very controlled environment.
Most people, they read for their notes.
They sometimes speak them out loud in the comfort of their own homes.
No one is around to distract them.
Nobody is around to make them feel uncomfortable.
However, when you present in front of a real audience, you never really know what's going to happen.
You can never be 100% sure.
Maybe somebody's phone will start ringing.
Maybe people will start walking in and out and there will be some commotion or some weird sound from
from outside of the window.
You never really know exactly what's going to happen.
And that's why I believe that it is important to always prep yourself in the less than ideal environment,
to try to embrace a little bit of discomfort as you are practicing your presentation.
So if everything goes well, you will feel incredible, right?
Because you practice in discomfort.
So now you feel like, wow, this is so easy, right?
Everything is going well.
But if something happens, if the situation is less than ideal, at least you are prepared for it.
So for example, myself, I like to practice in all types of environments.
For example, when I'm in a place like this by the ocean, if the waves are really strong, sometimes
I like to go for a walk by the ocean where, you know, the ocean is almost deafening sometimes when
the waves are big.
And I practice my presentations as I'm walking along and it's not easy, especially when you do it for
the first time, it's really not easy because you are walking, so you are focusing on that.
You hear all of the sounds of the ocean, you're trying to dodge the waves and at the same time you
are delivering your presentations.
Also, one of the other things that I do in cities is I like to put my headphones in just so people
don't think that I'm crazy, right?
Because if you just walk through the city and talk to yourself without any headphones, people may call
the police on you.
So I put my headphones, but I'm not talking to anybody.
People assume that I'm talking to someone, but they don't really know that.
I'm just practicing my presentation and I'm literally walking around the city, right, exploring the
city, going through the traffic lights while practicing my presentation.
And it can be really distracting, right?
You're waiting to cross the road.
You know, lots of people come in and it's not easy to focus on the flow of your presentation, but
because you practice like this, you are ready for pretty much anything.
I guarantee you that after practicing in situations like this, when you later get on a stage and it's
completely quiet and everyone is tuning in, it will seem so, so easy for you to deliver your presentation.
And a good analogy here can be driving your car.
So if you jump into your car right now and you start driving it 40 kilometers per hour and a really
narrow road, it's going to feel like it's very fast, right?
However, if you go on a bigger road, you go 120 kilometers per hour and then you slow down to 40.
It's going to feel extremely slow, right, because everything is relative and we want to take advantage
of that.
So so when you practice and the less than ideal environment, you will prep yourself for anything that
could possibly happen to you.
So I'd like to share with you a very inspiring story now when you really think about it.
The ancient Greece was the birthplace of public speaking.
You know, people like Socrates and Plato came from there.
And there is another fellow that came from Greece, and his name was Demosthenes.
So Demosthenes, his father, was very rich.
He was a very wealthy man.
But sadly, he died when Demosthenes was just a couple of years old.
So his father's friends took custody of him.
She took all the money, but he wasn't very good to Demosthenes.
Actually, he has never seen any of his father's money.
Basically, his new legal guardian took all of that money and he gambled it away.
So even though Demosthenes was a very fragile kid, his body was really, really weak.
And at the same time he had a speech impediment.
He couldn't pronounce the letter.
Ah, she was stuttering from time to time.
He definitely wasn't a born presenter, you know, because of what he experienced, because his legal
guardians took all of that money that pretty much belonged to him and gambled it away.
She got really mad and he decided, You know what, I'm committing myself to becoming the best speaker
out there.
So I can go out there to the court and I can tell people the truth and I can I can get that money back.
So he embarked on this crazy journey, you know, Rocky like journey of just trying to become an incredible
presenter.
And imagine you have a speech impediment.
You are stuttering, you are very weak at shoulder issues.
Right.
It's a bunch of different issues that this kid was experiencing.
But he.
This resolve.
He had this discipline and he decided, I'm going to do whatever it takes to become an amazing presenter.
And actually, now we are in a perfect place to share this story because we are here by the Atlantic
Ocean.
And I see a lot of small pebbles over there.
So one of the ways he was training public speaking and one of the ways he was trying to improve his
voice was literally putting a lot of pebbles into his mouth and then trying to speak.
I'd imagine that.
Right.
Putting pebbles in your mouth.
Trying to speak.
Now, the reason he was doing it is because he was trying to develop a more clear diction.
Right.
Also, he would go by the ocean and when the waves were big, he would be shouting against the waves
and against the wind.
Right.
So these are just some of the examples of of the things that he did.
Also, she would she would run and he would get out of breath.
And then while he couldn't breathe, he would try to speak.
He would try to recite different, different passages.
Right.
So and at some point, he went as far as shaving half of his head.
And the reason he did that was because she wanted to force himself to stay in his place.
He didn't want to go out there on the streets interacting with people.
She wanted to stay in his lap, basically practicing reading, creating speeches, not to make the long
story short, he became an incredible presenter.
He became really, really famous in ancient Greece, and he was perceived to be one of the best presenters
ever.
What a crazy story, right?
Think about it.
If a fragile kid with a speech impediment kind of become an incredible presenter for this sheer power
of dedication and discipline and perseverance, but clearly anything is possible.
And that's just one example, right?
There are a lot of different people out there who have managed to overcome the odds.
And, you know, if you look at them back in the day, you would say, well, that person will never
become a great presenter, but they made it happen.
But the reason I'm sharing this story with you is because I really wanted to portray how important it
is to practice in uncomfortable situations.
And you're probably wondering, okay, Jimmy, so are you using Demosthenes techniques?
And the simple answer is, Yes, I do.
Yes, I do.
Now, disclaimer I never put pebbles in my mouth.
Okay, I'm here by the beach, Atlantic Ocean.
I see a lot of pebbles.
I'm not going to put them in my mouth.
I like my teeth too much.
However, I've been doing a lot of practice where, for example, I would be doing jumping jacks and
jumping squats and push ups until the point where I get out of breath.
And as I feel my heart pounding really fast, I would practice my presentation.
And this is, by the way, incredible, because if you're one of those people who suffer from, you
know, your heart beating fast or getting out of breath and stressful situations, feeling this panicky
feeling when when you want to speak up, you want to say something, but but but you just can't write.
You feel like you don't have enough breath.
It's like, oh, hi, my, my name is Jessica, and I'm here to present, you know, the feeling, you
know what I'm talking about.
I'm not sure if you ever had a situation like this, but I'm sure that you are familiar with it.
Maybe you witnessed somebody feeling something like this, experiencing something like this.
And it's a terrible situation to be in.
Now, when you practice your presentation or even introducing yourself when you are out of breath,
well, you become better at handling those situations.
So when you get into some type of uncomfortable environment and somebody says, Hey, so who are you?
What do you do?
And you feel this anxiety and stress building up and you feel like it's hard to breathe at this.
You will know that you are capable of introducing yourself because you practice it under the same circumstances.
Now, if you have problems with addiction, you could actually use a very old technique where you just
put a pen or a pencil and between your teeth and you try to pronounce different words while having your
pencil under, it's going to feel a little bit strange, but if you do it for a couple of minutes,
you will notice.
And it's a really fascinating thing that when you take it out of your mouth and you start speaking again,
it's going to feel a bit more clear.
So there are all types of techniques that you can use.
Another one, especially if you get easily distracted, is that you can't turn on the radio or you can
turn on another speech, for example, on YouTube.
And as that speaker is talking in the background, you're trying to practice your presentation out loud.
Will it be easy?
Of course not.
It's going to be really, really difficult.
And for some of you, it may be it may almost feel insurmountable.
You may you may think, well, there's no way I can practice like this.
But the point is, if you try a couple of times, you will get better and it's going to help you later
on.
Now, here is a disclaimer.
Doing things like this shouldn't be your main practice.
Your main practice should still involve going through your notes and then pretending that you are actually
delivering your presentation in a nice, quiet, calm environment.
Right.
But those things that I've been talking about in this video are just supplements to your regular practice.
Someone said that.
Try it, go for it, and let me know how it went.

--- How To Beat Procrastination? ---

Let's talk a little bit about procrastination, specifically overcoming procrastination in the context
of practicing.
And the reason I want to talk about it to you today is because a lot of people feel this resistance,
right?
You know, deep inside that you should be practicing, you know, that your presentation is coming up
soon and you're aware of the fact that the more you practice, the better your presentation will be
and you really care about the outcome.
But there is something holding you back, right?
This is the practice.
This is you and this is this resistance, right?
You want to go, you want to practice, and it's pushing you away constantly.
And it's weird and it's counterintuitive.
And so many times as humans, we know exactly what we have to do.
We know why we have to do it, but we still don't do it.
So rather than going really deep into the psychology of procrastination, you know, this is a separate
topic.
I actually have a separate course just about that.
What I want to tell you is something that's going to work right away, something that's a really powerful
strategy that actually two strategies that will help you to overcome the procrastination and to actually
get into your practice.
Now, the first time I want to talk to you about is focusing on the outcome.
So don't focus on the process when you're about to practice.
Don't focus on the fact that, well, I'm going to practice now, it's going to be a bit uncomfortable.
I'm going to have self-doubts.
I'm not sure if I can make it happen right.
I'm not sure if I already know my presentation enough to practice it.
Right.
So rather than pondering about the how how are you going to do it, I want you to focus on on the why
and the outcome.
How will it feel after you run your practice session?
How will it feel to finish your practice, to look back thinking, Wow, I learned so much.
I became better, I practice.
It wasn't that good.
But after a few rounds, I feel way more comfortable.
And then, most importantly, how will it feel after you deliver that presentation?
And then you look back and you say to yourself, Wow, it went extremely well.
But you know what?
If I if I didn't practice this much, there is no way I could have such an amazing performance, right?
So instead of focusing on the process, that inevitably will be a little bit uncomfortable.
It's going to take your energy.
I want you to look into the future and focus on the your ideal outcome.
Focus on all the benefits you will get from your practice.
And the more you focus on the benefits, the more you really visualize how amazing is going to feel.
Well, that's going to give you a lot of motivation, this this injection of inspiration to go out and
practice.
Now, another thing I want to talk to you about is accountability.
And there are many different ways to stay accountable.
I talked about it a little bit previously in other videos, but what I want you to do is I just want
you to comment to someone, right?
Obviously, you want to commit to yourself.
That's the first thing.
But you also want to comment to somebody else that you will practice.
Ideally, you want to commit to somebody who you respect, somebody that you would never, ever lie
to.
And the reason you want to do it is you can't say something.
Lines of listen, you can say it to your spouse, for example, one of your best friends or some other
family members.
You can say something in the lines of, listen, I have this really important presentation coming up.
And my goal, my objective for today is to practice five times.
And what I want you to do is I want you to ask me by the end of the day, if I practiced five times
and I'm telling you, if I don't do it like I'm going to feel really bad about myself.
I'm going to feel kind of like a loser because I know how important that is and I really want to do
five practice rounds.
Now, if you commit like this to another person, sure, you may feel that procrastination getting at
you.
You may feel that it's whispering into your ear, Hey, you don't have to do it today.
Maybe you can do it tomorrow.
Maybe you can do it some other day.
But you know what?
You will also know you'll be aware that in the evening that person that you committed to will ask you,
Hey, have you practiced?
You told me you want to do five rounds, have you done it?
And you know how bad it's going to feel to tell them?
Well, you know, to tell you the truth, I haven't done it right.
You're going to feel like a failure.
And because of that, you'll push yourself to practice.
Anyhow, I hope that this is helpful.
Well, in fact, I can tell you, if you use those techniques, I know for a fact that it's going to
be helpful.
So just go ahead.
And whenever you feel like procrastination is creeping at you to just use those strategies, kill procrastination
and get into your practice.

--- How To Beat Procrastination Part 2 ---

So there's one more thing I would like to add to the topic of procrastination, and this is something
that you should definitely do if you really feel like procrastination is taking over.
Maybe you tried everything that I talked about in the previous video, but I still feel like I just
can't get myself to practice.
I can't get myself to do it.
If that's the case now, I want you to focus on the negative outcome, or I should say the possible
negative outcome that may happen if you end up procrastinating.
So to give you a very real example, you know, I've been here on this island for many weeks.
Normally, filming a course like this would take me a couple of days of intense filming.
But I've been here for several weeks because we had issues with weather.
My girlfriend fell down the stairs, she sprained her ankle, and there are a bunch of other bad things
that happen.
Let's say that I wasn't the most lucky person while filming.
I had to change my flight several times.
I had to change hotels.
So I'm here dealing with all of this.
And I had those moments when I felt like, --, maybe, maybe I should just fly out and then come
back some other time and complete discourse.
Maybe this is just not my time.
I had those moments, but whenever it happened and it didn't happen much.
But but whenever it happened, I would also focus on the possible negative outcome.
So I would imagine myself being, for example, in Germany with my girlfriend.
Right, or being in another place that I have to go to.
And then looking back at this situation and reminiscing about those incredible views and thinking to
myself, Wow, I could have had all of those incredible videos, right?
Beautiful backgrounds.
Those videos could be helping my audience right now.
And they are not.
They are not because I was too weak, because I gave into that feeling of, you know what, maybe this
is just not my time.
Let me come back here at some point in the future.
Right.
And just really pondering that bad feeling of, you know what, I wish I did that.
You know, the feeling of regret, the feeling of action not taken, that that fires me up.
It just gives me that extra energy to to make those videos, to get myself in the zone, even on those
days when I just don't feel like doing it or, you know, sometimes we take a lot of time to set everything
up and then suddenly it starts raining.
And Eduardo says, Jimi, I'm sorry, los amigo, we cannot film because my camera cannot take the rain.
And that's it.
It's over, right?
So in those moments, again, I visualize that negative, possible negative outcome and that forces
me back into my zone.
So that's also what you can do, right?
If you really struggle with procrastination, you can imagine yourself getting on a stage and let's
imagine yourself having the feeling of it's going okay, but it's not going that well.
And the reason it's not going that well is because I haven't practiced.
It's because I didn't do the work.
It's because I didn't put my best into it.
And when you visualize that, when you really get deep into it, then you come back to the present moment.
They can take a few deep breaths and a sigh of relief, realizing, hold on a second, I still have
the time.
Okay, that visualization I just did that doesn't have to become a reality.
I still have the time to do what I have to do to make this the best presentation I've ever made.

--- Why & How Visualisation Can Help You Part 1 ---

Let's talk a little bit about the power of visualization.
Now, visualization is one of those things that a lot of people have been talking about for many, many
years.
The reason is that it actually works.
Now, I used to think back in the day, well, visualization, come on.
It probably doesn't work.
I mean, you closing your eyes and visualizing something, how can this possibly help you?
There have been enough research and experiments done to show that clearly visualization works.
Now, a question for you.
Have you ever had a situation when you are watching a movie, maybe some type of action movie with some
car chase and you found yourself moving in your seat?
Or maybe you saw one of those YouTube GoPro videos, right?
The POV, you know, the point of view, for example, video of somebody skiing down or paragliding
or jumping off a cliff and he found yourself moving in your chair and feeling strange feelings in your
stomach, or perhaps the pleasure of having one of those VR sets on your head and maybe one of your
friends loaded up some crazy action game where you felt like you were literally in there.
I remember that when I was visiting my family in Portland, it was this crazy VR set where you can actually
sit in this.
I don't know how to call it.
It's like a capsule that's moving and they put this thing on your head and you literally feel like you
are on a roller coaster.
And I remember feeling it physically in my body.
I literally felt like I was there.
And I remember that when my girlfriend put the same set on her head, she just couldn't believe, you
know, she could barely stay on it because it felt so real.
Another situation was when actually Greg, a member of my video crew from Poland, you know, he put
his VR set and he doesn't like heights.
Right.
So he loaded up this program that basically takes you up to the top of the building.
And we told him, Greg, you got to go out of this building and just this like little plank and you
have to go on that plank and you'll be like 100 meters above the ground.
And even though Greg knew that it wasn't real, even though he knew that he was just on a carpet, he
couldn't get himself to do it.
I'll never forget, you know, he tried to get out of that building, you know, this VR set.
He's like, like, I can't do this.
We are great.
Come on, man.
Like, this is.
This is not a real life.
This this is just VR.
This is.
This is not real.
I know, I know.
But it feels real.
I can't do it right.
You may be wondering, why am I telling you about all of this?
Why am I giving you those examples?
Well, because our brains are powerful, and your brain doesn't really know the difference between fiction
and reality.
If you visualize something with enough power, with enough effort, and do it enough times, your brain
will simply assume that this is your reality.
That's it, right?
This is your reality, and we can use it to our advantage.
Now, sadly, most people actually misuse the power of visualization, and they keep thinking about
all of the things that can go bad.
When they are about to deliver presentation, they keep pondering, Well, what if I run away from a
stage?
What if I have a panic attack?
What if people will not like what I have to say?
What if I make a mistake?
What if this?
What if that?
And there are so many what ifs that can paralyze a person.
Guess what?
If you keep visualizing those negative scenarios, your brain will start believing.
And also your body, your entire body will start believing that this happened a lot of times already.
This is how very often we just keep making our traumas stronger.
For example, if you had a situation back in the day when maybe your teacher forced you to get in front
of a group of people and you feel terrified, and then you keep reliving that scenario in your head.
Well, it's as if it happened thousands of times.
And that's why very often we keep deepening those traumas that we already have.
And it's counterintuitive, but you've got to push that away.
And you study how to visualize the positive outcome.
You have to visualize that you are getting on a stage in front of all of those people and you feel incredible.
You feel powerful, you feel confident, you feel like you have a lot of value to deliver.
You feel like all of those people are just completely captivated by you.
They want you to present.
They want to listen to you.
They are 100% tuned in.
So when you practice practice visualization and it's actually so easy, right?
You just find a comfortable place.
Could be your bed, it could be an armchair, it could be in nature.
Whatever you feel like, you close your eyes and you try to visualize how you get on a stage.
You try to visualize all of the people in front of you.
You're trying to visualize the emotions that you feel in your body.
You want to visualize the impact, the feeling that you get when people give you a standing ovation.
When people are tuning in, you really want to go deep into the details.
And the more you do it, the higher the likelihood that when you give the actual presentation, you
will perceive it as something that already happened.
Right?
So rather than having that feeling that you get on a stage and it's the unknown, oh, wow, I'm here
in front of those people.
What's happening?
Wow.
Deer in the headlights.
Rather than having that feeling, you will have a feeling that this is familiar.
It feels like I've done this many times.
Now you may be wondering.
Come on, Jimmy, how can this possibly work?
It sounds like one of those rural type of things.
I don't believe in visualization, but let me tell you this.
People who don't believe in visualization are usually the ones who have never tried it or those who
never really gave it a proper shot.
You know, like I met those people who close their eyes.
They would say, okay, I'm visualizing, visualizing.
Well, it doesn't work, man.
Sorry, that's it.
But they never really try it.
And I'm here to tell you, after many years of presenting on various stages and practicing in a variety
of ways, I'm here to tell you that visualization simply works.
Now, what I want you to do as well is when you practice your presentation, I want you to also incorporate
it into your practice.
So as you are trying to go through your presentation outloud, imagine that there are people in front
of you.
For example, one of the things that I often do when I present at a venue, when I show up early, I
like to get to an empty stage and I like to walk around and I imagine people in the audience, I literally
imagine that the room is full and it's not that easy.
But if you stick to it, if you do it for at least a couple of minutes, eventually you'll literally
feel like there are people in the audience and you will feel the butterflies is the craziest thing ever.
There's nobody in the audience.
But just because you've visualized, you can feel the butterflies.
You feel like, Wow, this is actually happening.
This is a real thing.
And that's when you practice.
And when you do it like this, when you get in front of the actual audience, it's going to feel more
comfortable.

--- Feeling overwhelmed? Here's how to handle it. ---

Let's talk a little bit about the power of Chunk.
So do you remember when you went to high school or university?
And right at the beginning you got a list of books you had to read and remember that sometimes it just
felt overwhelming.
You see 50, 20, 30, 40 different books and you're just pondering how the hell will I be able to read
all of those?
It's impossible.
But then of course, you go through the academic year and you realize, well, you have to read one
book at a time.
And then as you're reading that book, you read one chapter at a time and one page at a time, and once
you chunk it, you realize it's actually not that difficult.
Once you spread it in time, there's not that big of a deal.
So when people practice and it doesn't just apply to practice, it applies to anything that has to do
with designing your presentation.
You know, people often think, Well, I have to do everything in one go.
People think, Well, when I practice, I have to practice the entire thing, but actually disagree.
I feel like what you have to do is, first of all, you want to divide your presentation into different
pieces.
What you have the intro, you have the middle, you have the end.
You may want to even divide the middle into the main points, maybe divided into three different subsections.
And what you want to do is you want to practice every single bit of your speech separately.
So the way I like to do it, and this has been working so well and I've been teaching this to many different
people, is that let's say you take your intro, right?
Once you practice your intro, you forget about everything else, nothing else matters.
You're just focusing on your intro.
And let's say that you want your introduction to be roughly to say 5 minutes, right?
This is just an example.
Let's say it's 5 minutes.
Well, you can take your notes and you can divide that intro into a couple of bullet points.
So when you practice now, you don't have to think about everything else.
You don't have to worry that, whoa, what if I don't remember what's in the middle?
What if I don't remember that story at the end?
It doesn't matter.
Take that piece of paper, go through your notes, go for the bullet points and start practicing the
introduction.
Do it a couple of times.
Once you feel fairly comfortable, cool.
Now you move into the middle or let's say the first section of the middle and you do exactly the same
thing.
You take your notes, you take the bullets, you practice it out loud, do it a couple of times.
You move on to the next section and then to the next section, and then you do exactly the same thing
with the ending.
You take the paper, you look at your bullet points, you practice that a couple of times until you
feel comfortable, and only once you have all of that done.
Now you can try to practice the entire presentation from the beginning till the end, but use the power
of chunking.
There's no point of getting overwhelmed with the entire presentation.
You know, if you start early enough, you have the time and you'll be much better off.
If you divide your presentation into little chunks, practice them separately, and then put them together.

--- Why Taking Full Control is Crucial ---

Welcome to the section about getting yourself into your winter state.
Now this section is very important.
A lot of people may feel like, well, I can skip it, I can go right into the delivery and and other
important things.
But actually getting yourself into the right state is crucial because, hey, if you feel in a lousy
state before your presentation, you are not likely to deliver.
I'm sure you had moments in your life.
Well, we all have those moments fairly, fairly regularly when we wake up in the morning and we just
don't feel at our best.
I know that I have those moments.
You know, sometimes I wake up, I get out of the bed and I just don't feel fired up.
I just don't feel motivated and I have to get myself into that state.
But there are other times when I wake up in the morning and I just can't wait to get things done right.
So we all have those states that just keep drifting.
And a lot of people have a misconception that, well, you just have to be lucky to be in the right
state.
Right?
You're either lucky or you are unlucky, but in reality, you have more control than you think you have.
And you know, there's this old saying, I'm not sure who said it first, but it says that mood follows
action once again.
Think about it.
Your mood follows action.
Now, a lot of people have a misconception that it's the other way around.
They think that you have to feel like doing something in order to do it right.
If you know you want to go for a swim out there into the ocean, you have to feel like it first and
then you do it.
By the way, I'm talking a lot about the ocean, I guess because I'm by the ocean.
So it's not a top of my head.
But anything you want to do in life, people often think, well, you have to feel like doing it before
you do it.
But it's actually the opposite.
By doing certain things, you develop the mood for doing those things.
I'm sure you had a situation when you didn't feel like going to the gym, but he committed to someone
or you just committed to yourself and you decided, no, today is going to be the day when I'm not going
to procrastinate.
And then you go to the gym and you start feeling incredible.
After the first 20 minutes, I'm sure you had situations when you didn't feel like finishing that report
or writing that article, whatever it was, but you had to do it.
So you got yourself into it.
You started doing it.
You hated the first half an hour of it, but then you got to the point when you just felt like you were
in this flow state.
You felt like, Wow, this is not only not that bad, this is actually pretty enjoyable.
I'm actually enjoying doing it.
So once again, your mood follows your action.
And that's why what you want to do is when you don't feel like in the best state, you want to engineer
it.
You want to you want to take your destiny in your hands.
And rather than just basically succumb to whatever negative feelings you're experiencing, you want
to create an amazing state for yourself.
So in this section I'm going to be talking all about that.
Now I'm aware that I mentioned a lot of those techniques in my emergency videos in section number one.
But in this section, I want to make a couple of separate videos where I'm going to give you some ideas
for what you can do to get yourself into the inner state.
I'm going to expand on some of those ideas and I know that everyone is different.
So you may resonate with some of them.
You probably will not resonate with others, but it's fine.
You know, this is like like a little bank of various ideas that you can use to feel like a winner.
So having said that, let's get started.
I hope that you're excited as much as I am.

--- The Most Powerful Strategy ---

So I would like to start a section with something that I believe is fundamental for changing your state.
And it's one of those things that I've been using for many years now, and I don't just use it before
my presentations, although it is really helpful, but I like to use it in my everyday life and I would
love to say I do it every day.
I probably don't do it every day, but I always try to force myself to do it as much as possible because
every time I embrace what I'm about to tell you in a second, I just feel better.
I feel I just feel good in my body.
I feel good about everything that's happening.
It just feels good.
And when you feel good, well, guess what?
You have more power to tackle any challenge.
And I'm talking about gratitude.
Now, some of you may be thinking, come on, in gratitude.
Once again, you're talking about gratitude.
If you follow me on social media, you know, I talk about gratitude quite a lot, but the reason I
talk about it is because I truly believe in it.
And when I say gratitude, I don't mean just simply saying to yourself, okay, I feel grateful.
Yeah, I'm happy.
I'm not in a war zone.
I have I have food to eat.
I have clothing.
I'm healthy.
It's not about that.
I'm talking about deep gratitude, going really deep and feeling it, feeling it in your entire body,
just feeling it viscerally that you are grateful and others that when you do that, it's pretty much
impossible to feel scared.
It's pretty much impossible to to feel stressed out when you feel grateful, truly, truly grateful,
it just lifts everything up.
You look at life through a different lens.
Guess what?
This is obviously very helpful when you're about to do something that's scary and presentation can be
scary.
Delivering any type of speech, speaking up in front of a group of people can be a scary thing.
So when you inject yourself with gratitude, you will feel more equipped to tackle those types of challenges.
So what I want you to do is when you embrace gratitude, I want you to go beyond the obvious.
You know, most people often what they focus on is the immediate things, right?
I'm healthy, I have clothing on me, I have enough food.
I'm not in a war zone.
I'm happy for my family.
I'm happy for my friends.
But in order to truly feel grateful, I want you to go into little details and truly feel them.
So when you think about your family, you don't just say, Well, I'm grateful for my family.
Think about the specifics.
Maybe it's your mom or your dad or your sister or your brother or someone else.
But I want you to see that person, like visualize that person in front of you and ask yourself, why
are you grateful for them?
Your parents, they gave you life, right?
Your brother, your sister.
Maybe you're grateful for something specific, right?
So you want to you want to tune into that feeling.
You want to take your time.
You don't just want to list a bunch of things really quickly, go for them just for the sake of it.
But you really want to tune into it, right?
When you when you think about, well, I'm grateful that I have enough food on my plate.
I don't just want to think about that.
You want to also think about all the people around the world who don't have enough food on their plates.
Well, a lot of people don't even have plates.
Right.
Let's start with that.
So you want to focus on that and then you want to you want to concentrate on the fact that, well,
you have all of those things, right?
When you say you're grateful for your health, you want to actually look around.
You want to touch your legs.
You want to touch your arms.
You you want to feel your body.
You want to look at it and concentrate on the fact that.
Wow.
I'm in charge of this powerful machine.
I can do whatever I want to do with this.
I control it.
How incredible is that?
Right.
So what I'm asking you to do essentially, is to go really deep.
And when you focus on all of those feelings that come from gratitude, wow, you will feel tremendous.
You'll feel tremendous.
Now, what I would recommend you to do is to also mix it up with breathing.
So as you are embracing gratitude, just focus on your breathing.
Take deep, slow, controlled breaths.
Breathe and breathe out.
And I'm going to talk more about a briefing in another video.
But when you focus on Grant that you do while you are taking those deep controlled breaths, you will
feel incredible and you will notice that it's much harder to feel anxious.
It's much harder to feel fearful and uncomfortable.
You realize that you feel at peace.
It's almost this feeling of, Hey, anything can happen.
I'm okay, I feel good.
And with this mindset, when you start thinking about your presentation, you're going to you're going
to have a completely different set of thoughts beforehand.
Maybe as you think about your presentation, you think negative, what was going to happen if I fail?
What's going to happen if I get anxious?
What's going to happen if I lose my composure after embracing gratitude?
Once you have that peaceful state, you're more likely to think, Wow, I'm looking forward to being
there.
Wow, I'm really trying to help those people.
I really want to inspire that audience.
I really want to give extra knowledge to my team members.
Well, I'm really looking forward to the feedback I'm going to get from them.
It's a completely different one.

--- My Exercise That Helped Hundreds of Thousands of People ---

So now that we talked about gratitude, let's focus on you and let's specifically focus on why you are
better than you think you want.
And a lot of us underestimate ourselves and we overestimate other people.
That's what typically happens.
Right?
I'm sure you have situations when you walk into a crowd of people, maybe you go into your company or
maybe you go to a conference.
And as you look around, you think, well, all of those people have what it takes, right?
They seem successful.
They seem like they have everything handled.
And me, I'm not as good as them.
Right?
Very often we tend to underestimate ourselves.
And the reason why it happens is because we tend to play this game of comparison.
But unfortunately, we set up ourselves to lose.
Why is that?
Well, because you know your self holistically.
You know your self fully with all your weaknesses and all your failures and all your demons and insecurities,
you simply know yourself.
So you still vividly remember that time when you failed.
You remember that time when five years ago you lied to somebody you cared about.
You remember that time when you gave up on something, right?
We all have all of that in our head.
So you know your self holistically with all the good, but also all the bad and all the.
And when we mix all of that together, you are just an imperfect human being.
Now, when you look at other people, you don't see all of that, right?
When you look at other people, you see technically what they want you to see.
Sometimes you can go beyond that, but everyone has some type of a mask.
Even the most authentic people have some type of a mask because you don't know their true insecurities,
their failures, their weaknesses.
You don't know any of that.
Right?
So as you interact with other people or as you see them on social media, or maybe you interact with
them on a conference or in a company, you just see the outside, you see just one tiny angle of that
person.
There's a full human being, right, with a huge spectrum of all types of experiences and emotions and
fears and insecurities.
You don't see that.
You see one little angle.
And the meantime, when you look into yourself, you see everything, right?
You see everything again, as I said, insecurities, weaknesses, etc..
So when you compare all of this to that one little angle, what you see outside of that person, right,
that mask that you see, obviously you never win that game.
Obviously, you will always feel like those people are better than you, right?
You have all those issues and insecurities.
Well, but they don't.
They are better.
This is simply not true.
This is not the reality.
This is this lie that we tend to believe in.
So the question is, okay, how do you overcome that?
How do you overcome the situation where you keep underestimating yourself?
And I'm going to talk more about it in the bonus section.
I have an extra section at the end of this course where I'm going to talk to you about building your
core confidence.
So we're going to be delving deep into all of that.
But here, what I want to tell you is that what are the ways you can overcome that situation is to keep
reminding yourself of the fact that you are better than you think you are.
And there is a strategy, and I'm putting this video in a section about creating a winner state, because
you can use this strategy before getting on a stage or before getting in front of a video camera or
before addressing your team.
And it's about reminding yourself of how great you are.
Now.
Disclaimer I have been using this strategy just like every other strategy and this course, this is
not just the list of random ideas I got from Google.
These are things I've been using for many, many years of my life.
And in fact, the strategy I'm about to talk to you about is something I used before job interviews
back in the day.
I still vividly remember when I was on a train going from Birmingham to London to go to Goldman Sachs
offices in London.
And I was performing this exercise I'm about to give you in order to get myself into the winner state.
And guess what?
I got a job.
It clearly worked, right?
I felt like a winner when I walked into that office.
So the exercise is very simple.
What I want you to do is I want to take a piece of paper or you can you can do it on your phone.
You can do it on your laptop.
But I like to use real paper because you can then put it in your in your pocket and you can look at
it later on.
It's just more tangible.
Right?
But whatever you feel more comfortable with and what I want you to do is I want you to think about the
things that you appreciate about yourself, what are the things you are proud of, what are the characteristics
that you like about yourself?
And I want you to also think about specific.
Don't just think in broad terms, think about specific things that you could like about yourself.
And by the way, don't worry about being a narcissistic person because nobody will see that list.
It's just for you.
So write down anything that comes to mind.
It could be perhaps a character trait.
Maybe you're a very disciplined person, maybe you are very conscientious.
Maybe you are a very honest person.
Right?
Maybe it's a.
Specific situation.
Perhaps you helped a friend, maybe somebody in need.
Not really needed something.
Nobody wanted to help that person.
And and you volunteered and and you did that, right?
Maybe it's something that you managed to accomplish in your life.
Right?
So think about all of those different things.
And on top of that, what I want you to think about are those impossibilities that became possibilities.
And we all had those situations in our lives when something seemed impossible and then it became possible.
And guess what?
The moment it became possible, you stopped really being proud of it.
You stopped perceiving it as impossibility.
Right now, it's just your new normal.
For example, getting a job, learning that foreign language, advancing in a company, building a business,
learning a new skill.
So very often as we look at life, there are those things we want to do.
We have our goals, our objectives, and we think, Wow, if I could only learn Spanish, if I could
only learn English.
I know that a lot of you are not native English speakers, just like myself.
I remember for me back in the day, learning English was just a dream, right?
I was thinking, well, well, I would love to go out there to the world and I would love to travel
and explore, but I need to speak English and I did it right.
Same with Spanish.
I'm here on the Spanish island and I speak fluent Spanish.
I also speak other languages.
Back in the day this seems impossible, but maybe it's somebody you're sitting next to.
Maybe it's your spouse that know.
Maybe in the past you saw that person and you said to yourself, Wow, I really like that person.
I want to be with them.
But he didn't believe it was possible.
And now we take it for granted.
Now this is your new reality.
Maybe it's a business you've managed to build and now you just focus on the issues.
Oh, we are losing money during COVID or Oh, we just lost a major client.
You know, life is terrible.
But how often do you go back and think, this used to seem impossible?
When I was working my $3 per hour job, this business was just a dream and I really wanted to make it
happen, but it seemed impossible.
How often do you look back thinking, Wow, like in the past when I looked at this, I couldn't understand
a single thing and I literally thought that it's going to be impossible for me to learn it.
And now this is your job, this is your career, this is your profession, right?
We often don't stop to give ourselves the credit.
And here's the thing.
You may be wondering.
Okay, Jimmy, I see how this can be related to building up your positive state, but how is it related
to presentation skills?
Well, it's very simple.
When you do this exercise, when you start writing things down, when you write a lot of things down,
you go for them.
You feel a lot of those positive emotions.
What's going to happen is it's going to improve your state.
You will feel more powerful.
You will appreciate yourself more, right?
You feel more confident, you feel more courageous.
You realize that you are better than you think you are.
Because often we brush our teeth.
Every day we take a shower every day.
How often do we take the time to work on our confidence?
So doing all of this will make you feel more confident.
It's going to make you feel more powerful.
And when you when when you do that, when you write that list, especially before a presentation or
then, you know, you write the list beforehand and then right before the presentation, you go through
it really quickly.
Wow.
That's going to remind you that you have what it takes.
So when you get on that stage or when you stand up in that steam gathering or when you jump on that
zoom call and you're about to speak up, right, or maybe make a video, you will feel more powerful
because you know you have what it takes.
So anyhow, use it.
Please use it because it works.
I've been using it for over a decade and this exercise never disappoints.
And honestly, no matter how confident you are, we all need that injection of confidence from time
to time.
So just go ahead, use it.
Let me know how it went.
I hope that you've been enjoying those videos so far, by the way.
I really hope that you enjoy this new scenery.
It's actually the first time you're are filming here on this particular beach.
This is a volcanic beach.
So I was talking about gratitude in the previous video.
Well, I have to say, I'm so grateful to be able to teach so many people online on Udemy from places
like this.
It's just, you know, it's hot now.
You probably see I'm sweating, I'm in a long pants, it's extremely hot.
I'm sitting on this extremely uncomfortable piece of volcanic rock.
But I'm grateful.
I'm grateful because I see Atlantic Ocean.
I see this black volcanic beach behind me.
And even though it's super hot, I'm just so happy to be here knowing that I'm talking to a lens.
But then all of that will be transformed into nice, high quality, compelling videos that hundreds
of thousands of people from around the world will watch fuels me with so much gratitude.
So here we go.
Hope that you've been enjoying it.
I'm going to see you in the next video.

--- How To Calm Yourself Down with Proper Breathing ---

Okay.
So I'd like to ask you, how do you feel from 1 to 10?
And the chances are you already feel way better?
Because we've done some of those exercises before we did gratitude.
Remind yourself that you're better than you think you are.
But still, I want to ask you, how do you feel from 1 to 10?
And right now, what I want you to do is I want you to take just a few deep breaths with me, just several
of them,
and we take a breath in.
Take your time.
But then when you breathe out, make it even longer.
Now are taking a breath in.
I want you to imagine breathing and all the confidence, all the courage, all the positive energy.
And when you breathe out, breathe out, all the anxiety, all the negative energy.
So essentially feel like when you breathe in, in your nourishing your body and your mind and when you're
breathing out, you're getting rid of all the toxicity, all the negativity.
Now, my question for you is, just after a few of those breaths, how do you feel?
Do you feel better now?
The chances are you already felt pretty good before taking those few deep breaths, because we've done
those exercises in the previous videos.
But breathing is especially useful when you feel in a negative state.
So let's say that you're about to deliver your presentation.
You feel anxious, you feel negative, you don't know how you're going to do it.
Well, if you do breathing exercises in that situation, you can dramatically change your state because
focusing on deep breathing will dramatically shift your biochemistry.
You just feel better in your body and in your mind.
And it's interesting to consider that as humans, we breathe every single day.
We actually breathe every minute of every day.
But how often do we really stop to ponder that if we stop breathing for more than 5 minutes, that's
it.
We're going to be dead, right?
We never really I don't say never, but we very rarely stop to consider how important braveness.
But unfortunately, most of us never breathe actively.
It's one of those passive things that keeps happening in the background.
You know, your autonomic nervous system is managing all of that.
You don't actually have to think about breathing, but I really encourage you that you do.
And the reason I started the video with a few deep breaths is because I wanted to portray how powerful
it can be.
So one of the things you can do to get yourself into the winter state is to focus on controlled, deep
breathing.
As I mentioned before, you take slow, deep breath and then you breathe out even slower.
And remember what I told you to imagine that you're breathing and positive energy and courage and confidence
and you breathe out all the anxiety.
Well, it really works.
And it may seem a bit woo, right?
Some people might say, well, come on, Jimmy, will this really work, this visualization type of
thing?
But it actually works.
It really, really works.
And, you know, if if you visualize that your breathing and positive energy and then you breathe out
all that negative energy, it's going to happen.
You will see that just after 20, 30, 40 seconds, you will feel better.
And if you keep going like this for several minutes, it basically becomes like a meditation, right?
You start feeling more grounded, you rebalance your energy, you start feeling better, you start feeling
more powerful.
It's simply work.
So taking all of this into account, whenever you want to feel better, whenever you want to get yourself
into the winter state, don't simply rely on your autonomic nervous system to take charge.
Take charge of your breathing.
Take those deep breaths in and out, and you'll see that you will feel better.

--- Optional: Real Life Examples ---

Okay.
So as promised, I'm going to give you some examples of how I push my comfort zone in the lead up to
various presentations in order to do my best.
So the first example could be a few years ago I was speaking at mind value in Tallinn, Estonia.
So to give you a bit of context, my value is not a typical conference.
It doesn't just happen for one day, it actually happens throughout the entire month.
So once a year, visualization with the Mind Valley team and typically a thousand other people gather
and cool plays around the world, whether it's Estonia or Croatia or Spain.
And what we do is we call it we live in the same city and we have a set of presentations and workshops
and masterminds happening throughout that month.
So I was presenting a lot.
I was doing hours and hours on a stage and then at some point my friend Jamila, similar to mine, she
said, Hey Jimmy, I'm doing this really cool program for the teenagers.
I've got 60, 70 of them, and I would love you to come and to do a workshop for them.
Of course I said yes.
I would love to help the kids.
I'll definitely do it.
She said, Listen, whenever you have the time, you know I'm fairly flexible.
Whatever works for you.
And guess what I did?
Of course I picked that as my first presentation of the event because let's face it, you know, stakes
were pretty low.
60, 70 teenagers, a three hour workshop.
It wasn't filmed.
Low stakes, lots of fun.
Well, lots of fun.
But it was also very challenging, I have to say, try to keep a teenager's attention span for 3 hours.
Wow.
You know, kudos to you.
So I did that.
I did that.
And I have to say, I really enjoyed it.
But afterwards I felt a no winner state.
So later that week, when I had to get in front of a thousand people, there were video cameras, attendees
were making videos as well.
So the pressure was higher.
But when I got on that stage, I felt so relaxed.
I was, I'll try it.
I'm not sure if I can.
I try to link up some footage from that stage, but I just walked on that stage as if I was in my living
room.
The question is why?
Well, the reason is that I push my comfort zone several days before talking to that big group of teenagers.
Now, this is an example of pushing your comfort zone on a macro scale, right?
You don't do it on the same day, but you do it a few days before.
So let me give you an example of me pushing my comfort zone on the day of the presentation.
So recently I was presenting in Argentina and Buenos Aires.
I was doing a keynote presentation, closing the entire event.
Now, instead of just waking up in my hotel in the morning and just going for my regular day and then
suddenly showing up on that stage, you know, I already made a commitment to myself that I really wanted
to nail it.
My goal was to get on that stage and let you change lives.
That that was my goal.
And I'm happy to say that I made it happen.
But one of the reasons why I made it happen was because I was in incredible state.
So the way I approached the situation was very simple.
I walk up, first of all, I started with a gym, proper workout, proper nutrition, meditation, brief,
and all of the other things that I've been talking about in this course so far.
I did my gratitude.
I reminded myself as well that I've done those presentations hundreds of times myself.
I'd like to do it by, for example, watching my own footage.
So obviously I don't spend hours watching my own clips, but what I like to do is I like to go for my
speakers reel and see some of the shots from various stages, because that's a reminder that I've done
this so many times.
I'd like to go through the selection of my pictures from a stage.
Just again, remind myself that I spoke all over the world and this is really not a big deal.
Then on that same day I did an Instagram live, I took my phone and I talked to a bunch of people on
a live video.
And that's really important because, you know, there's always a bit of a comfort zone push when you
are doing any type of live video.
Then once I got to the venue, first of all, I got there early.
But rather than just going to the backstage and just waiting for my turn, I tried to talk to as many
people as possible.
I introduce myself to strangers.
I introduce myself to groups of people.
I spoke Spanish to a lot of people.
I got myself into this very talkative social state.
When I went to the backstage, a few speakers were really stressed out.
So what did I do?
Of course I tried to help them.
Right.
And then at some point when some of the speakers were going on the stage, I decided to help them with
some filming.
So I walked almost on a stage with them, right?
So I walked from the backstage almost on a stage.
I made some videos, but I also could face the audience, which of course got me more comfortable with
being in that spot, seeing everyone in front of me.
So to make the long story short, fast forward when my turn came, once I got to the stage, I was already
in a talkative state.
I already pushed my comfort zone before.
I felt great because I did my exercise.
I ate healthy, I did my meditation, I did my breathing.
I felt like a leader because.
I helped a bunch of other speakers and on top of that, I was already behind the scenes at the back
of the state scene, all the people.
So it wasn't shocking for me to get on a stage, you know, full of a huge crowd.
So I got there and I delivered and again, it felt like my living room.
So this is another example of how I do it.
And you probably see a pattern here.
These are just two examples of two situations, but I do it a lot.
And the pattern is very simple.
You know, I always put in the effort.
I never take things for granted.
I never say to myself, Yeah, I've got it.
I've done it hundreds of times, I'm a pro, I can do a thousand of other things.
And then I just going to show up on a stage without preparation, without getting myself into the right
state, and it's going to just happen.
No, I always put in the effort.
I never schedule a lot of workload for the day of the presentation.
I never schedule random business calls for that day.
I want to make sure that I have as much time as possible for myself so I can engineer that winner state
and really do my best.
So I hope that you enjoy this video.
Again, this was an optional video.
I know it's it's pretty long.
It's probably, what, seven, 8 minutes if you watched it.
I do appreciate it because we didn't have to watch it.
But a lot of people tend to ask me, hey, Jimmy, what about you?
Give me your examples.
Tell me your stories.
A lot of people want to hear those stories.
I figured, why not?
I may as well share them with you.
So I hope that you enjoy them.
And I'm going to see you in the next video.

--- Does Power Posing Really Help? ---

Let's talk a little bit about your body language because you probably heard about the concept of power
poles.
I'm sure that you heard people telling you that if you want to feel more confident than before you get
on a stage, you've got to do power poles.
You've got to stand like this.
Right.
And there is a lot of truth in it.
Now, a little disclaimer.
I have a separate body language section where I'm going to go deep into body language.
So rather than just telling you, hey, you've got to stand up straight and do this, I'm going to go
deeper into it.
I'm going to make it more comprehensive.
I'm going to give you various strategies for improving your body language so we can deliver in a more
captivating and charismatic and confident, of course, manner.
But in this video, just very briefly, I want to focus on the fact that if you want to get yourself
into the winter state, you have to take care of your body language and you have to make sure that you
don't get yourself into this hide mode.
Now, what do I mean by this?
Well, a lot of people, when they feel unsure about something, when they don't feel very comfortable,
they subconsciously try to hide from this situation.
Right.
So typically you see a person slouching, you don't feel at your best.
So you start slouching.
Maybe you start crossing your arms because they feel defensive, right?
Because you feel like, well, I actually don't want to be here.
I'm not fully ready for this presentation.
Or even if you practice a lot, you may feel like, well, maybe I haven't practiced enough.
I'm not sure how it's going to go.
So now you cross your arms?
No, because you do that well.
Your body sends a signal to your brain, we are not feeling very good now.
We are not feeling very confident.
So guess what?
That only exacerbates all of those thoughts that you have in your head, this internal dialogue of,
well, maybe I'm not ready, maybe maybe I can't do it.
So guess what?
Once again, you retreat even further.
And often what happens is we get into this hide mouth where we literally start hiding, right?
It's almost like subconsciously we don't want anyone to see us.
We want to be in a corner.
We we almost want to want to want to cease to exist.
Right?
So you move your body like this.
And the problem with it is that you will just keep reinforcing that idea that you are not ready, that
you don't feel good, that you don't have enough energy and confidence.
So once you recognize what's happening, you have to snap out of it, snap yourself out of it.
The moment you start slouching, you're looking down.
Maybe you sit like this, snap out of it and just open up and stand up straight.
If you're sitting down and sit down, strain straight, get your shoulder blades together, embrace
the open position again.
I'm going to talk more about it in the body language section.
But keep the open position, keep your head held up high and also try to smile and do your best to relax
the muscles of your face.
So maintain straight posture, look up high, right?
And ideally, you may not want to do it when you are around people, but if you go to the restroom,
you may want to do something like this, right?
You may want to spread your arms and look up.
And actually, you may want to force a smile.
You may think, well, if I smile, it's fake.
And yes, it's going to be fake for a while.
And eventually you will see that if you force smile and you stand like this, well, this smile will
start becoming more genuine.
You may actually start laughing at this situation, especially if you are standing in a cubicle in a
restroom and you do something like this.
You may start laughing at yourself doing it.
And guess what?
It's going to reinforce the idea that you have something to laugh about.
So you probably will smile bigger and you may laugh even more, and you will start feeling better if
you do this for a couple of minutes, take a few deep breaths, splash some cold water on your face
and then come out of the restroom.
You will see that you will feel more powerful.
So in a nutshell, power pausing works.
You know, people talk about it for a reason.
It works, and you should definitely use it.

--- Is It Possible To Turn Anxiety Into Excitement? ---

How do you feel when you are anxious about something?
Especially, how do you feel when you are anxious about your public speaking experience?
Your heart is beating faster, you are probably sweating.
Maybe you are hyperventilating.
You know, there's weird feeling when you're trying to catch your breath, but it seems like there is
not enough oxygen.
Maybe you feel the tension in your head.
Perhaps you feel this weird, the buzzy feeling in your ears.
Maybe you have thousands of thoughts right now.
My question for you is how is this different just from the physical standpoint, from excitement?
Is it really different?
Are there major differences now when you think about it, the physical symptoms of excitement are very
similar.
Now, of course, you may not be feeling the buzzy feeling in your ears, but your heart is probably
beating much faster.
You may be sweating, you may be having a lot of different thoughts in your head.
You may be hyperventilating.
So what is the difference, right?
Why do we feel anxious?
And then we can feel very similar feelings in our bodies and we feel anxiety.
Why is that?
Well, because when we are anxious, we assume that whatever is happening is negative, right?
There is no possibility of a positive outcome.
However, when you are excited, you feel very similar.
It's not the same.
Of course they are not the same.
But if you very similar symptoms but you are excited, you believe that whatever is happening is positive.
So.
So does this difference between positivity and negativity?
Therefore, taking all of this into account, wouldn't it be possible to take some of that anxiety and
turn it into excitement?
Now, of course, just just to put a disclaimer here, I'm not talking about severe anxiety.
I'm not talking about panic attacks and things like that.
That's a different story.
I'm talking about mild anxiety you get before presenting.
Now, of course, it is possible to take that and turn it into excitement.
By the way, there is a rockfall going on behind me.
I'm not sure if you're going to be able to catch it a B roll, but it's pretty tremendous.
So when you feel anxious, you can you can transition that into excitement if you change how you perceive
the situation.
So rather than looking at the situation with this negative angle, the moment you start reframing that
this is something positive, you may be able to get some excitement out of it.
Myself, I had situations in my life when I felt a bit anxious before doing certain things, but because
I knew how important it is to work on my mindset or my attitude, I managed to turn it into excitement.
It's tremendous when it happens.
So next time, when you feel those butterflies in your stomach, rather than saying to yourself, I
feel anxious, I feel afraid, I don't want to do this.
I don't want to do that.
Say to yourself, I'm excited.
I can't wait to do it.
The reason my heart is beating faster is because I really want to go out there and embark on whatever
it is that I'm doing.
And if you do it, if you if you embrace the self-talk and if you focus on the positive, well, you
will turn that anxiety into excitement.

--- Crazy Strategy that ALWAYS Works ---

So in this video, I have something really exciting for you because it's one of those strategies that
I've been using for many years and it works magic, okay?
It makes me feel so much more comfortable in uncomfortable situations.
And honestly, whenever I share this strategy with people, very often they just scratch their heads
thinking, Wow, this is incredible.
Why I've never thought about it myself.
And actually, this is a perfect place to make this video because we are sitting next to the Atlantic
Ocean, which can get very, very cold, especially in the winter.
Now, when you jump into cold water, you know the feeling, right?
You start hyperventilating, you breathe really fast, you feel cold.
And a lot of people, you know, their first reaction is just to jump out, especially when you do an
ice bath.
Now, I really enjoy doing icebox from time to time, but when you get into that water, the first reaction,
even if you are experienced, is that you want to jump out.
You just have to sit through it.
And after 30 seconds, one minute you start adjusting and eventually you feel okay, you feel all right.
In fact, it starts feeling really nice.
Essentially, your body has just stood in your environment.
Now you may be wondering, okay, Jimmy, what are we talking about?
Why are you talking about ice baths and cold water?
Well, the reason I'm talking about it is because it's just like with your comfort zone, right?
Whenever you push your comfort zone, your comfort zone expands a little bit.
And the problem with public speaking is that what we often do is we go from complete comfort to complete
discomfort.
And as you can see, this jump is very high if you feel very comfortable.
And then suddenly you have to push your comfort zone tremendously while you jump from here to here.
And a lot of people cannot handle it.
And that's why so many individuals, when they get on a stage, they just feel so nervous.
So what you want to do is you want to bridge that gap.
You want to create a bridge under or I should say you want to you want to create steps just like in
a ladder, right?
You want to have another step and another and another one.
So when you take that last jump, it's not that big.
So how do you do it?
Well, you do it by pushing your comfort zone on the day of your presentation leading up to the presentation.
And this strategy is just brilliant.
I have to tell you, if you do it, you will see for yourself.
It's brilliant because what you do is rather than getting out of your bed, feeling comfortable, feeling
relaxed, and then suddenly presenting, you engineer various situations that will push your comfort
zone.
For example, if you have social media presence, you can go live on social media, whether it's Facebook
or Instagram or LinkedIn can take your phone and you can make a live video and for example, tell people
that you will be delivering a presentation or just share something from your life.
But for a lot of people, going live on social media is uncomfortable.
So now look at this, right?
You are comfortable.
You wake up now you are doing, let's say, a Facebook life or LinkedIn life.
Well, now you jump here, you embrace some discomfort, right?
You go from here to here.
Then maybe you go into the presentation room.
You see people congregating there.
You don't know a lot of them.
And there is this temptation to stay in the corner, relax, go for your notes, and then got on a stage
and then present.
But rather than succumbing to that temptation, you can say to yourself, well, let me push my comfort
zone even further.
And now you can actually go and introduce yourself to some of those strangers.
You may even walk up to a group of people and say, Something aligns.
Oh, hey, my name is Jimmy Noren.
I just wanted to quickly introduce myself.
I'm going to be speaking in a second and wondering what brings you here?
If this is, let's say, an external presentation, if it's an internal presentation within your team,
well, you can simply talk to some of the people that you don't know yet.
You could unless you walk up and say, hey, my name is Jim.
I'm going to be presenting in a second.
What is your name?
We've never met.
Right.
And you can have a little conversation and you can do it with a couple of different people.
Now, if you are presenting in a virtual environment, maybe you are presenting on Zoom.
Then again, you can do the Facebook Live or the Instagram live.
There's lots of different things you could do now.
Everyone is different, right?
I'm sure you can think about things that scare you, that push your comfort zone because everyone is
different.
But the point is that you go from here this level of comfort to then gradually embracing discomfort.
So when you get on that stage or when you have to speak up on that zoom gathering, you don't jump from
here to here.
You jump from here to here.
And I've been using this so many times.
And in fact, in the next video, it's going to be an optional video for those of you who want to watch
it.
But I'm going to give you some examples of how I do it in my life.

--- Introduction & Fundamental Principle ---

Welcome to this new section about delivery.
So now that we talk about getting yourself into the winners state, you have all of those things sorted
out.
Well, now you are ready to get in front of that audience.
But the question is, how can you do it successfully?
How can you get out there in front of your audience and deliver your presentation or your workshop and
a captivating, charismatic, compelling way?
And when you really think about it, delivering a presentation is about much more than just sharing
information.
If it was just about information, you could simply give people your slides and a bunch of notes and
maybe the transcript of your presentation.
There would be no need for anybody to to come and to listen to you life.
So presentations clearly are about more than that.
They are about creating some type of mindset shift and planting new ideas, helping people to take the
complex and make it simple.
Right.
It's about mindset shift.
It's about gaining new perspective.
It's about also creating a connection with your audience.
And the connection between the audience members is about creating a common ground.
So that's why it's so important that you learn how to deliver your presentation well, because, look,
you could have incredible structure.
You already know your audience based on that.
You figure out the objectives, the structure.
You have tremendous content designed.
But let's face it, if you go out there in front of your audience and if you can't deliver your content
in an entertaining, captivating, compelling way, so your audience actually listens.
So they are tuning in from the beginning till the end.
Well, you're going to have a very hard time to convey everything that you want to convey.
So in this section, I'm going to share with you some of the most powerful things that I've learned
over the years of traveling the world, speaking on stages, literally in so many different countries,
lots of different countries, virtual stages, hosting various gatherings from business events to huge
sporting events.
I'll share with you everything I've learned about amazing, compelling delivery.
However, there is one thing I have to mention here, and this is very important.
So just because I had all of those experience, just because I have all of this knowledge, doesn't
mean that I know everything.
I definitely don't always perceive myself to be the white belt in this game of live, because the reality
is that the more you learn, the more you realize how little it is that you know.
And I'm sure that a few years from now I'm going to look back at this course, for example, thinking,
okay, yeah, I knew a lot, but I didn't know that much, right?
I've learned so much more over the years because this is what evolution is all about.
We keep growing, we keep learning, we keep getting better.
And, you know, I feel like when people think that they know everything, that that is a big red flag.
Having said that, I'm going to share with you powerful strategies, techniques, hacks, just like
in the rest of this course that allow me to go from a really scared kid who just couldn't go out and
present in front of anyone to become a the type of person that is very often the top rated speaker of
any conference.
And this has been happening a lot lately.
So clearly, you know, there is some science to what I'm teaching you.
I'm not just a natural who came out of my mom's woman Oh, my God.
On a stage with a microphone.
But I've been implementing all of those strategies to go from here to here and then here and here.
And hopefully I'll keep climbing that ladder and becoming better.
So having said that, I really hope that you will enjoy this section and let's get started.

--- How To Trigger REAL Emotions? ---

One of the most important things you have to do when you are presenting is to trigger emotions so important
to trigger emotions.
Now, some people may say, well, but what if I'm doing a technical presentation?
What if I'm talking about some type of business process and still it's still relevant?
Now, you may not want to trigger a huge array of emotions, but you have to trigger some emotions.
People remember better when they feel something.
Nobody wants to watch a boring presentation where the speaker is talking with this monotonous voice,
sharing those lengthy slides with no emotion.
People are just tuning out.
The attention span nowadays is really, really short.
And hey, guess what?
All of us have our phones in our pockets.
So if the presentation is boring, if it doesn't trigger emotions, it's so easy for people just to
pull out that phone and just start checking social media or checking their emails.
So you have to trigger emotions.
Now, the question is, how do you do it?
Well, you will do it for a variety of ways.
And I'm going to talk about some of those in the next videos.
For example, your body language storytelling.
We talked about storytelling and the content piece lots of different ways.
However, one of the fundamental things you have to remember about is that if you want to trigger emotions,
you start by feeling emotions.
It's very difficult to make somebody feel something if you don't feel it yourself.
So if you want people to get excited, for example, let's say that you are team leader and you want
to motivate your sales staff.
Well, if you are not excited about what you are saying, it's going to be almost impossible for you
to make people excited.
Right?
Imagine if I'm talking to you and I say, listen, we can definitely make those sales targets happen.
We just have to believe in ourselves.
We just have to believe that it is possible and we just have to go and we have to push ourselves to
close those clients.
Now, if you listen to me like this, it's boring, right?
You feel nothing, you feel no emotion.
And guess what?
If you don't feel any emotion in me, you are not likely to feel emotion in you.
However, if I inject some of my emotion into my presentation, even just a little bit, that changes
the entire dynamic.
So remember the golden rule that whatever emotion you want your audience to feel, ideally you want
to feel it yourself.
For example, if you're sharing a vulnerable story of something that happened to you in the past, then
you want to use that story to prove a point.
And let's say it's a sad story.
Maybe it's a story of sorrow and then overcoming the odds.
Well, you want to feel that, right?
If you want your audience to go on a roller coaster of feeling sad and and feeling the pain, just to
recover from that and feel hope if that's what you want them to feel.
Guess what?
You got to feel it as well.
And this is why it's so important to carefully design your content.
Of course we have a different section about it and to practice your content, right?
Two sections ago, I believe it was two sections ago we talked about practicing your content.
Well, the more you practice, the more you will be familiar with your content, and that familiarity
will make you comfortable with delivery.
Now, when you're comfortable with delivery, if you know your flow, you know that you won't forget
anything.
You know exactly where you are going.
Now you have extra resources, extra energy, extra attention to play around with emotions.
So for example, when I'm delivering my presentations, when I'm sharing my stories like the story of
running away from a stage, I know the story really well, right?
I shared it with a bunch of different audiences.
I know what I'm going to be talking about.
I know my bullet points.
I know my myself.
I practiced it before.
So rather than thinking what's going to go next, what should I say?
Which points should I make?
I don't need to think about any of that.
I can focus fully on my delivery and I can focus on conveying emotion.
So in that story, when I was telling you that, I felt like, you know, if I get in front of that
audience, I, I would panic.
I would probably pass out from a panic attack.
I didn't say, well, I was I was so scared that I knew that if I get in front of that audience, I
may have a panic attack.
So instead, I just run away from from a stage.
I didn't say that.
Right.
I injected some emotions in there.
I don't remember exactly how I said it, because every time I say it in a different way.
But it was something in the lines of, you know, at some point I was about to present and then my heart
started beating faster and I started sweating and I felt this anxious feeling in my stomach and I just
didn't know what I'm going to do.
I feel like if I go to the stage, I'm just going to pass out from fear.
Have you ever felt like this?
Guess what did I do?
What did I do?
Well, sadly, I run away from a stage.
It felt terrible, right?
You see, this is emotion, because obviously I could do it better.
Just don't want to waste the time right now because you already know the story.
But this is just one example of taking something that's flat and adding emotion to.
My delivery.
So then, as you are listening, you can put yourself in my shoes and feel those same emotions.
So this is it.
Make sure that if you want to trigger a certain emotions in your audience, you first want to trigger
them in yourself.

--- Managing Your Tonality and Volume ---

Let's talk a little bit about your tonality now.
This is something that I mentioned a couple of times throughout the course, but it's really important
that you pay attention to your tonality.
The last thing you want to do as a presenter is to speak in a very monotone voice.
I mean, think about this, right?
You mentioned that I talk to you like this.
Okay.
In this video, we will be talking about tonality.
I'm going to teach you exactly what you can do to speak with a better I mean, I can't even focus when
I'm talking like this.
Right.
It's it feels weird.
But here's the thing.
If you're not used to presenting, then modulating your voice may seem even stranger.
And I get it.
I completely get it right.
What I'm doing right now, I'm raising my voice and I'm going down, up and down.
I'm going in waves.
Right.
It may seem very counterintuitive, may seem really strange to you.
If you are not used to presenting, most people feel more comfortable.
Just go in like this, right?
Very monotonous voice.
So you have to push yourself.
You have to learn to play around with your tones.
Now, don't want to overdo it.
You don't want to go crazy, right?
Some people tend to go a little bit overboard and they almost shout and then they whisper.
And it's very theatrical.
It's just too much, right?
Although, you know, everyone is different.
Everyone has different style.
I don't want to necessarily say that that that's a bad way of doing it.
You know, there's no really right or wrong.
However, what you want to do is you want to modulate your voice.
You want to get comfortable with it.
Now, the best way to start is just to video yourself.
You want to set the tone in front of you and you want to deliver a mock presentation.
Then you want to watch it and you want to pay attention to your tone of voice and figure out if you
are captivating and ask yourself maybe there are some moments when you can go a bit higher or a bit
lower.
For example, when I'm telling you about a secret about something mysterious, I'm going to lower my
voice a little bit.
Right?
But if I want to tell you about something that really excites me, something that makes me exhilarated,
well, I'm going to put more emphasis on my words.
I'm going to speak a bit louder, of course, without going overboard.
All right.
So so really pay attention to it.
Now, another thing is that and this is really important when you are presenting, just be careful with
your volume.
Now, a lot of speakers find it challenging, especially when they are using a microphone, because
what happens is that some people don't have that much power in their voice and usually happens because
they speak from their throat.
You've got to try to speak from your diaphragm, right?
You want to make sure that you ground yourself and you can do it with breathing and other techniques
that I discussed in this section about getting yourself into the winter state, but you want to make
sure that you speak from here, right?
Then your voice is more powerful.
If you just speak from your throat, you won't be that powerful.
So some speakers find it difficult to have enough volume, especially if they don't have a microphone.
If you're on a big room without a mic, you have to speak up right now.
If you are using a microphone and you tend to speak aloud in your regular life, you have to be also
careful.
And that's why it's so important to test the microphone whenever you can, just to kind of gauge the
volume.
Now, recently I was at a conference where they had issues with the volume levels.
And, you know, I noticed that sometimes the speakers were very loud, sometimes they were not loud
enough.
It was one of those weird stages where, you know, it wasn't like this.
So so you didn't have a stage with audience distributed like this in front of you, but it was very
long and very narrow and the way speakers were distributed was just very strange because, you know,
at the back you could barely hear the speaker.
But then in different it was very loud.
So it took a lot of skill to calibrate that situation because if you speak too loud, well, people
at the back will hear you.
People are different.
Well, they'll have to cover their ears because it will be too loud.
If you don't speak loud enough, people in the front will be comfortable still, but people at the back
won't hear you.
And I noticed that a few speakers didn't calibrate.
They didn't test the microphone, they didn't know about the importance of it.
And sometimes they were just shouting into the microphone.
At least that's how it sounded.
Right?
It was really unpleasant.
And that's why it's just so important that you really pay attention to it whenever you can try to test
the microphone so you are aware of the volume.
And honestly, if in doubt, just double check.
Ask people, Hey, is everything fine?
Let me know, can you hear me at the back?
Is it too loud?
Is it too quiet?
People let you know and that's going to help you a lot.

--- How To Fully ENGAGE Your Audience? ---

So let's talk about one of my favorite ways of engaging your audience during a presentation.
And this applies to any presentation, whether you are talking about your story, maybe you are talking
about something technical, perhaps you are taking people through the the weekly or monthly report.
It doesn't matter what it is.
You can always use the strategy and it's about fully engaging with your audience by asking them questions.
And you probably sell speakers doing this.
Maybe you attended a conference where a speaker was asking the audience questions.
I tend to do it pretty much during every single presentation, and it's as simple as sometimes, you
know, at the beginning of the presentation, I simply tell the audience, Listen, I would like to
see the temperature in the room.
I'd like to figure out who is here.
So how many of you are entrepreneurs?
Raise your hand.
Okay.
Roughly 20% of you say, how many of you work for a company?
Raise your hand.
Okay, cool.
25%.
Right.
So I do things like this.
Sometimes I ask different questions.
It all depends on the audience, on the circumstances.
But the point is that I ask people questions and I tell them to raise their hands.
Now, here are some important things when you ask questions, right?
When you tell people, Hey, if you are X, Y or Z, or if you did X, Y or Z, raise your hand.
The moment you say it, you have to raise your hand to yourself, because if you don't do it, your
audience is not very likely to follow you, right?
If you're on a stage and you say, okay, how many of you are entrepreneurs, raise your hand.
All right.
Most people don't want to volunteer to raise their hands.
But if you say, Hey, how many of you are entrepreneurs, just raise your hand, it's very likely that
a lot of them will.
Now, if you are in a smaller group of people, if your audience is pretty small, maybe ten, 15,
20 people, some of those individuals may be afraid that if they raise their hand, you will put them
on a spot.
And remember, most people are afraid of public speaking.
Nobody wants to be put on a spot.
So if you ask them a question, they are not likely to interact with you.
Right?
Need people who are not afraid to get on a stage will be interacting because the rest may think, well,
what if I raise my hand and the speaker says, Oh, oh, great, can you come up here and share your
experience?
Right.
So sometimes it's actually worth saying, hey, by the way, here is the question.
Raise your hand.
Oh, and by the way, just so you know, I'm not going to pick anybody.
I'm not going to make anyone speak.
I just want you to raise your hand.
Now, if you do it this way, people will be less scared to take action and raise their hands.
Now, it's also important that as people are raising their hands, you give them the feedback, your
feedback to them, what you see.
So rather than just saying, hey, raise your hands if, and then a bunch of people raise their hands
and then you just move on.
Now you want to say something nice?
Okay, I see that roughly half of you kind of resonate with this situation.
Or I can see that only 10% of you raised your hands because people are curious, right?
If you ask them questions and you don't relate what you see back to them, well, you are just doing
it for yourself.
You're not doing it for the audience.
And remember, it's always about your audience.
It's not about you, it's always about your audience.
But when you relate back to your audience, whatever it is that you see, they will feel it viscerally.
That is not about you.
It's about them.
You're doing it for them, not for yourself.
Okay, super, super important.
So another thing you can do is ask.
People are raising their hands.
If you really want to make a point, you can tell people something lines up.
By the way, keep your hands up.
Just keep your hands up.
And now look around.
See how many of you resonate with this?
And I do it a lot.
I do it a lot because I feel like this bonds the audience.
This really connects people to one another.
So for example, when I was doing a presentation about overcoming the fear of public speaking and presentation
skills, when I ask people, so let's be honest, how many of you had those situations in the past?
At least one of those situations when, you know, you you had to get on a stage, but you had those
butterflies and you had this anxiety building up in your stomach and you were sweating and you had all
of those symptoms of tremendous anxiety and you didn't want to be there.
How many of you can resonate with this?
How many of you had a situation like this at least once in your lifetime?
Just raise your hand.
And when I see that a lot of people raise their hands, like I see that 90%, 95% of people raise their
hands.
I typically say something lines, okay, keep your hands up.
Just keep your hands up and just look around.
Just look around and I'll let you make them look around.
And I take a pause and I tell them the reason I'm doing this is so you realize that it's not just you
struggling with those types of issues.
There are a lot of other people who face the same challenges.
And when I do this, it really bonds people together because they truly realize that.
Yes.
And fact is not only them facing those challenges, there are other people who are also facing the same
challenges.
And, you know, I got to the point where I know how to intertwine those elements of engagement throughout
my presentation.
So people get on this roller coaster of different emotions.
And at the end, you know, one of the most common pieces of feedback that I get from the individuals
is that they tell me, you know what, I really, really want to thank you for your presentation because
you connected everyone afterwards.
When we went to this networking event, everyone felt so connected.
It was so much easier to talk to people because you showed us that we are actually very similar.
So anyhow, go ahead, use it, abuse it.
I can guarantee you that this engagement strategy always works and you can use it in any presentation.

--- The “Uncomfortable” Pause Made Comfortable ---

Let's talk a little bit about the power of.
So a lot of people feel extremely uncomfortable pausing during their presentations.
We often have this feeling that whenever we make even a little pause, everyone is just staring at us
and everyone is wondering what is happening.
Are you having a panic attack?
Maybe you're losing your composure.
What?
What is happening?
Why are you pausing?
But the reality is that pauses are powerful, especially for your delivery, for the engagement.
You ever noticed that when you are sitting in the audience and the presenters speaking and then suddenly
they make a pause?
Everyone is tuning in, right?
Suddenly even people who are on their phones, people who are not paying attention, they start paying
attention because, hey, if there is a pause, that breaks the pattern.
So as a speaker, I really encourage you to make pauses consciously, right?
And one of the ways you can do it is whenever you want to put more emphasis on a very specific point,
you can pause right before.
So let's say that you are a leader in your company and you are doing a presentation and you want to
you want to give props to your employees and tell them what a great job they did selling, let's say,
200,000 units.
You can do it in two different ways.
You can say something on the lines of, hey, by the way, congratulations to everybody.
We sell 200,000 units over the last quarter.
Amazing job, everyone.
Right?
If you say it this way, you are not really putting much emphasis on 200,000.
Right.
And it can get lost in the entire message.
It doesn't sound very motivating.
It probably will not inspire people that much.
However, if you say something, the lines of, Hey everyone, I just want to see massive congratulations.
Because over the last quarter we sold 210,000 units.
200,000 units.
Unbelievable.
Great job, everyone.
Now this makes a difference, right?
There is more emotion in it.
And because of that pause right before the number, you put more emphasis on that number.
So now everyone is tuning in and now it sounds like a big deal.
Anyhow, short video.
But this is something that's very important and is one of those low hanging fruits.
You definitely should be using the power of pauses and at the same time, when you pause, you also
allow yourself to regain your composure.
So let's say that you've been presenting for the last 45 minutes and you feel a little bit exhausted
if you want to catch a breath, taking a little pause.
It's actually a great thing because again, it's going to break the pattern.
People will tune in again and it gives you an opportunity to take a deep breath, to recalibrate and
keep moving forward.
And again, as you are doing this, I know it feels uncomfortable initially because you may have this
feeling that everyone is suddenly thinking that something went wrong.
And the reason that happens is because of the perception of time, right?
Your pause may take only one or 2 seconds, but in your head you may have a perception that you paused
for five or 10 seconds.
So the perception we have of time as speakers is completely different.
So take this into account, and what I recommend you to do is I recommend you to practice pausing.
So as you are practicing the delivery of your presentation in front of your phone, I want you to consciously
try to pause from time to time, then watch the video and see the difference.

--- Revealing Your Human Side ---

When delivering a presentation and talking about yourself, I really encourage you to try to maintain
that healthy balance between showcasing your credibility factors, but also using some of that authentic
vulnerability that basically shows that you are just a human being, shows that you are humble.
And the reason is that is if you just focus on your accomplishments, if you just talk about your qualifications
and incredible experiences you've had.
There's always a risk that you may come across as a show off person, right?
We come across as somebody who is too full of themselves.
So what you want to do is you want to have that healthy dance in between credibility and authentic vulnerability.
Right now, I know it's not easy and it's not something that a lot of people are used to, but it's
really powerful when you can, on the one hand, showcase why you are an expert in your topic, what
you've managed to do within your field, but then attach a little bit of vulnerability to it, for example,
by using self-deprecating humor.
Now, of course, you don't want to overdo it.
A lot of people, you know, they go down that route and then they overdo it and they they joke a little
bit too much about themselves putting themselves down.
You definitely don't want to do that, because that also shows the lack of belief in yourself.
But you want to maintain this really healthy balance where on the one hand you are confident, you believe
in yourself, you know that you are meant to be there, you are meant to be on that stage.
You definitely have a lot, a lot of value to convey to your audience.
But at the same time, you don't take yourself seriously.
And when you look at some of the best speakers out there, well, this is exactly what they do.
Right?
As you're watching them, you feel like, wow, that person is definitely qualified to do what they
do.
They know a ton.
They've experienced a lot, but they don't take themselves too seriously.
Right.
And there's nothing more attractive than that.
A person who is on the top of their game, but at the same time they don't feel the need to shout from
the rooftops, Hey, look at me.
Here I am.
I am amazing, right?
You ever had a situation when you met somebody and they were just talking about themselves and they
were telling you about their accomplishments and which company they work for or how much money they've
made.
And it just leaves this this bad taste in your mouth.
But on the flip side, I'm sure you had situations when you met somebody and that person was super humble
and very nice and asking questions and being curious and interested in you.
And then later on you found out, wow, that person is extremely successful.
Now that makes a really positive impression.
So, so be that second person.
Now, having said that, of course, as you are presenting, you have to share some credibility factors.
You have to tell people why you are qualified to be there.
But again, maintain the balance.

--- Other Ways To Engage Your Audience ---

So I would like to tell you about a different way to engage your audience.
Now, this will not apply to every single situation, but I want to mention this here, because it's
something that you can use very powerfully.
And it's about allowing your audience to interact with one another.
And I want to talk to you about it, because on the one hand, it is very powerful, but also it poses
certain risks.
So I'm going to share with you a little story of what happened to me a couple of years ago.
And it's one of those stories that clearly shows that I didn't do the right job.
So I'm going to embrace a bit of vulnerability and share with you one of my mistakes.
So when was it?
Almost four years ago.
I was presenting at a conference called The Annex.
It's a digital nomad conference.
It was taking place in Lisbon, and I was doing the main keynote, closing the entire event.
It was a 25 minute talk.
I was really looking forward to it.
So I got on a stage, I started talking, introduce myself, told people what's going to happen, right,
build some connection with them.
And at some point I decided to initiate an interaction between the audience members.
But I didn't frame it properly.
I didn't tell people how much time exactly they have.
I didn't tell them that.
It is important that we get back to the talk right away.
I simply told them something in the lines of, Look, I'm going to give you some time now so you can
introduce yourself to one another.
And I don't remember exactly what I said, but I made them share something with each other.
So I basically gave all the power to the audience.
And I remember that after roughly a minute I wanted to get back to my presentation.
I said, Hey, okay, thank you so much.
Thank you for the interaction.
Please sit down, let's get back to it.
But because that particular room was very strange, it was one of those very long, narrow rooms.
So imagine I'm standing here, this is the stage and the room just went like this very long room, right?
So I said, Hey, let's get back to it.
But people were so engaged, you know, this was the end of the day.
They were really excited.
People just kept talking and you could see people laughing and sharing stories.
And I said, All right, guys, thank you.
Thank you so much.
Okay, let's let's get back to it.
But a lot of people, especially at the back, just kept talking to one another.
And that's one of the risks that, you know, that can happen when you give the audience some time to
interact with one another, especially when you have a very vibrant social audience.
They crave that opportunity to talk to one another.
And often what happens is some people are so tuned into that they no longer hear you right.
They are conversing with another person, maybe sharing something deep that happened to them and they
are not hearing anything else.
So at some point people who are sitting in the front, they started clapping because they saw what was
happening and the speakers were in the front.
So people at the back couldn't hear me that well.
Now imagine you are talking to somebody.
You have a lot of people around you talking to one another, and then you can barely hear the speaker,
right?
You don't know what's happening.
So people in the front started clapping and at some point everybody came back to me and tuned in back
into my presentation.
Now, you may be wondering, okay, maybe, maybe it was a boring presentation.
Maybe people didn't want to tune back in.
But in fact, a lot of individuals told me afterwards, Hey, this was my favorite presentation of the
event.
And even I, as the organizer say, what was your highlight of the event?
And they told me actually the highlight was your talk.
So I'm just putting this out there because you may think, well, maybe people didn't want to get it
back to you because they were bored, but that wasn't the case.
Right.
So it's interesting.
I'm telling you, it is not to show off that it was such a great presentation, but but to show you
that even though people were fully engaged, people really enjoyed my presentation, they still found
it difficult to tune back into it once I gave them that opportunity to interact with one another.
So you may be wondering, okay, Jimi, you said it was a mistake, so what could have been done differently?
You said that if you could go back, you would have done it differently.
Well, it's actually very simple.
So nowadays, whenever I give an opportunity to the audience to interact with one another, I make the
rules very clear from the from the very beginning.
So rather than just saying, hey, interact with one another, share X, Y or Z without giving the time
frame, I'm very specific.
I tell people, look, in a second, I will give you 60 seconds.
You will have a little interaction with someone sitting next to you.
You will share exactly X, Y or Z, right?
Or whatever, whatever the presentation is about.
I'll give you 30 seconds each, 60 seconds in total.
And it's very important that after doing it, you tune back in because we have limited time.
And from my experience, sometimes it's difficult to tune back into the presentation, but it's important
that you stick to the time.
Sounds good.
Okay, let's do it.
And when I frame it.
Like this.
It's much easier for me after one minute.
Say every one.
Ten more seconds.
Okay, everyone, let's get back to it.
Thank you so much.
And I raise my voice and that's kind of that's kind of a trigger for if you want to, you know, to
get back into the presentation.
So it's really important to set that set of rules.
Now, sometimes what I also do is I typically go to the audio people at the back and I tell them, listen,
at some point during my presentation, I will tell people that they can interact with one another.
It's going to be roughly 60 seconds.
So can we put some music in there?
When I tell them to interact, can you supply some maybe nice tracks, some upbeat song and then stop
it?
The moment I tell people that they run out of time and typically they say, Yeah, no problem, we can't
do it.
Do you have any recommendations for the music or should we pick something?
And then what happens is I tell people, Look, you will interact with one another.
The sound people at the back will put some nice music, but when the music stops, the interaction is
over and we are getting back into the presentation and that only reinforces that point of return and
allows me to get people back into my presentations anyhow.
Allowing people to interact with one another during your presentation can be really powerful, so definitely
use it whenever you feel like it can benefit your presentation.
But at the same time, please remember about some of the things that I told you about.
So you make sure that you can go from your presentation to the interaction and then back into your presentation
very smoothly.

--- Time Management During Your Speech ---

When I talk to aspiring presenters, it seems like one of the most challenging parts of delivery is
time management.
So how do you manage your time, whether you have 10 minutes or one hour to deliver your presentation?
And I agree that it can be really tricky sometimes, but here are some of my thoughts.
So when you are presenting on a big stage, typically there is a timer.
It all depends on a stage, but usually they have some type of timer in front of you.
The audience cannot see it, but you can see it.
And in some cases they actually have another screen where you can also see your slides in front of you.
So you don't have to look like this all the time.
You can actually just look in front of you and you see your slides.
Now, what I recommend you to do is, rather than assuming that you will have a timer in front of you,
always double check with the organizer, double check to be ready.
Because the last thing you want and I had those situations, you expect a timer because the stage is
massive, but then it turns out that they don't have a timer.
And now you start panicking.
Now when there is no timer during your presentation, what you can do is you can ask the organizer or
one of your friends or colleagues to basically prompt you whenever you pass a certain time in your presentation.
So for example, you can say, Hey, when I have 20 minutes left, it would be great if you can just
raise your notepad and make sure that I see it.
And if you could do this as well 5 minutes before the end, that would be really useful.
So I know when to wrap up my presentation, so that's another way to do it.
But having said that, the most important thing is your preparation, because that's why you have to
focus so much on your practice.
You know, typically people who struggle with time management during their presentations are those individuals
who just haven't practiced enough.
Now, once you work on your structure, you work on your content, you know the flow of your delivery
and you practice it multiple times.
You will be able to calibrate the time extremely well.
You know, nowadays when I get on a stage, tell me 20 minutes, one hour, 75 minutes, whatever it
is, and I can calibrate to the minute without even seeing the timer because I practiced so much right
now.
I know that you may be a beginner presenter and that's completely fine and I know it's going to take
some time for you to calibrate.
But still, if you do enough practice rounds with the timer is going to be much easier for you to manage
your time during any presentation.

--- Adopt Powerful Body Language: Introduction ---

Welcome to this section about your body language.
So in the previous section we were talking about your delivery and obviously body language is a part
of your delivery on a stage in front of an audience.
But the reality is that body language is so important that I decided to devote the entire section to
it.
There are certain things that you really have to remember about and is one of those low hanging fruits
that you can literally use the right body language to go from here to here in terms of the quality of
your delivery.
So in this section, I'm going to share with you a variety of tools, strategies, techniques and hacks
pertinent to body language that will make you feel and appear as a more comfortable, confident, powerful,
charismatic presenter.
So I hope that you are excited.
And let's get started.

--- Body Language Fundamentals ---

Okay.
So let's start with the basics.
Let's talk a little bit about your posture now.
One of the biggest mistakes you can make is to have the slouchy posture.
And I know what I'm talking about because I used to slouch all the time.
When you see some of my pictures from back in the day, I used to stand like this all the time, looking
down, often crossing my arms.
And when you look at me right now, just just just look at me for a moment and ask yourself, how do
I appear as a presenter when I'm standing like this, crossing my arms, slouching and looking down?
Do I seem confident?
Do I seem genuine?
Do I seem charismatic?
Well, probably not.
Right.
And on top of that, I don't feel confident and charismatic when maintaining this posture, because
whatever you do with your body sends a signal to your brain, Hey, hey, you are standing like this.
Therefore, you are probably not feeling very good.
You are probably not feeling very open, energetic and charismatic.
In fact, right now I want you to try this posture yourself.
So cross your arms, slouch and look down instead.
Stay like this for a couple of seconds.
And you mentioned that you are on a stage right now just like this.
And how do you feel how do you feel in terms of your level of confidence, charisma, energy?
Right.
I can already sense doing this for the last 30 seconds.
My energy is already going down, so I better open up because I still have a lot of videos to film.
But the point is, when you are standing like this, it sends a signal to your brain, well, we are
defensive.
We don't have a lot of energy.
Right.
We are a little bit unsure about what we have to say.
This is the signal that's being sent.
So instead of embracing this posture, well, you want to open up, that's for sure.
You want to open up.
You always want to stand up straight.
When you're on a stage, you've got to get your shoulder blades together.
You want to look straight ahead and you want to always embrace the power of open position.
So first of all, you will feel better about yourself.
You will feel more energetic, you will feel more positive, you will feel more confident, more open.
But also your audience will perceive you as a more compelling presenter.
One of the reasons for that is it's hardwired in our brains.
Back in the day when we were very tribal creatures, if you went to another tribe like this or like
this, they didn't really know whether you had any weapon on you.
Right?
There was a possibility that you had some type of weapon, maybe a stone, perhaps a knife.
So naturally, when we see someone who is hiding their palms, somebody who is holding their arms behind
their back, we feel a little bit defensive.
Right.
They don't seem fully genuine.
They don't seem fully open.
But the moment you open up and you show your palms, you in a way send a signal to everyone around you,
hey, I come in peace.
I'm open.
I'm positive.
I don't want to harm you.
Okay?
I come in peace.
I'm one of your allies.
This is what you project when you open up and when you show your palms.
Now, one more thing about posture.
So a lot of people ask me, okay, Jimmy, I get it and make sense, but I keep slouching.
I can't do anything about it, you know, as much as I try, I just keep getting back to this slouchy
position.
And again, I know how you feel because I used to experience it myself, right?
I really try to get rid of that behavior, but it was very difficult.
And I guess what helps reminders, set reminders on your phone, right?
Simply simply write don't slouch and set it up for a couple of times per day, because it's not just
about changing this behavior on a micro scale when you're presenting, but it's about incorporating
this new posture, the confidence trait posture in your everyday life.
That's what you want to do and the ideal situation, right?
So you want to set up those reminders.
So every time you slouch, you know, once in a while you will get that ping and you'll see the reminder,
don't slouch.
But this is your this is your trigger, right?
To stand up straight.
And if you keep doing this, if you keep working on it, eventually you will change.
Now, one thing I recommend you to do is to also set reminders, create little checklists before the
presentation of some of the things that you should avoid doing and some of the things you should be
doing.
Just just to remind yourself.
So when you get on a stage right before you get on a stage, actually, I want you to pay extra attention
to your body language, to your posture.
Right.
If you find yourself doing this and I talked about it in some other videos, the this hide mode, right.
We want to hide.
When you find yourself doing this, straighten up.
Open up your arms.
Take a few deep breaths, look straight and embrace the positive internal talk.
Right.
Remember, anxiety versus excitement, right?
You want to focus on the excitement.
You want to create positive emotions.
And when you do all of that, when you get on a stage like this, you feel way more confident and way
more captivating.

--- Biggest Mistakes to Avoid ---

Let's talk a little bit about some of the biggest mistakes you should avoid when you are presenting.
So the first one is that you should never turn your back at the audience, and this is something that
a lot of people do.
Unfortunately, I used to make that mistake myself, but the audience doesn't want to see your back.
So even as you are walking around the stage, you want to make sure that you always face the audience.
Don't have to always face them like this.
But you may want to stand like this.
You definitely don't want to turn your back to the audience.
This is a big no go.
Another mistake to avoid is obviously crossing your arms.
We talked about it a little bit in the video about the power of your open position versus the class
position.
But one thing that's a huge no go is touching your face.
Now, this can be tricky if you feel a bit itchy, right?
But at the same time, you should really avoid touching your face.
And the reason is that we humans associate someone touching their face with being dishonest, which
not being fully genuine.
Right.
You probably notice when you see somebody talking to you and they scratch their face or they scratch
their eye or they're maybe covered their mouth, it just doesn't feel like they are very genuine.
And that's why you should avoid it.
Now, you may say, Well, Jimmy, but I'm itchy, right?
Mosquito bite me.
I get it.
But people don't know it, right?
You don't have a disclaimer that says, Hey, I got bitten by a mosquito.
I have to touch my face.
People subconsciously may assume that you are not fully genuine and that's why really try to avoid touching
your face.
And by the way, this applies to many different situations in life.
Pretty much any social situation, whether it's interacting with with people going on a date, doing
a negotiation, doesn't matter what it is.
When you are interacting with people, you should never touch your face.
Now what do you do?
If you really have to scratch your face?
Well, then scratch it, but scratch it properly, right?
If you really have to scratch yourself here, don't do it like this, right?
Don't fidget.
Scratch yourself in that set.
Right, because that's going to look real.
But if you if you keep touching your face, if you keep slowly covering your mouth again, it sends
a wrong signal.
So there are two more mistakes I want to mention here, and they are very common.
That's why I'm talking about them in this video.
And one of them is petting the hamster.
Right.
Some people call it like this sounds pretty funny, but it's disposition and usually happens because
a lot of us feel uncomfortable using our hands during presentations that it feels like they just feel
so unnecessary.
It feels like you just want to go out there and present.
You don't want to do anything with your hands and you know you shouldn't hold them in your pocket.
You know that you shouldn't be crossing your arms.
You know you shouldn't be doing this.
So it just feels very awkward.
And in those situations, a lot of people just keep their hands like this.
But this this just looks a little bit weird.
And on top of that, it sends a signal that you are just not very sure of yourself.
So if in doubt, hold your hands like this or even like this, this is better.
This is already better.
Standing up straight, holding your hands like this versus doing this awkward hamster position.
And finally, one more thing I have to mention, because it's very important is never point at your
audience.
Because here's the thing.
When you point out people, even though your message may be positive, this always looks negative.
So I'm going to give you an example.
Let's say I'm talking to you on a stage and I'm telling you, hey, you can definitely do it.
You can make it happen.
Now, how do you feel?
You probably feel negative.
You probably feel negative towards me because this looks like I'm telling you to do something.
Even though my message verbally may be positive, you still perceive it as something negative.
So never do this.
And even as I'm saying this, you probably feel it, right?
You probably feel this negative charge.
So instead of pointing at your audience when you want to make a point, use this gesture.
Right?
Look what a difference it makes when you put your palm up, you open it up.
It makes such a huge difference.
So remember about it.
And again, these are just a couple of the most common mistakes that you should avoid during presenting.
Over time, I'm going to be adding more bonus material so you can learn how to become an incredible,
captivating presenter.

--- The Art of Moving ---

Let's talk a little bit about stage movements.
So let's say let's imagine that this is a stage right.
Let's say that those 3 to 4 meters are my stage.
Now, one of the biggest mistakes that people make is that they just keep standing in one spot.
And usually when you have some table or something to put your things on, people hide behind it, right?
People hide behind that little podium.
So.
So the audience cannot sit there full body language.
You definitely don't want to hide behind it.
Right.
But let's say you don't have any party.
Let's say you are just on a stage.
You definitely don't want to just stand in one place.
You want to avoid that.
You want to use the entire stage.
However, you don't want to fidget.
So the last thing you want to do is to walk like this, like a raging bull, you know, just just walking
around all the time.
And some people do it, especially when they are stressed.
They walk from one side to the other and it feels fidgety.
Right?
It feels fidgety.
You should definitely use the entire space you have, but you have to do it in a smooth manner.
You have to do it with a sense of purpose.
So I made another video where I talk about eye contact, how you divide your audience into different
sections.
So what I would say is you also want to divide the stage into different sections.
I would say three main sections, the middle, and you have to the right and to the left.
These are your three main sections.
And as you make different points, you move from section to section.
So, so you start a presentation, you tell people, Hey, thank you so much for coming.
My name is Jimmy NARINE.
Ba ba ba ba ba.
You talk about that and then you walk a little bit and then you make a point and now you are talking
to that side of the audience and you're primarily looking over there, right?
You're talking a little bit talking.
And then maybe you look over there, talk a little bit.
And as you look there.
You move again to the middle and you make another point.
You talk a little bit, maybe for 20 seconds, 30 seconds, and then you move here and then again,
you talk for 20 to 30 seconds.
You start looking there and then you move again to the middle.
Now, usually the middle is the place where you can spend most of your time.
So as you go to the middle, of course, you talk primarily to people in front of you, but you still
want to give some attention to people on your left and on your right.
And then again, when you go to the right side of the stage, even though you are primarily addressing
people over there because you are closest to them, you still want to give some eye contact and some
attention to people over there.
It's very important.
Now, you may ask me.
Okay, so, Jimi, if I divide my stage into three different sections, should I spend the same amount
of time in each section?
And the answer is no, not really.
Right.
This is just an example.
Okay.
There is no really right or wrong.
There are different ways of approaching it, right?
As long as you move on a stage, if you move from place to place on a stage and address different parts
of the audience, you will do just fine.
I just tried to simplify it for you because quite frankly, I could give you 20 different examples for
different stages, for different workshops, but it's going to be very confusing.
And I want this course to be simple.
And these are the basics.
These are the fundamentals.
If you do just this, if you move from section to section to section, slowly, smoothly, and address
to your entire audience, you will be better than 99% of presenters.
Right.
But one thing you have to remember about is that typically you can spend the most of your time in the
middle of this stage.
Right?
Because in the middle, well, you are in the middle, you can address every single person.
There is this balance.
So when you are here, you spend most of your time here addressing the middle, both sides of the audience,
and then move around the stage however you please.
Now, another thing that you can do, and this is something that I like to do, and most people don't
do it because it just feels uncomfortable for them.
But it's really powerful.
One thing you can do as well is you can get off the stage or get to the edge of the stage.
Right.
So let's say here we have those bricks over there.
Maybe, Eduardo, you can show the bricks over there.
Let's say that this is the edge.
Let's see that this is the edge of the stage.
Typically, what I like to do as well, when I make a very important point, or let's say I'm making
the biggest point of the presentation, I like to get all the way.
To the edge of the stage where let's see if I take one more step.
I'm going to fall off the stage.
I'm directly in front of people and then I dress them.
And that's when I use the power of pausing.
I slow down a little bit.
I made a separate video about it, but I make it pause.
I look at everyone and I make my most important points.
Now, if you want to take it to the next level, and this is what I like to do as well sometimes, but
you have to double check it with the with the sound people if your microphone will work properly.
I like to jump off the stage and I like to get into the audience.
So let's say that, you know, let's say that we have audience here and we have audience here and we
have audience there.
Sometimes what I like to do when I want to connect with the audience is I like to jump off the stage
and I like to walk in between the audience members and just look around and have direct eye contact
with different people.
Right.
And almost nobody does that.
But whenever you do it, you develop a tremendous connection with your audience.
And also there's the shock effect because people don't expect it.
Therefore, they give you a lot of props just for doing that.
It's something memorable.
It's something that that that makes people it just makes people talk about your presentation afterwards.
Anyhow, this is it actually perfect timing because it starts raining and I can see Edward is getting
really scared about his equipment.
So we're going to finish like this.
Thank you for watching.
And remember, stage presence is important.
Utilize your entire stage.
Whether you are on the real stage or in a room in front of people doesn't matter.
Walk around.
Connect with people from different sides of your audience.

--- Extra Video: Digital Body Language ---

Let's talk about your digital body language now.
Your digital body language is extremely important and some of you may be thinking digital body language.
Is that even a thing?
Yes, it is.
And in reality, a lot of us unfortunately think that the moment we get behind our laptops, our body
language doesn't matter.
And of course, when you are in a real room with real people, they can see from all the different angles.
Your body language is a bit more important, but when you are in front of your laptop, when you are
presenting or you are attending some type of team meeting, or maybe you are negotiating something on
Zoom, your body language is also very important for many different reasons.
First of all, what you do with your body will impact how you feel on the inside.
So if you cross your arms, if you slouch, if you sit in some weird position, that's going to impact
how you feel and it may lower your level of energy, it may change how you feel about yourself.
You may feel less confident, for example, if you are slouching or if you are, you are sitting like
this in a big armchair.
So it is important that you work on cultivating that positive, confident, powerful body language just
so you feel better.
At the same time, even though people can't see you from all the different angles, they can still see
you.
They can still see your posture, they can see your eye contact, they can see your arms.
So it's really important that you maintain the right posture, that you maintain an open position.
Now, one important thing about digital body language is that you have to position your webcam in a
correct way.
A lot of people make a mistake of getting way too close to the camera.
If I were to get really close to you right now, you may feel like I'm invading your space.
You ever had a situation when you talk to somebody at a business gathering and this is the frame, you
literally see their face right in the lens.
It feels a bit invasive.
It feels like they are too close to you.
It's almost like they are invading your personal space.
And even though you are not with them physically in one location, it still feels a little bit strange.
It feels like someone is invading your personal space.
On the other hand, if somebody is too far, it feels like they are distant.
They are a little bit defensive.
They are not even here.
Okay, so how do you position yourself in front of the camera?
Well, you want to make sure that half of your body is visible, ideally from the waist up.
You want to be visible on the webcam.
And the reason is that you want people to see your arms.
You want people to see how you gesticulate.
You want them to see your open position.
And most importantly, you want people to see your palms.
When they see your palms, they know that you are trustworthy.
Because remember back in the day when we were very tribal creatures, if you came up to somebody with
your hands behind your back, well, maybe you have a weapon there.
Maybe there's a knife, maybe there is a spear, maybe there is something else.
But the moment you show your palms, you're essentially, stop communicating.
Hey, I don't want to have any trouble.
I come in peace.
I don't have any weapons on me.
So you want to make sure that you show people your palms and you'll notice the moment you start doing
calls like this online, people will treat you differently.
You will come across as a more trustworthy, confident and charismatic person.
Also, another thing, eye contact, very important.
Now, you notice that in this course, sometimes I use my sunglasses.
Well, the reason I do it is because we are the Canary Islands.
The sun is really strong and I have a choice to make, right?
I either film in a boring room or I come out here to some of the nicest locations in the Canary Islands.
But when the sun is shining right into my, my, my eyes, obviously I'm squinting, right?
So sometimes I have to use my sunglasses.
But in a regular situation, you want to make sure that you never use sunglasses.
You want to make sure that you look people directly into their eyes.
Now, obviously, when you are talking to somebody via webcam, you can look at their eyes.
But if you look at the webcam, rather than just looking at the screen, you will create a perception
that you are having a direct eye contact with whoever is watching you, and that's going to make all
the difference.
So here it is, just some tips for making the most of your online gatherings and online presentations
to make sure that your body language is as positive, as confident, as charismatic as it can possibly
be.
I hope that you enjoy this video and I'm going to see you in the next one.

--- Extra Video: Examples of Body Language ---

What's going on, everyone.
So in this video, I'm going to show you some examples of body language in terms of what to do and what
not to do.
We have B-roll camera over there as well.
So what I'm going to do is I want to just show you different poses and you can see yourself how they
make you feel.
And I feel like this way it will be easier for you to identify how to adjust your own body language,
to feel and also look more confident, more charismatic, powerful and positive.
Okay.
So first of all, the open position versus closed position, we have a basic open position here, fairly
neutral.
Right.
I'm looking straight at a camera.
Let's see how this makes you feel.
So the chances are me just standing like this with this open, neutral position makes me look fairly
positive.
Confident, yet not very charismatic.
I probably don't seem very charismatic right now.
I'm literally not moving my body.
It could be it could be a mannequin.
It could be fake body with a head attach.
Right now, when I start moving my arms, when I show you my palms, most probably you feel a little
bit better about me.
You probably feel like I'm more open, more positive, and especially more charismatic.
There is some movement, there's something going on.
And because I show you my palms, you can in a way, even subconsciously, you feel like I'm more trustworthy.
You remember that principle of showing the palms that basically means that I don't have any weapons
on me.
So you feel safer?
At the same time as I use my body language like this, I probably seem more inspiring.
More motivating, right?
You see, I now I'm adding some facial expressions I'm trying to express.
And most probably this already makes a difference.
Anyhow, I'm showing you those examples.
We can see how you feel about it and then you can practice those types of positions.
Now what about this?
What about me closing my arms like this?
How does it make you feel?
What if I talk to you like this?
How does it make you feel?
Do I look positive?
Do I look confident?
Do I look charismatic?
Probably not very charismatic.
Probably not too positive, but confident.
You can see that.
I look confident now.
But the question is, do you want to look confident without charisma, without positive energy, without
this open, open minded energy?
Probably not.
Right.
So so again, this position is not ideal.
What about this?
Do I look confident?
Do I look charismatic?
Do I look positive that look open?
Probably not.
Probably.
I look like a person who's just a little bit confused.
I'm not sure what I'm doing here.
And I don't believe in myself.
Right.
You see, little change makes such a big difference from the neutral position to this confused, to
this confident yet defensive to charismatic and positive and happy.
Huge difference with little, little changes.
So you've got to practice those things.
Now, let's look from the profile.
Imagine that I'm standing like this.
Imagine you see somebody who's standing like this, slouching and looking down and just evaluate me
right now.
If you enter a conference room, if you enter some type of meeting room and you see a person like this,
what do you think about them?
Positive, confident, charismatic.
High status?
Probably not.
What about this makes a big difference, right?
It makes a big difference.
What about this?
Confident, but again, not very charismatic.
But now let's juxtapose the basic slouching position.
Me looking down to me using my arms to their full extent.
And me opening up and gesticulating and just see the difference.
Look at me now and try to assess me from 1 to 10 in terms of my charisma, my positive energy status.
Imagine you see somebody like this in a conference room, and now let's change and imagine that you
see somebody who stands in a room like this and talks and does all of those things.
It makes a difference.
It makes a huge difference.
These are tiny changes that you can make that that make a massive, massive difference.
Again, what about this?
Hey, can you please print that document for me?
I would really appreciate it.
Can you please print that document?
I would really appreciate it.
Versus, Hey, can you please print that document?
I would really appreciate it.
Huge difference.
The only change is this, this versus this.
So again, that's another thing that you take into account as you are using your own body, right?
As you are using your own nonverbal signals.
Now, what about this?
Imagine you're talking to somebody and someone is looking at you like this, nodding.
Oh, yeah.
Mm hmm.
Versus.
Yeah.
Hmm.
Makes a difference, right?
So I'm squinting my eyes.
I'm kind of biting on my lips.
And this suggests that I don't like what I see.
I don't like what I see.
But the moment I'm not, I have my eyes opened.
I have a little smile.
I'm like, Oh, yeah.
Mm hmm.
That's active listening versus.
Yeah, yeah.
I understand.
You see, this looks like I'm saying something, but I'm not congruent.
I'm saying that I understand.
I'm saying that I agree with you, but my lips and my eyes show something completely different versus
again.
Oh, yeah.
You make a great point.
Awesome.
I agree.
Finally, what about this example?
What about me saying hello to you like this?
Imagine you.
You come, you, you introduce yourself to me.
We meet each other for the first time and I do something like this.
Oh, hi.
Hey.
Nice to meet you.
Pleasure.
My name is Jimmy.
How would it make you feel?
Pleasure.
My name is Jimmy.
What about a different situation?
You come over to me, you want to introduce yourself, and I say, Oh, hey, hey, my name is Jimmy.
Nice to meet you.
How does it make you feel versus you coming up to me to introduce yourself and me looking up at you.
Oh, hey.
Pleasure.
Nice to meet you.
My name is Jimmy.
Real pleasure.
Right?
Something like this makes a big difference, right?
Okay, so this is it.
I really hope that you enjoy this video.
I hope that this gave you some additional food for thought and that it inspired you to practice some
of those body language pauses.
Let me know what you think, and I'm going to see you in the next video.

--- Introduction ---

Welcome to this section about the best practices after your presentation.
And it's one of those fairly short sections, at least in comparison to other sections in this course.
But the reason I'm putting it in here is because a lot of people have a misconception that presenting
is just about getting in front of an audience presenting.
And that's it.
That's it, right?
You finish your presentation and you can just go back home and relax.
And of course you could do that.
Technically, nothing terrible will happen if you do just that.
But in reality, there are certain opportunities that show up after you present and you should definitely
take advantage of them.
There are certain things that you should definitely remember about in terms of what you should do or
shouldn't do after your presentation.
So this section will be all about that.
It will be fairly short, but is very important as well.
So let's get started.

--- Taking Advantage of “Stage Effect” ---

Let's talk about something called the stage effect.
So let me ask you, have you ever had a situation when you were presenting and before your presentation,
you felt like a pretty unknown person?
Nobody really went out of their way to talk to you.
You were just minding your own business.
And then you get on a stage and then as you finish your presentation, suddenly people look at you differently,
right?
So people come up to you.
Maybe they want to ask you for a picture.
Or if it's a business setting, maybe they want to talk to you.
They want to ask you questions.
It's almost like you went from unknown to almost like a micro celebrity.
Now, of course, this will depend on the type of presentation that you are delivering, but there is
something called the stage effect.
And naturally, as humans, whenever we see someone who presents in front of a crowd, we give them
higher status, right?
Because this is the embodiment of true leadership.
If you get out there in front of people, especially if it's a big audience or really important audience,
it basically communicates that you are the highest status person in the room.
After all, everyone is listening to you.
Everyone is tuning in.
If you didn't have anything to say, if you didn't have experience and knowledge, nobody would be listening
to you.
So once you once you get on a stage, people assume that you are the highest status person in the room.
And it's so fascinating.
And a lot of people don't take advantage of that stage effect.
And fortunately, many speakers finish their presentations.
And as their hearts are still beating fast, they decide, okay, that's it.
It wasn't as bad as I thought.
Let me go back home.
Let me relax and I get it.
I completely understand this approach, but I believe that you should use that stage effect to your
advantage, because when you really think about it, that's when some of the biggest opportunities will
come your way, whether it's within your company or externally.
Right.
And even if you present in your own company for ten or 20 or 30 people, there is still that stage effect
to some extent.
You've been a leader of for the last ten, 20, 30, 40 minutes, whatever, whatever it is that your
presentation lasted for.
So right now, after speaking up in front of all of those people, your valuation is the highest, right?
People perceive you as a leader, right?
You just finished delivering a presentation and this is when some of the best opportunities will come.
This is probably a good time to have some of those conversations that are not easy to have that maybe
require a bit more confidence, right?
Maybe you want to introduce an idea for a new project or perhaps you want to talk to the CEO of the
company or to your direct supervisor or whatever it is.
Right.
This is the time.
This is the time because you are in the zone you've been just presenting.
You are in your flow.
You are in this talkative state and you are perceived as a leader.
You have a lot of power now.
You should use it.
If you are speaking externally, perhaps you are presenting at a conference.
This is the time to embrace all types of opportunities because guess what?
People come up to you and they'll tell you, Hey, wow, thank you so much.
I really enjoyed your speech.
I especially like the point about X, Y and Z and people will be coming up to you and you will notice
if you stick around, if you stick around, if you open yourself up to those opportunities, people
will approach you or they will give you signals to approach them, and you should take advantage of
that.
That's how you can get your best clients.
That's how you can make your best partnerships, right?
Because now you have this aura, you have this special aura, this the sense of a person, of a leader
who just was on a stage.
Right.
And I know it may be hard to wrap your head around it if you've never experienced it.
It may be tricky to to figure out how it feels.
But let me tell you, from my experience, it's incredible how it works.
It's literally almost as if you have some special aura and the doors start opening up.
But you know what's crazy?
The crazy thing is that that stage effect doesn't last for a long time.
Okay, so you become a micro celebrity for an hour, maybe 2 hours, maybe even a day.
But you can be the same people the day after or a few days after, and you become just the regular person,
right?
So suddenly the opportunities that would have showed up right after your speech, well, they are not
there anymore.
All right.
So, you know, Jim Rohn used to say actually that opportunities are like a cup of tea.
A cup of tea stays warm only for a little while.
So you have to take advantage of opportunities when they show up.
And that's why, you know, you should, first of all, stick around after your presentation.
Just stick around, just just budget that time in your calendar so you can be there.
So this way you can allow people who may have opportunities to work with you so they can come to you
and talk to you.
And also, if there are certain things that you want to do, right, maybe you want to talk to a particular
person, maybe you have a specific idea, right?
And now's the time to act.
Now is the time to welcome opportunities and to chase them as.
Well, because you have all this energy, right?
You are in a talkative state.
You are a winner state.
You feel like a leader.
You are perceived as a leader.
You have that stage effect.
So make the most of it.

--- How To Keep Getting Better ---

So after your presentation, when people come up to you to tell you why they like your presentation,
what was so great about it?
I highly encourage you to also ask for constructive feedback.
And I'm saying this because a lot of people will not feel comfortable telling you what they didn't like
that much.
And, you know, it's good for our egos to hear from everyone.
Hey, this was an amazing presentation.
You did so well, but it doesn't really help you to get better.
So what I try to do myself and it's not easy, but I try to push myself to do it is I try to dig deep
and I try to ask people, okay, thank you.
I appreciate your compliment.
But in all honesty, if you had to pick one thing that could have been done better, or if you had to
pick one thing that maybe I did wrong that you feel like was a little bit off, what would it be?
And the way I frame it is I tell people, Look, I appreciate your feedback.
That's how I learn.
So you cannot possibly offend me right now.
Anything you tell me, I'll take that into account.
And if you have this authentic approach of authentically asking for feedback, not asking just to seem
polite and to seem humble, but genuinely wanting feedback, wow, you're going to learn so much and
make sure that whenever people give you feedback, stay open to it.
Because the last thing you want to do is to ask for feedback.
That person finally summons the courage to tell you what they think about your presentation.
For example, they tell you, Well, it was a great presentation, but I think sometimes you are speaking
a bit too fast.
You know, it was hard to understand.
Now, you may have a temptation to now retort by saying, Well, I was speaking fast because I just
wanted to give you as much value as possible.
So I did it for you.
Right.
But this is not an argument.
This is not a debate.
Right.
It's not about that.
When you ask for feedback, you have to accept it, right?
You say thank you.
You may not fully agree with the feedback, but it doesn't matter.
You ask them for their feedback, so take it on board.
And the chances are there is at least some truth in that feedback.
You know, in the past I had situations when I would ask people for feedback and they would give it
to me.
And it's not easy.
It's not easy to listen to feedback, especially when you did very well and everyone keeps coming up
to you.
Hey, can we take a picture?
Wow, amazing presentation.
I loved X, Y and Z.
And then you meet someone, right, who's maybe a bit more critical and you ask them, Hey, John,
I'm actually curious.
You know, I have a feeling you can give me some really constructive feedback.
What are some of the things you didn't like?
What do you think I could improve on?
Right.
And then that person starts listing various things.
Wow, it's hard a little bit, right?
It feels like mosquito's just all over you, right?
It's a weird feeling, but you have to lean into it, realizing that this is the only way to grow.
If everyone tells you that you are amazing, you don't even know what you have to work on, right?
So for example, I'm not a native English speaker, so in the past I used to make a lot of mistakes
with my pronunciation.
But sadly, most people would never correct me.
Most people would never tell me, Hey, man, you know, you speak really good English, but there's
this one word.
You keep saying that in a wrong way, right?
No one would ever want to tell me that.
So I had situations when even in a business situation, I would say instead of determine, I would say
that they're mine, right?
I wouldn't say, hey, we have to we have to determine what is the best next step.
I'll say, Hey, everyone, we have to determine what is the next best step.
And nobody would correct me, right?
Or I used to say, computer lab, let's go to the computer lab.
And then eventually, after many years, some people told me, well, it's actually computer lab, not
computer lab.
Right.
So there are lots of examples.
You know, I used to make a lot of mistakes and guess what?
Probably I still make mistakes recently.
Actually, maybe one or two years ago, someone told me, Hey, man, I noticed that in your videos
you keep saying, enter, enter wine.
And the way you say it is intertwined, right?
Intertwined.
Two things I used to say Enter wine, but nobody ever told me until that person had enough courage to
say, Listen, hey, your English is great, but you make that mistake.
Thanks to that, I could correct it.
So again, look for feedback, accept feedback with an open mind because it's going to make you a better
presenter.

--- Presenting is a Team Sport ---

There was one thing that you definitely shouldn't forget about, and it's saying thank you to the organizer,
to the host, to whoever contributed to to your presentation, right?
To the success of your presentation.
And never ceases to amaze me how many people forget about it, right?
They delivered the presentation and then they just walk away and they don't say thank you to anybody.
And I feel like a somebody who is a true professional, confident, yet humble.
It is important to always express appreciation and you can do it from the stage, right?
For example, if somebody really helped you at the end of your presentation, you could say something
lines, by the way, huge round of applause for the organizer and then person X and person Y and person
Z, because without those people, we wouldn't be able to make it happen.
Right.
It's amazing.
You know, acknowledging people in public is always great, especially when they deserve it.
Now, in some situations, you may not want to do it in public, right?
You may want to finish your presentation in a different way, but make sure that you always say thank
you in person.
Right, rather than just walk away from that presentation, forgetting about everything.
Ask yourself, you know, take a second to ask yourself, okay, what are the people I appreciate for
helping me with this?
What are the people that actually put a lot of effort into making this a reality that we may not be
acknowledging the sound people over there.
Right.
People who helped you to set up the slides, the host, the person who introduce you, the overall host
of the entire event, if it's in company presentation, well, you can say thank you, first of all,
to people who attended.
Hey, thank you so much for attending.
I appreciate you.
You know, you could be doing a lot of different things, so I appreciate your time.
Thank you so much.
Hey, Joanna, thank you for hosting.
You are great.
Thank you so much.
It is really important because, you know, the chances are considering that you are watching this course,
obviously you want to become a better presenter.
But that also tells me that deep inside you want to become a better leader.
Right.
Because you wouldn't be presenting if you are not a leader, you are already a leader and you want to
become a better leader.
That's what presenting is all about.
When you really think about it.
When you talk to many people at once, you become a leader.
That's it, you become a leader.
So if you want to be a true leader, well, you have to express appreciation for people that you are
leading.
So keep it in mind.

--- Mistake Most People Make ---

Always, absolutely always recognize your biggest supporters.
And your biggest supporters are the people who will stick around after your presentation, whether it's
in your company or even on a Zoom call.
You know, when you finish the zoom call, people start leaving and some people stick around or out
of conference, people who come up to you.
Right.
These are your biggest supporters.
These are your fans, essentially.
I know it may sound weird to say that, but a lot of those people are literally your fans and you have
to give them the appreciation they deserve.
You have to give them your time.
And it never ceases to amaze me when speakers finish their presentations and they just walk away.
Right.
People want to take a picture or they want to ask a question.
And some speakers say, well, I don't have much time.
Okay, quickly, let me.
Okay, cool.
Or they just keep walking and answering questions really quickly while they are walking.
Now, of course, I understand there are exceptions.
If you are a busy CEO and there is another really important meeting you have to attend and you don't
have the time, of course you can't stick around and answer all the questions.
But if that's the case, you may want to tell people, Look, I really appreciate you.
I'd love to answer all the questions, but frankly, I have something in my calendar and I just have
to go right now.
Otherwise, I'm going to be like, I'm really sorry, but I would love to talk to you, right?
At least give them some type of explanation.
But ideally, unless you have something extremely origin happening after give people who come up to
you as much time as they need, as seriously as much time as they need, you know, even if it means
that somebody comes up to you and asks you two or three different questions, you may be thinking,
come on, that's a little bit too much.
I can ask you one question, but three questions.
I mean, that's going overboard.
But you know what?
The chances are that person is your biggest supporter.
So take your time.
You know, it may not mean a lot to you, but it means a lot to them.
And I feel like very often we tend to forget about it.
And myself, I had situations many times when I would present on a stage and then somebody walks up
to me and I would take the time to talk to them and I would actually engage fully.
I would be fully present and I would answer their questions and give them recommendations.
And if they wanted to picture, I would say, sure, let's do it.
And let's say I see that the picture didn't didn't look very nice.
I would say, let's take another one.
This picture wasn't that good.
Let's take a different angle.
Right.
And those people are appreciated so much, they would often tell me, wow, you're such a cool guy.
Like, you know, a lot of speakers.
They just kind of they try to brush me off, but but you actually gave me your time.
And I had situations when after months or years, people would tell me, you know what, you actually
changed something in my life because that that conversation we had, it triggered something and it got
me thinking.
And that became like this, this domino effect in my life, where where you push me into the right direction.
But for me, it was just 2 minutes or 5 minutes.
Right?
What is that?
You know, a couple of minutes of my time.
It's nothing.
Right?
But for that person, it meant a lot.
So the way I like to approach it always is to put myself in their shoes and imagine that I talk to one
of my heroes.
Right.
Because again, often we underestimate ourselves.
So we don't realize how important it is for other people to talk to us.
We think, well, but I'm I'm not that good.
I'm not famous.
Why would people want to talk to me?
I'm just a regular human being, right?
So that's why you kind of brush everything off.
But what I like to do is I like to put myself in their shoes and imagine, okay, let's say that Tony
Robbins is over there.
And I used to listen to Tony Robbins when I was a teenager.
Right.
So clearly he's one of my heroes.
Right.
He put me on the right path back in the day when I struggled with anxiety issues, with limiting beliefs.
So Tony Robbins will always be somewhat of a mentor to me, right?
So if I saw Tony Robbins, I would love to have that interaction and even a couple of minutes with him,
one on one would mean a lot to me.
And the same thing applies to Brian Tracy and people like that.
So again, always put yourself in their shoes, give them the time they deserve.
And the chances are, you know, these are your biggest fans, these are our biggest supporters.
And when you give them that time, they're going to become even bigger supporters and in a way, evangelists
for whatever it is that you do, whether it's externally or whether it's within your company.
That's how you create your biggest allies.

--- EXTRA Video: Becoming a Conference Ninja ---

Let's talk about becoming a conference ninja.
Now, what do I mean by this?
Well, in the other video I was talking about your first speaking gigs, how to make it happen.
I believe that you got to utilize all types of events and conferences to get on the radar of the potential
organizers so they can invite you to their stages.
Now, how do you do it?
Well, most people, when I go to a conference, they simply what they are very passive.
They talk to a few people right during the networking event, but then they just sit in their chairs
and they watch the speakers and that's all they do.
You don't want to be that person.
You want to be proactive.
You want to ask yourself, How can I leverage this event to create opportunities for myself for the
future?
Right.
Always ask yourself that question.
So it could be something as simple as, for example, documenting the conference.
So as you are there snap pictures, make some videos and then be active on social media, use all the
right official hashtags and let people know how much you enjoy the conference and why you enjoyed it
and make sure that you take some selfies or some pictures where your face is visible.
Because what's going to happen is that after the conference, many organizers will be curious and they
will be checking who is active on social media.
We check in all of the pictures under their hashtag, and when they start seeing your face all over
the place, they'll be wondering who is that person?
This is interesting.
This person is really promoting us in a very powerful way.
So now you're on the radar.
So when you meet them again or when you send them your email application, whatever it is, it's more
likely that you will already be the radar that they'll be thinking, Oh, I think I know this person.
Yeah.
This is the guy who kept posting pictures on Instagram and kept talking good things about our conference.
Maybe you should talk to him or her, right?
Another thing you should do is you should do your best to get to know conference organizers.
And this could be much easier done than you may think, because what happens is when you go to the conference,
usually speakers get all the fame right at the conference.
Everyone wants to talk to the speakers.
They always come up and ask for pictures and want to have a conversation, ask questions, but very
few people actually pay any attention to the organizers.
So you've got to use it to your advantage, right?
I mean, if nobody is paying attention to the organizers, clearly it's easier for you to get to them
than to get the speakers and not benefit of establishing those relationships with organizers and emcees
as well.
Because when you talk to the conference host, that can also be a powerful thing, is that whenever
you want to meet any of the speakers, now you have somebody who can produce you, right?
I mean, if everybody is talking to all of those famous speakers out there and you take the time to
really build a strong connection with the organizer or with the host, and then later on you can simply
say, hey, you know what, I would love to meet some interesting people here.
Profile X, Y and Z.
Who do you believe I should meet?
Guess what?
They're going to introduce you to those people.
What's more powerful than a personal introduction?
Right?
You can come up to somebody of a very high status.
You can introduce yourself.
But if somebody introduces you, them, that's a totally different ballgame.
So utilize this approach.
You know, go to conferences as a ninja.
Don't just go there as a as a sheep, right?
Just sitting there and listening and watching and then going back home, but make the most of it.
Another thing I want to mention is that when you go to a conference and you want to build connections
with speakers and the conference is not being filmed, one thing you do is you can make videos yourself.
You can even just use your phone and make a few high quality clips of speakers and of the host.
And then it's very easy for you to connect with them because afterwards you can simply walk up to them
or send them an email and tell them, Hey, you know what, I actually felt some of your speech.
I know that they were not officially filming it, and I figured that you may enjoy having a clip like
this.
You can use it on your social media, you can use it on your website.
It's going to be for your branding.
I would like to give it to you because what's going to happen?
Bam, reciprocity.
If somebody did it to me.
I got to tell you, there are situations I'm talking about it in the other video that I wouldn't film
my own speech.
Right.
I would just simply go and then I would regret it tremendously.
I should.
Why didn't I film it if somebody walked up to me and told me?
And this, by the way, happened.
This happens several times when somebody walks up to me and tells me, Hey, Jimmy, I just want to
talk to you.
Great speech bomb.
I've been watching your videos, by the way, I a part of your speech.
How can I give it to you?
And then they send me the link to Dropbox and I download high quality video.
You know, what's the next thing I do?
I start pondering how the hell can I help that person?
Like I make it my mission to help that person.
I try to figure out a way.
Of course I'm not going to give them money for it because that's not of a good taste.
But I'm trying to figure out, maybe there is somebody you want to meet, maybe there is some advice
you need.
You want one of my courses, I'll give it to you.
I just want to give something to them because of that reciprocity.
So be clever when you go to conferences, be clever and in no time you'll be getting on those stages.

--- How To Stop Constantly Seek Approval and Validation ---

Let's talk about seeking approval and validation.
Now, the reality is that the more you seek it, the less you.
And when you walk through life constantly trying to get that approval and validation of other people,
when you constantly want to be liked by everyone, the reality is that you are kind of like the dog
chasing its own tail.
You may have a perception that you are getting closer to it, but you just keep running in circles and
you will never get it.
And when you look at people that you know in your life who are really confident, who believe in themselves,
who get a lot of approval and validation and respect of other people, these are usually people who
don't even want to get it.
They don't really care.
And paradoxically, because they don't care, they get it the most.
Now, usually in life we think that if we want something, we really have to work, we really have to
go after it.
And look, this is the case in so many different situations, but not when it comes to getting approval
and validation.
So if you want to get that, if you want people to like you, if you want people to respect you, well,
you have to respect yourself.
And part of respecting yourself is to be authentically you.
You got to be authentically you, unapologetically you.
And everyone is different.
And this is the beautiful thing about this planet that everyone is so different.
But for whatever reason, we often try to fit in.
You meet a group of people and you want them to like you, right?
As you are meeting new people, you are having this internal dialogue.
What if they will reject me?
What if they will not like me?
What can I say?
So they accept me, what can I say?
So that person likes me.
But every time you do it, it takes a lot of energy.
It just takes so much energy because you are not being yourself.
You are just putting some fake mask on you because you want to pretend that you are somebody that you
are not.
And the problem happens that sure, it may work from time to time.
You may pretend that you are someone else and you can keep adjusting your behavior and how you talk
and who you are in certain situations.
But eventually people will find out that this is not real.
You know, if you meet a couple of different people who have different beliefs and then you talk to
one of them and you agree with them, and then you talk to another person who has radically different
beliefs and you also agree with them.
People will find out eventually that you are like a flag on a wind.
You don't have your own opinion, you are not authentic, you are afraid to be yourself.
And no one likes people like this.
No one respects people like this.
And we think about, would you respect someone who says certain things just to be liked by you?
It seems so needy.
It's as if they need your approval so much that they are willing to compromise on who they are.
You may be wondering, okay, Jimmy, all of this makes sense, but how do I actually stop seeking approval
and validation?
How I can change that behavior?
So I need to give you a little asterisks, a little disclaimer.
The reality is that you will never fully get rid of that validation.
Second behavior.
We are just human, right?
We are just human.
And it's normal that when you wake up in the morning and you open your wardrobe, well, you want to
dress up in a nice way.
You want to dress up that's congruent to who you are.
But also you want to show certain things.
You buy a fancy car not just because you enjoy driving it, but somewhere in your subconscious.
You know that you will look like a higher status person, right?
So let's just agree that as humans we all seek validation and approval to some extent.
And I believe that of course it's healthy to some extent, because otherwise, if nobody cared what
anybody else thinks about them, our society would just become one big jungle.
We would we would all just go crazy, right?
So of course, yes, we need some of that.
But again, the problem happens when you walk for life and constantly you are just wondering, what
are those people thinking about me?
You are about to present on a mini stage or maybe speak up during a team meeting, and rather than trying
to provide value and rather than trying to do your best because you want to do your best, you are just
thinking about not failing in the eyes of others, right?
You are just trying not to be rejected by others.
When you want to talk to a stranger, you are just worried.
What can you say?
So they will like you.
That's a problem.
And a lot of people struggle with this and I used to struggle with this.
So one of the best first experiments that you can do and I'm going to do it with you right now, it's
very simple, but but it's powerful is to imagine yourself walking into a shopping mall.
Imagine that me and you, we walk together for a very busy shopping mall.
Now, I put you on a very nice couch.
I give you some coffee or some tea, and I bring 100 different people.
And each one of those people will come to you and have a 10/2 interaction with you.
That's it.
10 seconds.
Hey, what's up?
What's your name?
Where do you come from?
Cool.
That's it.
10 seconds.
And you will have interactions with 100 people.
Now, afterwards, I'm going to give them an anonymous questionnaire that basically ask.
STEM.
How would you rate this person from 1 to 10?
Do you like them?
Do you dislike them?
Do you find that person annoying?
Do you find this person irritating?
And the interesting thing is that, yes, of course, a lot of people will say, I don't really know.
You know, I can't say it was just 10 seconds.
Some people will like you for no reason.
They just like you.
They like your smile.
They like your vibe.
They like the energy.
Maybe they like your handshake.
I don't know, but they like you.
But here's the thing.
Some of those people will not like you, and some of them may even hate you.
They may find you irritating.
They may find you annoying for whatever reason.
There may not be any reason.
At least they consciously don't understand the reasons.
But hey, maybe you remind them of that teacher they used to have.
That used to be really terrible.
Terrible teacher.
Maybe you remind them of of their ex.
I don't know.
Could be anything.
And they can't even pinpoint why they don't like you.
But after those 10 seconds, they just figure, you know what, I don't know why I don't like this person.
I wouldn't want to be around this person.
So when you really think about it and you know that this is true because this works both ways, I'm
sure you had situations in your life and you still have situations when you meet different people and
you kick it off with some of them.
You meet some people and you feel this amazing energy right away and then you meet others and you just
dislike them and you don't really know why.
Right.
You meet a group of people and you don't like that one person and you don't know why this happens to
all of us.
We are just human.
And I feel like the sooner you wrap your head around it and realize that no matter who you are, there
will be always people who will dislike you.
This will give you a lot of freedom.
In reality, you could take all of your possessions, all of your money and material things, and you
could give it away, give it away to charities, and it could travel to Congo or you could travel to
some other place and build a school and help poor kids and do all of that and be selfless.
Never think about yourself, help everyone else.
Still, there will be some people who will claim that you are doing it for fame.
You are doing it for your ego, for some legacy.
Maybe you are making money on the side and no one knows.
People figure out something and there will be people who will not like you crazy, right?
But that's how the world operates.
You could be a saint and there will be people who will not like who you are and some people will still
hate you.
This is the reality and you have to accept it.
And the sooner you are accepted, the sooner you will get that freedom of knowing that the best way
to live your life is just to truthfully, authentically be who you are.
Now, let me tell you why.
And this is really important.
You want to be who you are authentically, unapologetically, because when you do that, you attract
the right people to you.
Now, think about it.
If if you are like a flag on a wind, going left and right, moving all the time, depending how you
deal with it, talk to one person.
You try to be like that by that person.
You talk to another person.
You want to be liked by that person.
If you are like this, well, you will never have the people in your circle that you really want to
be around.
You will never accomplish that.
But when you are unapologetically yourself, if you know who you are, you know what you believe in.
You know your value system, your belief system, and you stick to who you are.
Sure, some people won't like you, but you will attract people who are just like you.
You will attract like minded individuals, and that's how you will form incredible bonds.
So let me give you a very personal example, and I feel like you will find it valuable, even if you
cannot resonate with my viewpoint.
I feel like you will be able to identify similar situations in your life.
So I don't eat meat.
I'm meat free and I haven't eaten meat for most, not most of my life, actually more than half of my
life to be more accurate.
So when I was 12, 13 years old, I realized at some point out of nowhere that something's wrong in
the world.
Right?
I'm going to try to make this story super short.
But I used to love minced meat.
And at some point I realized, hold on a second, they keep advertising it with the face of a happy
pig or a happy cow.
But why would the pig be happy if it's stuck in this little box?
And when I went down that rabbit hole, I realized, whoa, whoa, whoa, there is something seriously
wrong with this.
So I stopped eating meat at some point.
Now, for the record, I went back to eating chicken a couple of times, but for the last six, seven
years, I haven't touched meat.
All right.
Now, back in the day when I was a teenager, I would meet different people.
And, you know, you go for dinners, you go for lunches, and people ask you, hey, why don't you
eat that beef burger?
Why don't you try that chicken?
And back then, I was afraid to tell them the truth.
So I would simply say something to the lines of, Oh, I just don't like the taste of it, or I'm not
that hungry.
I would invent something because I didn't want to have that conflict because I knew that the moment
and by the way, that was a long time ago.
Right?
So nowadays if you say you're a vegetarian, people kind of take it.
Ah, okay, cool.
You're one of them.
No problem.
Back then, this wasn't normal.
They're not too many people who were vegetarians.
So I knew that if I say to someone, Yeah, I don't eat meat because I hate the cruelty that's happening
in all those factories.
I'm going to have a conversation that I don't want to have.
I'm going to have to face that person and there will be some type of discussion and I don't want to
do it.
So I was like this obviously over the years of personal development and finding out who I really am
and figuring out my value belief system and just become a confident person who believes in himself,
I started embracing a completely different approach.
So nowadays I just try to be unapologetically authentic.
If you ask me about my beliefs, I'm going to tell you and you may disagree, but hey, we can agree
to disagree.
So nowadays when I go for dinners, lunches with different people, when they ask me, Hey, why don't
you eat meat?
I tell them, Hey, I don't eat meat because I don't like the cruelty that's happening in the factories.
Now, if they ask me for the details, I typically say something.
The lines of, Look, I'm happy to tell you the details, but probably not right now.
Since you are eating, you probably don't want to hear about it.
But hey, if you want, we can talk about it later on.
Nowadays, I don't care if somebody disagrees with this.
If they ask me a question, if they want to know, I'm going to tell them.
Even if there is a food table full of people who eat meat and who disagree with me, if they ask me,
I'm going to tell them because I would rather have people not like me or not accept me, but still be
truthful to myself.
And the interesting thing is that ever since I became really authentic, really vulnerable, really
honest, I just attract the right types of people into my life.
And that's what you want to do.
You don't want to have a bunch of people in your life that you call friends, but, you know, deep
inside that they are not real, real friends because they don't really know who you are.
You want to have people who know who you are and they accept you for who you are.
And you may have disagreements, you may have different belief systems, but that's okay because you
agree to disagree.
But it all comes down to this concept of being unapologetically you.
So think about all of this in the context of your own life.
Really do that thought experiment.
I presented it to you.
Imagine that you literally give away all your money, everything you have, and you help poor kids and
you do all of that.
People still wouldn't accept you just wrap your head around it and realize that seeking approval and
validation, going through life, constantly trying to be liked by other people is a waste of your life.
And honestly, your life is ending one minute at a time, literally one minute at a time.
We are not getting younger, right?
So why would you waste your life, your valuable time on this planet trying to be liked by people who,
you know what, they are actually so busy with their own problems that they don't think about you as
much as you think they do.
A lot of people have this misconception that everyone is judging them, that as they walk through life,
everyone is looking at them thinking, Oh, look at that person, huh?
This person is not good at this.
Or This person said that this sound is really dumb.
People are not doing this.
People are too busy thinking about themselves.
In fact, let me tell you this most of the world is insecure when you really think about it.
Most people have some type of actually, I would say all people have some type of insecurities.
So as you walk through life and you are looking for that validation and approval, looking around thinking,
Whoa, please, can you accept me, please?
Can you accept me?
What can I say?
So you like me as you are doing this, a lot of those other people are doing the same thing.
It's like one does this big charade where everyone is just playing this act, everyone is just acting,
trying to be someone that they are not.
Why don't just be yourself and embrace who you are?
Think about it in the context of your life.
And I'm going to see you in the next video.

--- The True Importance of Competence ---

Let me tell you about something that a lot of people don't want to hear about.
Namely, a lot of your confidence comes from your competence.
Now, a lot of people like to believe that if they just do affirmations, if they just visualize that
they are better and bigger and stronger and smarter.
That's going to help now.
It will help to some extent.
But if you don't develop your competence, if you don't develop yourself as a human being, it's going
to be very hard for you to be confident, truly confident.
Let me give you a quick example.
So as I travel the world, I go to all types of beaches, some of them more dangerous than others.
And I often had situations when I didn't want to get into the water because I could identify the rip
currents.
I knew that the sea or the ocean was too rough.
There was no lifeguard.
It was just too dangerous to get in.
And I used to swim professionally.
I mean, it was a long time ago back in high school, but I used to be a competitive swimmer and I still
swim really well.
And I often saw people who couldn't swim properly and they would still get into the water.
Right.
They just figured, hey, why not?
Nothing's going to happen.
It's okay.
I just want to have some fun.
Now, is this confidence or is it being irresponsible?
Well, in my book, it's being irresponsible because, sure, they may think that they are confident,
but they don't know how to swim.
They don't have the competence.
And without competence, if they get caught in the rip current, that's it.
It could be over.
Right?
So in life, you don't just want to have this empty confidence.
You want to keep developing your competence in different areas.
And this is so important to remember now when you are becoming better, when you are developing yourself
in various realms, you also trust yourself more.
You value yourself more because you see your own progress.
You see that you are a capable individual who is getting better and better and better, and that in
itself develops your confidence.
When you look in the mirror, you know that yesterday you were here and now you are here, and you see
that you keep improving, you keep growing.
Again, a lot of people don't want to hear this.
A lot of people sadly just want to focus on little techniques and little tools and hacks, but they
don't work on their core.
So what I want you to be doing here is, of course, I want you to implement all the strategies, all
the tools, all the little hacks.
But most importantly, I want you to keep working on yourself, to keep developing your core, your
foundation as a human being.
Every day, ask yourself, what can I do today to get better, to become the best version of myself
and just keep doing it consistently?
And it could be all types of things.
From becoming better in your verbal communication, learning vocabulary, becoming better at presenting
your ideas and storytelling, developing yourself physically, learning how to manage your emotions,
improving your knowledge.
So when you talk to people, you actually have things to talk about.
Nothing is less attractive than meeting somebody who is really confident on the outside, but when you
start talking to them, you see that there is no depth.
You want to talk to them about something interesting.
You want to have a good, deep conversation and you just can't get there.
They keep staying on the surface.
You don't want to be that person.
You want to be the type of person that is confident, believes in themselves, but at the same time
can go out there into the world and handle themselves properly.
So you want to keep working on that foundation now?
It's a very simple video, but I needed to make it because it seems to me that a lot of people out there
in the world want to find some shortcuts.
They just focus on the hacks, not realizing that if they want to become truly, truly confident, they
have to keep developing that competence.
Let me know what you think about this, and I'm going to see you in the next video.

--- The Truth About Haters ---

Let me ask you something.
Have you ever met a hater that's doing better than you?
Probably not.
Right.
And this is something that I've noticed over the years.
And obviously, like anyone who is in the public eye is anyone who produces content.
I get some haters from time to time and pretty much every single person in the world, no matter who
you are and what you do.
At some point you will get some hate, right?
You will get some heat.
You'll get some people who don't like who you are and what you do, and they really want to let you
know about it.
Now, the thing about haters is that they don't matter.
They don't matter.
There's a big difference between constructive criticism, someone who's actually trying to help you,
trying to give you some feedback that that may be valuable to you and someone who is just a hater.
And there is there is a distinction you have to make, right?
If someone is actually trying to help you, someone's trying to tell you, hey, listen, I would like
to give you some feedback.
I think you could change this or that.
Even though it may feel uncomfortable to get that feedback, you should welcome it because that person
is doing you a favor.
In the short term, it may feel uncomfortable, but in the long term, that person or group of people
is allowing you to improve yourself.
Having said that, there are also haters.
There are people out there who don't care about you improving yourself.
The only thing they want is they want to bash you.
They want to bash you because they don't like who you are.
They don't like what you represent.
They don't like what you say, what you do, and they want to let you and everyone else know that they
don't agree with you, that they don't like you.
So again, there's a big difference now when someone actually hating on you, when someone doesn't care
about giving you feedback, someone doesn't care about you who you are, they just want to hate on you.
You have to realize that they really don't matter and you shouldn't give them your mental space.
Now, the reason I talk about it is because a lot of people tell me that they struggle with haters.
They tell me that, Oh, there's that person who keeps making those bad comments underneath my posts,
or there is someone who doesn't like me.
There is somebody who talks behind my back, right?
So if you are one of those people and the chances are you are right, because again, most of us, if
not all of us, experience this at some point, then you have to remember that, as I said at the very
beginning, you know, it's very hard to find a hater who was doing better than you.
Now, the reality is that most haters don't actually hate you.
They they usually hate themselves for not being the person that they actually want to be.
So often what happens is when you live your life, when you do your thing, those people, because things
are not working out for them, they have a lot of time on their hands.
And with all of that free time, it's very easy to look around and just point your fingers and say,
Hey, I don't like you, I don't like you, I don't what you are doing.
I don't like what you are doing.
You know, people who are busy doing epic stuff don't have the time to hate.
Oh, think about all the successful people that, you know, like, really think about the most successful
people that, you know.
Do they have the time to hate on others?
Do they have the time to scroll through Instagram or Facebook feed or YouTube and post really negative
comments?
Do they have the time to talk about somebody behind their back?
Do they have the time to send really bad messages, really negative messages to other people?
No, they don't have the time for that because they're too busy living their epic lives.
They are too busy going after their vision.
And I feel like it is important to understand this and to wrap our heads around it, because the moment
you do it, that's when you start depriving haters of their power over you.
The worst thing you can do is to give that hater more power by preoccupying yourself about what they
are talking about, what they are thinking about.
You don't give them any of that power.
Now let me give you a little thought experiment.
Imagine that right now there are 100 different people who are gathering in a conference room, maybe
in Marriott Hotel, purely to talk negatively about you.
You mentioned that this is happening now.
My question is, if you didn't find out about that conference that's literally solely designed to talk
-- about you, would it affect you?
Would it affect you in a negative way?
The answer is obvious.
It wouldn't.
Why?
Because you wouldn't even know about it.
If someone is talking negatively about you behind your back but you don't know about it, it cannot
affect you negatively.
It's not even in your conscious awareness.
You don't even know it's happening.
You are focusing on living your best life.
But the moment you find out what somebody tells you, Hey, there is this conference and they are meeting
there just to talk negatively about you as you start giving that situation your energy and you start
digging in and trying to figure out, Oh, wow, really what's happening in there?
And you start gaining more and more information and you start hearing what those people are saying about
you.
Now it's affecting you.
Now, I know this is an extreme example, but my point is very simple.
When something is not in your conscious awareness, it cannot possibly affect you.
It just can't.
So never, ever give.
Is your energy, right?
Keep that energy for more important things.
Use that energy doing things that make you and people around you happy.
Don't give them any of that energy.
So let me give you my example.
Now, I get a lot of messages, lots of emails, comments, reviews of my courses and also on social
media.
And I don't go through all of them myself.
I have an assistant that filters everything because guess what?
I don't want to see all the negative stuff.
I don't want to see it.
I always accept constructive criticism.
You know, whenever I get a message from someone who says, you know, I really enjoy this course,
but I feel like you could improve X, Y and Z if it's constructive.
I want to read it.
My assistants know it.
They know that I want to read it.
In fact, I have a spreadsheet where we add those comments.
We always say thank you to that person.
We add those comments in there, and based on those recommendations, we create more content, right?
So for example, I'm here filming bonus material and I use those comments to make more content.
So I'm always really grateful for those, but I don't want to be reading hateful comments.
If someone tells me underneath a YouTube video or Instagram that they don't like me for whatever reason,
or they just go crazy.
I don't use my energy and my time for that.
I would rather take my energy and use it to build incredible content for people that can actually benefit
from it.
Right now, of course, this is just my example as a content creator, and you may not resonate fully
with this because maybe you don't create any content.
But my point is, again, you don't want to give haters any energy.
The best way to deprive them of their power is, first of all, to remind yourself that they don't matter.
They usually don't hate you.
They they typically hate themselves or this situation, or they are just angry at the world.
That's what often happens.
People, they just hate the world and they hate themselves for whatever reason.
And rather than, you know, feeling bad about them hating you have some compassion and realize, you
know what, I'm not going to engage with that person, but I feel compassion.
That person must have a really terrible life.
I mean, if he or she can find a time to hate on me or anybody else, clearly things are not working
out for them.
Feel some compassion, but don't give them any energy.
Move on.
Focus on what's working for you.
Focus all that positive energy on building a better life for yourself.
So if you've been experiencing some hate for people, I hope that this video is helpful to let me know.
And I'm going to see you in the next one.

--- The True Power of Reframing ---

Have you ever had a situation when something bad happened to you and somebody said, Hey, don't worry
about it, one day you will laugh about it now.
We humans tend to literally wait for that one day.
We don't laugh about negative situations in the moment, right in the moment, things feel terrible.
They feel insurmountable.
They fuel us with anxiety and fear and anger.
But often we realize that those people, whoever it is, that that said to us that one day we will laugh
about the situation was correct because a couple of years passed by and as you look back, you just
treat it as a fun story, as a life experience that taught you something.
So here is the thing.
In life we often think that we need to get what we want in order to live the life that we want to live.
And yes, it is true to some extent, to a very high extent.
What we don't realize is that sometimes life gives us not something that we want, but something that
we need.
And what we need is not always what we want.
Think about it.
What we need is not always what we want.
Now, when I look back at my life, some of the most important situations were not easy in that particular
moment, right?
I had all types of different challenges and as I was experiencing them, it felt terrible.
It felt like the world was ending for me, but I could connect the dots only afterwards, as Steve Jobs
used to say.
Right.
He used to say that you can only connect the dots looking with hindsight.
Well, this is the reality.
Now, I know that in the moment when something bad happens, it is not easy to reframe.
But Stoics always say that things are not inherently good or bad.
They just are.
It's always about your own interpretation of the situation, right?
It's always about your interpretation of the situation.
And recently I've been reflecting on this.
You know, I have this really cool journal where I write down all types of stories from my life.
I think right now I have over 600 different stories.
These are private stories.
You know, I don't really share most of them with anybody.
I just write things down when something really interesting happens to me, whether good or bad, I just
write it down and have a ton of those stories in there.
And when I was going through them, I realized that a lot of those stories now fuel me with a lot of
positive energy.
I feel so happy that those situations happen to me, even though a lot of them were challenges right
back in the day, I didn't perceive them as fun stories.
I perceived them as indescribable challenges.
But now, with this hindsight window, I can look back and I can say to myself, Wow, it's so awesome
that had happened.
I have such a cool story now.
I learned so much from that experience.
So what I'm trying to say is that you never have really good stories when everything goes well.
I mean, imagine going to a pub with a bunch of friends and one of them tells you a story.
Hey, I went on holiday to Greece.
It was incredible.
We got this amazing.
Vlad was better than expected when we rented the car.
We got a free upgrade.
All the food was incredible.
Wow.
The weather was just perfect.
We met those incredible people there and it goes on and on and on and everything seems perfect.
Do you want to listen to a story like this?
Would you want to watch a movie like this?
Like, seriously, would you want to watch a movie where everything is perfect?
Probably not.
Right.
It's boring.
It's boring is like playing a computer game where you have all the hacks and you know that you can never
die.
You can never die.
You can kill all the monsters.
It may be fun for the first ten or 1520 minutes, but eventually you just get bored out of your mind.
So it's interesting how it works.
You know, this is the quality of life, but we all need -- situations in our lives.
Seriously, that's when we learn, that's when we develop the most.
When you look back at your life, I'm sure that you can recall certain situations, stories, challenges
that, you know, back in the day seemed really insurmountable.
It felt like life just slapped you in the face.
Right?
You really dislike that situation.
But now as you look back at that situation, you realize, wow, I learned so much or Wow, that's exactly
what I needed.
Maybe you lost your job just to found your business later on, right?
Maybe somebody broke your heart, but then two years later, you found your soulmate.
So what I'm trying to say and look, I don't want to be mister positive thinker, you know, think positively
all the time.
It's not about that.
It's not about breaking your leg or crashing your car and then jumping from happiness because you have
a story.
I'm not crazy.
It's not about that, but it's about reframing what's happening to you and realizing that life may have
a gift for you that's wrapped in pain.
Sometimes this is what happens.
Life wants to give you a gift, but that gift is so precious.
That is wrapped in pain and well, in order to get to that gift, you have to unwrap all that pain and
really think about it in the context of your life and you will see that this is true.
So typically what I like to do nowadays and look, disclaimer, it's not easy and it doesn't always
work.
And there are situations when I get -- off and there are situations where I it's very hard for me
to reframe.
But typically when something bad happens to me, whatever it is I miss my flight or something gets cancelled
or that that invoice is not paid and the client decided to just just not pay whatever it is.
Right.
I like to say to myself, you know what, one day I'm going to laugh about it.
So why wait till that one day?
Why stress about it now?
Is there something I can do about it now?
If there is something I can do about it, what can I do?
I'll let you ask myself, what can I do specifically?
And then I write it down and then I do it.
What is the first step I can do?
If I worry about something, I feel bad about something.
Is there something I can do?
If there is bad, what can I do?
Then I go and execute it.
If there is nothing I can do, what's the point of worrying?
What is the point of thinking about it?
If I cannot do anything anyway, then me worrying about it is just wasting my valuable time that I could
be using to live the best life I can live right now.
I know it's easy to understand this intellectually.
It's not easy to implement it, but that's why I'm talking to you about it, because I feel like it
is important that we all keep reminding ourselves of this principle.
And, you know, this is pretty much the core of the stoic philosophy.
Again, things are not just inherently good or bad, things just simply are.
And it's about your interpretation of the event, not the event itself.
I hope that this video made you think I think that it was some good food for thought.
Let me know as always and I'm going to see you the next one.

--- Important Mindset Shift to Create More Gratitude that LEADS to Confidence ---

Some of the best things in life are completely free when you think about it.
If you want to breathe in the fresh air, that's free, right?
You can go out there and you can breathe and you don't have to pay for it.
If you want to spend the time with your family members, with your friends, that's completely free.
And these are some of the best times of your life making those memories with your loved ones.
If you want to exercise, it's completely free.
Now, of course, if you want to train certain sport, you may have to pay a membership.
If you want to go to the gym, you have to pay for the entry.
But the reality is that you don't have to pay anything to move your body, to get physical, to to get
on the ground and to do a bunch of push ups or to go for a run.
It's completely free.
Reading books is free.
Now, you may say, Well, but I have to buy them first.
Not necessarily.
There are a lot of free books out there and you can always go to the library.
Now, I could keep going on and on and on, but the point is very simple most things in life are free,
some of the most amazing things are completely free.
And we often tend to forget about it.
We we spend so much time focusing on making money so we can buy more, so we can live more.
Not realizing that actually some of the best things in life are already in front of us.
We just have to reach for them.
And this brings me to another point, and it's about the different currencies that we have in life.
You see, a lot of people think that there's just one currency money, right?
Dollars, euros, yen.
You want to make more and more money so we can get more out of life.
But the reality is that there are other currencies out there that people don't consider.
So one of the currencies is relationships.
As I said before, it's completely free.
You just have to make some effort, be a good person, connect with people.
You can have tremendous relationships without paying for it.
Same thing goes for health, right?
That's another currency.
If you work on your health right now and if you do it consistently well, that's certainly a currency
because it's going to make your life better.
Another currency is the freedom of mobility or any actually any type of freedom.
Right.
Having the freedom to do things, that's certainly a currency.
So, for example, you could look at a really rich banker and say that person is way richer than me,
but that's going to happen only if you take into account just the monetary value.
But if you take into account all the other currencies, yeah, sure.
That person may be richer than you and the dollar terms, but you may have way more time, you may be
more healthy, you may have better, deeper relationships.
So what I'm trying to say here is that rather than always pursuing more and more money for the sake
of having more right, because of the solution of, oh, if I have more money, I'm going to have all
those options and I'm going to be rich.
It's important to realize that there are other currencies out there that we should always spend time
pursuing.
And the tricky thing is that, for example, if you pursue more and more money, even if it doesn't
work for you right now, you can always make more.
You could be broke most of your life.
And then at some point you make a good decision, you start a project, you make a good deal.
You can make a lot of money, but it doesn't work like this.
For example, relationships with your knowledge with health, you can just wake up one day being extremely
unhealthy and decide, You know what, I'm going to change my life and I'm going to get super healthy.
Let's say you're 55 right now.
Can you get more healthy?
Certainly you can.
Can you dramatically change how your body operates?
No.
I mean, there is certain limits.
If you've been neglecting your health for all of your life, then you can't just suddenly wake up and
say, hey, I'm going to change everything.
It's too late.
So when it comes to health, it's one of those currencies that you have to keep working on every single
day.
Every day you make a decision whether you will be healthy or not, whether you will exercise, eat healthy
food or not.
And you have to be consistent.
The same thing goes with relationships.
You can't just wake up one day, you know, after being an -- for your entire life and decide,
you know what, I'm going to build incredible relationships now.
Well, definitely you can't do it and you can try, but it's not going to be that easy.
You won't build those relationships overnight.
So that's why I feel like a lot of people get trapped in this idea that if they have more money, more
and more and more money, all of their problems will be fixed.
But if you ever met some truly rich people, you know very well that not all of them are happy.
Just because you have a lot of money doesn't mean that you don't have any problems.
You know, I personally know a lot of people have a ton of cash, but they have so many other issues.
For example, you know, imagine you have a lot of money, you have a bunch of businesses, but you
are trying to build a family and you can't and you are trying with your spouse and you've been trying
for years and years and you just can't or you made a huge deal.
You just made a ton of cash and then one of your loved ones get some terminal disease.
And yes, you can buy a yacht and you can buy a Ferrari, you can do all of those things.
But you're not really thinking about those things because you're so.
Preoccupied with your loved one having those health issues.
And I could go on and on and on.
Right?
There are so many examples and it's pretty sad to see how many people deferred their happiness.
How many people just focus on making money, just making money as if money will solve every single issue.
Now, is it cool to have money?
Yes, it's great.
It's it's nice to have money.
It definitely makes life easier, but it doesn't cure all of your problems.
And that's why I always tell people that you have to look at life holistically.
And rather than having that illusion that there is just one currency trying to make more dollars, more
euros, more pounds, more yen, more, whatever you want to make sure that you make those other currencies,
you want to make sure that you put equal, if not even more effort into, for example, improving your
health, improving your relationships, working on yourself so you become a smarter individual.
So, you know, more so you become more self aware, you know, embracing your spirituality, embracing
your emotions, learning about yourself, learning about the world.
It's equally important.
So anyway, it's one of those videos that I do hope will give you some good food for thought.
I'm actually very curious to hear what you think, and I'm going to see you in the next one.

--- How To Actually Gain More Courage? ---

Let's talk about courage now.
A lot of people get courage wrong.
A lot of people have a misconception that be encourages is about not feeling any fear.
But this couldn't be further from the truth, right?
Courage is about actually feeling fear.
You experience all of those emotions.
You have the butterflies in your stomach.
You.
You may feel your heart racing.
You may have some doubts in your head.
But you go after it anyway.
Right.
If there is something that you know you have to do, you go after it anyway.
In spite of that fear.
In fact, over the years I've met a ton of high performers in different realms, different areas of
life.
I've been speaking to a ton of different people from professional athletes, you know, fighters, people
who skydive, people who perform on different stages, bestselling authors, comedians, all types of
people.
And each one of them feels fear.
Fear is normal.
Fear is expected.
Fear is actually a healthy mechanism unless you have too much of it and unless you fear things that
are irrational.
But a lot of the fear is actually very useful.
It prevents you from doing really stupid things, right?
Putting putting your hand into boiling water or jumping off a 40 meter bridge just because you feel
like it's going to be fun.
Right?
So fear has some type of purpose in your life.
So again, you don't want to overcome all of your fear necessarily.
You just want to learn how to dance with your fear.
And when you develop courage, you just develop that muscle, quote unquote, that allows you to do
whatever it is that you feel like you have to do or you should be doing in spite of fear.
And the fear will not fully dissipate.
You will still feel it, but you keep dancing with it.
You keep doing whatever it is that you have to do.
So my example, till this day, I have situations when I get into extremely uncomfortable situations
and yes, I do feel some type of fear.
Sometimes I feel a bit of that anxiety building up because I'm in a new situation.
Maybe I don't have the best circumstances.
Perhaps I'm under slept, I'm tired, I'm not in my zone.
And even though I have strategies for engineering the weather state, I just can't feel it.
I just don't feel it.
And in front of me there is a challenge and I know that me embarking on that challenge can dramatically
change my life in a positive way.
Guess what?
I do it.
I don't succumb to that feeling of now, maybe.
Maybe you just you can give up on that.
Maybe you can't tell them that you cannot do it.
Maybe you can fake some stomach issues or something like that.
No, I know what I have to do.
I may feel some fear I'm going to do it anyway.
Now, the more you push yourself like this, the better you become at it.
Because at some point what happens is that you learn.
You learn viscerally and your entire body, not just in your mind, but you feel it in your entire body,
that just because something is scary doesn't mean that you cannot do it.
You know, a lot of people feel like just because they feel a certain way, that has to become their
reality.
But this couldn't be further from the truth.
For example, just because you don't feel ready doesn't mean that you are not ready.
A lot of people, for example, before getting on a stage, don't feel ready.
They just don't feel ready.
They want to practice more and more, but it doesn't mean that they are not ready.
They've been ready for a long time, but because they always want to deliver as much value as possible,
well, they don't feel ready, but then they get on that stage.
They overdeliver, they kill it.
People get a ton of value from it.
The same thing applies to publishing books.
When you talk to authors, a lot of them will tell you that before publishing a book, they don't feel
ready.
They feel the fear, they feel some anxiety.
They they have the internal dialogue, I think is really good.
But what if people don't like it?
What if I release this book and it gets really bad reviews?
They have that.
But rather than allowing that feeling to stop them, to hold them back, they decide, you know what
that said, I just have to go after it.
This is more important that that little fear that I'm experiencing, bam, they push through, they
go after it, they release that book.
Fear is still there.
That's fine.
You dance with it, you go after it.
When you talk to different sports figures, do you think they don't experience fear?
Of course they do.
They experience fear.
Anxiety and sometimes self-doubt creep in before they enter that big game or before they go to Olympics
or any other championships.
They feel that they can feel it in their stomachs, but they know it's normal and they decide to dance
with it.
They go after it.
That's what courage is.
Courage is not about not having any fear.
It's about dancing with your fears and going after whatever it is that you want to do anyway.
So how do you develop it?
Well, you develop it by doing right.
You can just watch videos like this one and just do thought experiments and close your eyes and visualize
not by the way visualization works.
Okay.
Visualization is a.
But you can't you can't gain courage just by visualizing.
It's just one element of it.
But the most important thing is to consistently push your comfort zone.
Now, that's why we have comfort zone challenges, right?
Comfort zone challenges are extremely powerful, but you have to do things that scare you on a consistent
basis.
Some people say you have to do something that scares you every single day.
Right.
A lot of motivational speakers say a lot of motivational speakers like to say that every single day
you have to do something that scares you.
Now, this would be incredible, but I'm a little bit more realistic now.
I know that statistically some of you, a percentage of you would be able to do something that scares
you every single day.
But the vast majority of people, like literally more than 99% of people want to do it.
It's not sustainable because whenever you do something that scares you, yes, afterwards you feel incredible.
But it also takes a lot of energy, right.
If you've ever jumped from a bridge or you skydive or you got on a big stage or you were pitching a
group of investors, we did anything that is really scary, you know, that it takes a lot of energy.
It takes a lot of energy.
So I feel like for most people it's just not sustainable to try to do it every day.
You will burn out eventually and most people will just stop doing it.
So what I believe in is that it's much better to pre schedule those moments of fear in advance.
You don't need to do it every single day.
You want to have some time where you can wake up and relax.
You know, I, I don't really like this notion of every single day you have to push yourself.
You have to work 17 hours and you don't need sleep and you've got to keep going after it.
I don't really like that idea.
I think that you need some time or you can actually just relax and focus on other things, right?
But I do believe in pre scheduling moments of fear we can actually push your comfort zone again.
Part of it is the comfort zone challenges I'm giving you, but I also encourage you to think about things
that scare you.
Right?
Things that feel uncomfortable, but actions and activities that could really help you in your life,
on your journey, and then commit to doing those things.
For example, a couple of years ago, I really wanted to skydive.
I just felt like if I jump off a plane, it's going to be a great metaphor for life because I knew it's
going to be scary.
But I also felt that it's going to be one of those incredible experience that will fuel me with courage.
I just felt that.
So I decided, okay, I'm going to skydive, but did I really decide?
Did I really make a decision?
Well, no, I didn't, because to me, when you make a decision, you literally cut out all the other
options.
You make a decision, you comment, you do it.
You don't just second guess your decision.
You do what you said you're going to do.
And the reality is that I ended up procrastinating.
I had a few opportunities to jump off a plane and I didn't take them because of that fear.
Now I don't make the story too long.
So to make the long story short, after some time I went back to Poland to visit my family, and one
day I realized that if I don't truly comment, I'll never do it.
So what I did was I pre committed I booked my skydive actually in Dubai.
Great place to do it.
By the way, if you are thinking about skydiving, great team over there.
So I pre-booked that skydive.
I paid for it in advance.
I booked all my flights and then I told everyone about it.
I literally told everyone, hey, I'm going to be skydiving.
I think it was January, middle of January.
I told everyone, the next thing you know, obviously the money left my account and everyone is messaging
me.
Oh, man, that's awesome.
You know, let us know how it went, blah, blah, blah.
I had no other option.
Now I pre committed.
I had to do it.
Now, why am I telling you the story?
Well, because if you want to do things that push you, you got to pre comment.
You've got to put your wall, your money, something on a line.
You don't just want to say, oh, I'm going to do this, I'm going to do that.
If you just say it, you probably won't do it.
You always want to comment and ideally you want to pre comment, right?
If you wait until the time to do something, fear may dwarf you.
It may be too difficult for you to summon that courage to do something.
So what I believe in is that you want to prescheduled things in advance.
So you know that that one thing will scare you, but you prescheduled it for maybe four weeks from now.
You'll literally put it in your calendar, you commit and whatever way you can, and the next thing
you know, the time passes by and you realize, Oh, wow, it's tomorrow.
Wow, it's tomorrow.
Whoo!
I can feel it.
But, hey, now you have no other choice.
You come at it, you have to do it.
Now, one thing I want to mention here, I feel like this is important.
Kind of as hysterics.
Pushing your comfort zone and embracing courage is not just about doing big things.
Because a lot of people.
Think I even gave you the example of skydiving.
I just wanted to make it vivid for you.
But the reality is that that's just one way of gaining courage and pushing your comfort zone.
Right?
There are many other ways.
At a smaller level you will notice in this course I'm giving you a lot of different comfort zone challenges
and you will realize that you can push your comfort zone and you can embrace courage in so many different
ways, little ways as well.
And it all depends on your circumstances.
For example, if you are one of those people that find it extremely difficult to talk to strangers,
well, pushing your comfort zone can be as little as you committing to going out there to that gathering
of strangers, a networking event where you know that you will be forced to interact with other people
that you don't know right now.
For another person, this is nothing.
It's like, come on, pushing my comfort zone.
I can talk to strangers, right?
For that person, pushing their comfort zone, maybe getting on a stage or jumping off a bridge, of
course, with a rope ride.
Not not without a rope, but for you, just that activity of going and talking to strangers may be enough
of a push, right?
So again, what I'm saying is never compare yourself to someone else.
Always compare yourself to yourself and design your own challenges based on your situation.
But most importantly, be consistent about pushing your comfort zone and about embracing courage, building
courage for action.
That's how you create courage.
And the more you do it, the more consistent you are, the better you will become at it.
And this will fuel your confidence, because I have to tell you, nothing fuels your confidence as much
as knowing that something feels really difficult, something feels almost insurmountable.
It feels like, you know what?
I want to do it, but just thinking about it scares me.
And then you do it.
And then the same day you look in the mirror and you're like, Wow, I did it.
I didn't know I could do it, but I did it.
And then you do it again and then you do it again.
And then you pick another thing and then you do it again.
And every time you look in the mirror, you realize, Wow, I keep doing those things that seemed so
difficult, huh?
Now you realize that you are more capable than you thought you were.
You realize that you are way more powerful than you thought you were.
Seriously?
So the core message in this video is, don't just watch those lectures.
Don't just watch them passively get fired up.
Go out there, do something.
Build your courage, actively pre-scheduled challenges for yourself, little or small?
Does it matter?
Be consistent.
Go after it.
Do it.
And when you do it, your courage will grow and your confidence will grow as well.

--- The Power of Acceptance ---

Let's talk a little bit about fear and the power of acceptance.
So one of the biggest mistakes people can make is that they feel afraid before presenting, and rather
than accepting the state of affairs, they try to push the fear away.
Now, when I say fear, I don't mean accept it and just roll with it.
What I'm saying is that, first of all, accept that this what's happening right now is totally normal.
Everybody feels a little bit stressed out before presenting.
And as you build up the self awareness, you look at yourself and ask yourself, okay, what do I feel
right now?
I feel my heart beating faster.
I feel that I'm sweating.
I have thousands of thoughts in my mind, right?
You are self aware you are here and now and you accept whatever it is that's happening now.
You can try to shift it.
But first of all, you have to in a way, forgive yourself feeling like this.
And the reason I'm talking about it is because many people fall into this negative pattern of thinking,
Oh my God, I can't believe this is happening to me.
I feel afraid, I feel stressed, and I don't want to feel like this.
And they get -- off that this is what's happening right now.
But guess what?
When you get -- off, when you get annoyed by the current situation, it's not going to get better.
It's going to get worse.
Right?
So rather than just crumbling under that pressure of feeling fear, take a deep breath.
Ask yourself, what do I feel right now?
How does it feel my body?
How does it feel my mind?
Okay, I'm.
I'm accepting this for what it is.
This is the reality of the situation.
I'm just a human.
I forgive myself for feeling like this.
And now you can recalibrate and you can work on essentially reframing how you see this situation.
But I believe that acceptance is very important because every time you kind of want to push the fear
and pretend it's not there, it's going to only get bigger and bigger and bigger.
So instead you have to acknowledge the fear, get familiar with it, accept it, and that's when you
can start smashing the fear.

--- One of the Biggest Misconceptions About Confidence ---

One of the most common questions people ask me is, So, Jimi, do I have to be extroverted in order
to be confident?
And the simple answer is, of course not.
Now, for some reason, we have that misconception that in order to be confident, you have to be loud,
you have to have this really, really big, powerful body language.
You have to enter the room and talk to everyone and just love interacting with people.
Be super loud all the time.
But this couldn't be further from the truth.
There's also something called calm confidence.
And I'm sure you've seen those people sitting there in the corner, super chilled, relaxed, and they
have this aura.
And when you talk to them, even though they may not talk a lot, they usually ask questions and they
don't share that much.
But he can sense that not nothing can really phase them out.
You could try to start conflict with them.
You could try to frighten them.
Somebody could drop a bunch of plates next to them and nothing is going to face them out.
They have their emotions under control and we can sense that they have this real belief in themselves.
Now, interestingly, a lot of people who are super loud, super out there, well, secretly, they
don't believe in themselves.
I don't want to generalize because there are many different situations, but I feel like it's important
to mention this because a lot of people overcompensate.
If you look in the mirror and you don't like what you see, you don't believe in yourself, you feel
a lot of anxiety.
You you don't feel like you are good enough, but you want to be good enough.
You want people to feel like you are confident.
You want to be accepted.
You crave that approval and validation.
Then it's actually quite normal for you to try to overcompensate if you know that you are not confident
deep inside, well, what's the easiest way to go about it?
You go out there to the social environment and you overdo it.
Rather than being quiet rather than just taking it easy, you are allowed.
You open up, you try to talk to everyone, you try to laugh really hard.
You try to make everyone laugh.
And and a lot of people now looking at you have this misconception that, wow, that's that confident,
charismatic person.
But deep inside, you may feel fragile.
And I want you to notice, because a lot of introverted people, you know, feel like they just can't
become confident.
They feel like it's not their game.
They just cannot get better at it.
But as I always say, confidence is like sport.
The more you practise, the better you become.
And it doesn't matter if you are extroverted or introverted, you can become more confident.

--- Accepting Your Past ---

A lot of people find it difficult to accept their past, especially if you made some huge mistakes in
the past.
But when you really think about it, we've all made mistakes.
It's a part of being a human being.
And I know that sometimes it is difficult to re-examine your life and look back and do the inventory
of all of the things you've done or you haven't done, and focus on all the negatives and focus on the
fact that you have regrets and you screwed up and you did some bad things or you didn't do the things
that you were supposed to do.
But here is a mindset shift that I want to offer you, and I feel like it's going to really help you
not to live in regret.
So as I look at my past, I see a lot of situations that embarrass me.
Like literally when I think about some of the things that I said or I did, I just feel embarrassed
thinking about them.
But here's the reality.
If you look back at your past, let's say you look back at yourself one year, two years, three years
ago, and you don't feel embarrassed about anything.
It simply means that you haven't progressed and let it sink in.
If you're not embarrassed about what you've done a couple of years ago, it means you haven't been progressing
in your life.
It simply means that you are probably very similar to how you used to be.
Right?
If you don't feel embarrassed, if you don't feel shame, there was no progress, right?
And everyone makes mistakes.
So what I'm trying to say here is that being embarrassed and feeling shame and and feeling some type
of regret is actually a good sign because it shows you that you upgraded your thinking.
It shows you that you have a completely different paradigm way of looking at the world.
Now you can recognize the mistakes of the past.
You can recognize those regrets and failures, and thanks to it, you have the awareness.
So in the future you will not make the same regrets.
On the other hand, when you look at people who look at their past and they say Everything was amazing,
I'm so great, I'm the most amazing individual, never made any mistake, don't have any regrets.
Well, these are the people who really don't grow.
They look at themselves in the mirror.
They think they are perfect, but they are not.
No one is perfect.
Everyone makes mistakes.
But those people, they never give themselves any room for improvement.
They never give themselves that push to to take themselves to the next level.
So, again, if if you feel some type of regret, if you feel bad, if you feel that you failed yourself
in the past, reframe it.
And rather than allowing that negativity to govern your life, realize that it can be your power.
Realize that it's a part of your journey.
You've learned a lot.
Every single situation taught you something.
And I'm sure that Stoics always say you can reframe things.
You can either look at the negative or the positive things are not good or bad.
Inherently, they just are.
A lot of people say, Well, I missed my flight.
It's a bad thing.
Again, it's not bad, inherently not bad.
It can be good or bad, depending on the interpretation of that event.
Same thing goes for breaking your phone or not getting that job or your business failing, right?
You can look at it at face value and say this must be negative, but you never really know.
You cannot fully predict the consequences down the line.
You may, for example, miss that job interview because of traffic.
But maybe that wasn't a job for you, right?
Maybe you worked for a company and your boss came to you one day and said, I have some bad news, you
are fired.
And at the moment you just felt just just felt like the world was ending.
You felt like there was no hope.
But then a few years down the line, you managed to build a business and you wouldn't be able to do
it if you didn't have that situation right.
That moment when you felt the pain and you realize, I don't want to work for someone else, I want
to work for myself.
So again, when you look at your past situations, you know, some things ended up leading to something
good.
And even if that's not the case, you never really know what's going to happen in the future.
Right?
Everything is interconnected.
And that's why, rather than wasting your time and energy and wasting your life essentially on pondering
about the mistakes of the past, reframe them into something positive, learn from them and accept the
fact that if you are embarrassed about something you've done in the past, it means that you've been
growing as a person.

--- EXTRA: How To Be More Confident During Virtual Presentations? ---

Hey, guys, I hope that you are doing amazingly well as Jimmy here, and I hope that you've been enjoying
my course.
I hope that I give you a lot of value.
Now I'm making a video that a lot of you have requested me to make.
So even though in this course we are talking primarily about your inner confidence, a lot of you have
been asking me about being confident and the context of doing online video meetups, doing video presentations,
etc. And I know that during the COVID pandemic, a lot of you have to work from home.
A lot of you are doing all types of online meetups.
Some of you are even doing presentations online, and I know that it can get very scary, very frustrating
and uncomfortable to do online presentations, but even to run a regular online meetup on Zoom, a lot
of people tell me that they get freaked out, that they don't like to see themselves in the camera,
that they don't know where to look when when they are doing the meetup, that they cannot collect their
thoughts.
And so I'm going to address all of those issues in this video.
What I'm going to do here is I'm going to give you a bunch of tips, actually, a lot of tips in terms
of how to become more confident during your online presentations and meetups.
I'm going to talk to you about optimizing your space for your online meetups and presentations.
I'm going to give you a bunch of other tips as well, so I hope that you'll enjoy it.
And once again, if you have any other questions, if you want me to make any bonuses, do let me know.
I want to keep improving my courses.
This is not one of those things that you build a course, you release it and you forget about it.
No, no, no.
I have a mindset of never ending improvement, but to do that, I need to get your feedback.
So do let me know.
And by the way, in case you are wondering, I'm on the La Palma Island in the Canary Islands.
After spending a lot of time on a lockdown in Germany, I decided to come here and it's been a month
now, and I decided to take this opportunity to make some bonus videos for you guys.
So let's get started.
Now, the first step I want to talk to you about is very simple, yet very powerful.
And it's a simple fact when you are doing some type of online meeting or presentation, even if you
feel stressed out deep inside, people don't know how you feel.
Now, this may sound overly simplistic, but it's not because just the awareness that people don't know
how you feel deep inside will make you feel more confident.
So let's say that in 10 minutes from now, you have this Zoom meeting and maybe you are the host of
the meeting and your boss will be there and maybe a bunch of other people will be there.
Maybe you even have to deliver a little presentation and you feel freaked out and your heart is beating
faster and you have stomach cramps and you are sweating profusely and you just feel extremely uncomfortable.
Now it's very easy to make an assumption that everyone will be able to see how bad you feel.
But when you just remind yourself that no one can see how you feel, that even though you feel stressed
out deep inside, no one can see it.
And even if you even if you're sweating, the reality is that people won't be able to notice it.
No one will pay any attention.
And when you remind yourself of that, it gives you that extra layer of confidence, because you know
that, hey, I may feel not very confident deep inside, but it doesn't matter.
They don't know it.
And this paradoxically increases your confidence.
Now, the second tip is kind of connected to this because you need to remember that even if you make
a mistake, even if you make a blunder and everyone can actually see it, maybe you mess up your words,
maybe you get a bit awkward for 5 seconds.
We we've all seen those situations.
Maybe you experienced them yourselves when when you say something and then you start mumbling or you
stutter a little bit or you are silent for 5 seconds because you feel weirded out and your heart is
beating faster and and you don't know what to do, right?
If that happens, you have to remember that even though that awkward situation may feel like it, it's
taken forever.
In reality, it usually lasts just for a few seconds.
Okay.
So if you, let's say, get weirded out and you make a long pause and you don't know what to say next
in your head, it feels like it's like an hour of silence.
In reality, most people think that you are simply taking some time to gather your thoughts.
No one is really judging you and thinking, Oh, he or she is really struggling and that person is getting
a panic attack and they don't know what to say.
No one is thinking this right.
People just simply assume that, Oh, you're probably just taking some time to to really think things
through.
When you remind yourself of that, that gives you a lot of power.
And another thing I want to mention here, and this is really important, that even if people see that
something is wrong, even when they see that you may be getting a bit stressed out, you may be feeling
a bit of pressure, this paradoxically makes them bond with you.
More people relate to other humans.
People don't relate to perfection.
So if you try to be perfect, if you up you perfect to other people, you're not.
Relatable.
On the other hand, if you make a little mistake, if you get awkward for a few seconds, that's actually
fine because all of those other people loosen up.
They see, Oh, wow, that person is just a human.
And I know it sounds counterintuitive and you probably don't want to be in that situation, but just
by reminding yourself that if you are imperfect, that makes you human, therefore it connects you to
others.
That in itself will give you a lot of power.
Now, the third step I want to talk to you about is practicing.
And what I say practicing.
What I mean by this is when you do any type of Zoom meeting or Skype meeting or any type of online presentation,
you've got to take it seriously.
You've got to treat it as if it's a regular meeting because see, a lot of people think that just because
it's online, it's not that serious.
And what often happens is that if you are doing a regular meetup where you meet people face to face,
you practice, you take it seriously, you want to get yourself into the right state.
But because you don't take online events seriously, when you actually show up, you realize that,
Oh, I'm actually not prepared, I haven't practiced.
I don't know what I'm going to say.
Or maybe you you meet with a bunch of people that you don't know.
Perhaps you have a meeting between different teams and, you know, only two people and you don't know
the other eight.
And at some point someone says, Why don't you introduce yourself because they don't know you.
And you could have anticipated that question and you could have prepared yourself for it.
But you haven't you haven't done the homework.
You haven't done enough practice.
So what I want to stress here is that it is extremely important to take all online meetups very seriously
and to prepare.
Now, one thing about preparation and this is powerful when you prepare, don't just prepare in the
offline mode by yourself with no pressure.
Ideally, what you want to do is you want to create a little bit of pressure, pressure in your preparation,
because whenever you practice, you want to make it as close to reality as possible.
So I'm going to give an example.
Right?
So a few months ago, I was delivering this online presentation at this big online summit.
And obviously it was impossible for me to practice in front of real people because we were on a lockdown,
but because the presentation was online, I figured, how can I increase this perceived discomfort during
my practice?
So when I actually delivered the presentation, it's not going to feel so strange, so uncomfortable,
and what I did was pretty clever.
So I went to this one coffee shop.
You know, back at that time, coffee shops were still open in Germany, so I sat outside.
There are quite a lot of people there.
I opened my laptop, I put on my headphones and I practice my entire presentation in that coffee shop
in front of my laptop as if I was doing a real presentation in front of a live audience.
Now people who are sitting in that coffee shop, they didn't know that I was just practicing.
They legitimately thought that I was doing some type of online presentation that wasn't too loud.
I didn't want to be obnoxious, but people around me could clearly see that I was doing something important.
So from time to time they were kind of peeking at me.
They were trying to figure out what was going on.
Now that in itself put additional pressure on me because I felt like, --, now those people really
think I'm giving a real presentation.
I have to I have to deliver.
I have to keep going till the end.
And because of that extra pressure I put on myself during my practice, it it gave me so much confidence
when I had to deliver the real presentation online because it felt like I was already in that boat.
You know what I mean?
It's kind of like when you jump into the water, when when you jump when you jump into cold water for
the first time, it feels very cold.
But when you just keep jumping in and then and then after some time yet just to the new environment,
the water doesn't feel cold anymore.
In fact, you start feeling warm.
And this is exactly what happened to me because I was practicing in this uncomfortable environment when
I have to enter the really uncomfortable environment, meaning a real life presentation in front of
a live audience.
I was prepared, I was ready and I felt comfortable.
So this is how you should practice your presentations and live events, put some discomfort on yourself
and you can do it in a variety of ways, right?
If you can go to a coffee shop and replicate what I've done, great.
If you are on a strict lockdown or for whatever reason you don't want to go to a coffee shop.
What you can do is you can practice by pushing your comfort zone on on a Facebook Live or Instagram
live.
Right.
You can simply go online and you can talk to your friends.
And that in itself will push your comfort zone a little bit.
So when you have that real presentation or real virtual meet up, that that is actually important you.
Will not feel like you are jumping right into the cold water.
Another thing to remember, and this is extremely powerful and a lot of people miss out on this, is
that when you are doing online calls or video presentations, first impression really matters is just
like in real life.
So when people see you and if the lights are dimmed, then your face is not very visible and your audio
quality is bad.
People will not think, Oh, too bad, you know, oh, he or she is on a lockdown.
They probably don't have great equipment.
Not the big deal, no.
Subconsciously, people will judge you for that.
People see you if they can't see your face clearly.
If they can hear you clearly subconsciously, they will feel like, well, maybe you are not a quality
person.
I know it sounds weird and no one wants to hear it, but we judge the book by its cover.
Right?
And that's why it is so important that your first digital impression is very powerful.
And in order to make it powerful, you have to make sure that you set up your set up is correct.
So what you want to make sure is that your audio quality is perfect and it doesn't cost a lot to make
it happen, right?
You can get a basic microphone and make it a reality.
You want to make sure that there is some source of light in front of your face.
You see, one of the biggest mistakes people make is that they have light behind them.
Like even right now I'm filming The Sun is right over there so you can see me clearly.
But if we positioned ourselves differently, if the camera was over there and if I was facing that direction,
you wouldn't be able to see my face because the sun would be behind me.
Right?
So no matter what environment you are presenting from or doing meet ups from, make sure that the source
of light is always in front of you.
So it lights up your face.
And if you remember about those really basic things, then you will create that really good first digital
impression.
But it goes beyond that.
Obviously in this course, you know, our goal is for you to become more confident, but also for you
to become more successful as a person in general.
Right?
So if you really want to optimize your video calls, you want to make sure that you use body language.
So, for example, right now you can see my hands, right?
You can see that I'm gesturing when I say certain things.
I really believe in what I say, right?
I really speak with my entire body.
And the mistake people make when they present in front of a camera, when they do virtual meetups,
is that they literally crop just their face.
So you can see just the face.
And very often, as I said before, there is no light, so you can barely see the other person.
The audio quality is not good and because of that you can really feel that the person is talking to
you.
What you want to do is you always want to make sure that you move the laptop a little bit away from
yourself, so at least your hands are visible.
And a simple reason is that when you talk to someone, even on a video, when they see your palms,
they are more likely to trust you.
And the reason is that it's hardwired in our brains.
Back in the day when we were very tribal, if you met another tribe, you wanted to see their palms
just to make sure that they don't have any weapons.
Because if somebody approached you like this or like this, then you never know.
Maybe.
Maybe that person has a knife over there.
Maybe there's a little gun or something else.
Maybe there is a stone over there.
But if someone approached you like this, it basically meant a common piece.
I have no weapons.
I want to be friends, and it's hardwired in our brain.
So even nowadays, when you do a video call with someone and you cannot see their their arms or you
see their arms, but they have this close position, it's very difficult to find common ground with
that person to truly connect.
On the other hand, when you see someone's full posture, when you see that the other person has an
open position, you see their palms, it makes you trust them more.
They seem more open, they seem more positive, and also they seem more confident and charismatic.
So if you embrace that, if you embrace that open body language, if you show your palms, then you
are more likely to build a connection with the other person or with the audience in case you are presenting.
So this is really powerful.
Another clip I want to give you.
And as you see, I have a lot of tips for you.
I figured I'm making this video on me as well, give you as much as possible here.
Another tip is that when you present or when you interact with people online, for example, on Zoom,
you have a huge advantage of being able to have some notes in front of you.
Now, a lot of people make a mistake of having too many notes in front of them, right?
They literally read what they want to say and others can clearly see it, especially if you present
and if you are just reading from your notes, people can see it.
You have absolutely no charisma and you just don't come across authentic.
People can see that you are reading, but you can cleverly position bullet points, for example, on
Post-it notes behind your behind your laptop.
Or next to your laptop to remind yourself of some of the most important points that you want to mention
during your presentation or meeting and what you can't do as well.
And I like to do it myself.
You can have a cup of tea or a glass of water, and whenever you are talking, whenever you want to
collect your thoughts or whenever you want to look at some bullet points to remind yourself of what
you want to say, you take that cup of tea or a glass of water, you take a sip.
But as you're taking a sip, you can look at different points, you know, around your laptop to remind
yourself of your bullet points.
This is really powerful, by the way, if you lose the composure, because this happens to a lot of
people.
You know, a lot of people in my courses have been messaging me about being awkward and feeling anxious.
And this is something that happens to a lot of people.
You know, we have that online presentation, you have that big zoom meet up and suddenly you feel the
blood rushing and you feel your stomach cramping and you feel utterly uncomfortable.
You know the feeling, right?
You feel like you just want to run away.
You want to close your laptop, pretend there is some issue, just want to run away.
Now, if you feel like this, you can take that glass, you can take a sip, and people just assume
that you're thirsty.
That's it.
Nobody would really think too much of it.
But you can take a sip, can take a deep breath, and you can regain your composure.
Another tip that just came to my mind and this is, by the way, really powerful.
If you ever get freaked out when you talk to people on a zoom call, what you can do is you can also
minimize the window.
So, you know, the the feeling when, say, you talk to a big team, you talk to 15 or 20 people on
a zoom call and you see all of those faces and it can get intimidating.
Right.
It feels like you're really talking to full room of people.
What you can do is you just minimize the window and it makes it less intimidating.
And I use it myself from time to time.
You know, I have my bad days.
I'm just a human.
I'm not some machine, right?
I mean, sometimes when you see my presentations, you may assume that I literally jumped out of my
mom's room with a microphone.
It was always easy for me.
But, you know, as you know from some of my other videos wasn't always the case.
I used to have social anxiety.
I used to struggle with confidence issues.
Even one time I run away from a state.
So, you know, I'm still not I still haven't figured everything out.
I still have those days when I have to deliver a big presentation or I have a big meetup on Zoom with
a lot of people.
And stakes are high.
And I don't feel at my best.
Maybe I had a late flight and I haven't slept enough.
Maybe I have a headache, right?
Whatever it is.
So when situations like this happen to me, I like to minimize that window.
So I don't see all of those people staring at me.
And this in itself makes me feel more comfortable.
So if you struggle with anxiety, if you struggle with awkwardness, if you struggle with confidence
issues, this will help you.
Also, some people feel freaked out when they see themselves.
So, you know, when you talk to someone on Zoom or when you do some type of video presentation and
you literally see yourself on a camera, like you see yourself on the screen, a lot of people get freaked
out.
A lot of people don't like to look at themselves.
A lot of people and by the way, maybe you are one of them, have limiting beliefs about how they look,
how they are projected.
If that's the case, if you minimize the window and you just focus on looking out at the lens, then
you will take a lot of stress away from yourself.
As you can see, this video has been pretty long.
I really want to give you as much value as possible.
But there are two more things I really have to mention here.
Very important, very basic.
But a lot of people forget about those things.
Now, the first thing is that whenever you are doing an important call, you have to make sure that
you double check your technology.
And the simple reason is that I had situations myself when I was about to jump on a very important call
and then the wi fi stopped working, right?
Or my my microphone wasn't working or there was some issue with my setup.
So you always want to make sure that you double check those things in advance and ideally do it in a
real way.
So rather than just double checking when you go to zoom, you kind of go to preferences and and you
can make sure that the mic is set up properly rather than doing just that.
I like to actually call up someone to make sure that everything is fine.
So for example, I would call up one of my family members or one of my friends on a video call on Zoom
just to make sure that everything is working well, just to make sure that the audio quality is fine,
just to make sure that the wi fi works perfectly well.
And in case it doesn't, I still have some time to fix it.
Now, speaking of which, I also believe in having a backup plan.
Right?
So ideally and of course, I know not all of you can do this, but ideally you want to have a separate
microphone, a separate source of light.
Ideally, you want to have some type of mobile internet as well.
So when you have that very important meeting or presentation, if your tech disappoints you and stops
working, at least you have.
An insurance option.
And finally, you want to make sure that whenever you do some important call, you communicate it to
anybody who lives in your household.
And that's crucial because we've all seen those situations.
And there's some funny videos out there on YouTube, by the way.
We just just search for it on YouTube.
There are so many fun videos of people doing Zoom calls and then suddenly a naked spouse walk in or
the dog goes crazy, or a bunch of kids just roll in with all types of toys while the dog is doing a
BBC interview.
There are a lot of those stories and you know, they're funny to watch for us, but they are certainly
not funny for those people.
And they're in those situations, they're probably felt like they just wanted to disappear.
So you want to avoid those situations from happening.
And that's why you always want to make sure that you clearly communicate to everyone in your household.
Listen, guys, I'm going to be doing an important call.
Please don't disturb me.
Please don't be too loud.
This is very important to me.
You know, recently I was also on Canary Islands and another island, Gran Canaria, with my girlfriend
and my very good friend Tom.
And at some point I had a bunch of really important calls doing online summits, and I was negotiating
this really big deal as well.
And I said, Hey, Tom, just so you know, tomorrow I'm doing really important calls and I need to
make sure that I have my space here.
And he said, Oh, really?
I also I'm also doing important calls tomorrow.
What's time?
And we realized that if we didn't communicate properly, then we would have had a big problem, because
Tom is also a very loud guy.
And even though, you know, we had a bunch of rooms in a flat, it wouldn't be enough.
The walls were very thin and there would be definitely noise, right?
We would have a problem and we avoided that problem by clear communication.
So as simple as it sounds, just make sure that whenever you have something important, let everyone
know.
So at least you don't need to stress about somebody walking into the room or pulling some trick on you.
Anyway, this is it for now.
Hope that you enjoy this video.
Probably is like 15 minutes long by now, but I really try to give you as much value as possible.
And I tried to approach this video from different angles.
You know, I'm kind of pulling advice based on various questions I've been getting here on Udemy.
Again, a lot of you have been asking me about confidence, about speaking on a camera, about doing
virtual calls, and I hope that all of those tips will help you to become a more confident presenter,
but also to feel more comfortable when you have any type of virtual meetup.
So let me know what you think.
And I want to wish you an amazing day.

--- EXTRA: Why & How Your Network Impacts Your Confidence ---

As we are talking about confidence, we have to discuss the topic of the types of people that you surround
yourself with.
Now that you hear the statement that birds of a feather flock together, you become the average of five
people you deal with, that your network becomes your net worth.
All of those statements are true because the fact is people you deal with have a tremendous impact on
your life.
That's how we are designed evolutionarily, right?
You take cues from people around you.
If everyone around you is negative, if everyone around you is pessimistic, you are not very likely
to be optimistic.
Now, of course, there are some individuals out there with tremendous resilience and tremendous inner
power who can stay positive no matter what.
But let's face it, for the majority of people, really, people who are around you will have a tremendous
impact on who you are.
But this works both ways.
So if you have amazing individuals, inspiring characters around you, they will push you to the next
level.
And this is so important on your path to becoming more confident, because remember in this chapter
we are talking about your core confidence.
We are not just talking about presenting during virtual gatherings, we are talking about the basics,
the foundation.
So if you want to cultivate confidence over time, you have to be very careful who you spend your time
with.
And what I suggested is that ask yourself, what are the types of people that you spend your time with?
And be very careful.
Take some time to analyze the types of relationships that you have.
And it may be worth recalibrating, right, and reassessing who you want to spend your time with.
Now, I know that a lot of people struggle because they have their old friends and they may not be that
positive.
They may be actually quite negative.
They may be complaining a lot and whining a lot, and they may not believe that big things are possible.
But because you are already friends with them, it just feels comfortable to stay in that social circle.
It's easy, right?
You know, those people you feel comfortable with them is just easy to to to embrace the status quo
without moving out of your comfort zone.
But if you do that, if you stay within that circle, you're not very likely to to progress in life.
You may progress, but it's going to be difficult.
So it is important that you are conscious about picking the right people for yourself.
Now, I'm not saying go crazy, you know, berserker mode and within a day call up all of the negative
people in your life and say, Sorry, it's over, I can't deal with you.
I just can't spend even a minute with you because you are negative and suddenly go and try to find your
friends.
Not talking about that, you can do it gradually.
What I'm talking about is just, just being brutally honest with yourself and reassessing how much time
you spend with different types of people.
So, for example, a lot of individuals struggle with negative family members.
And I always say, well, there are a couple of things that you can do.
You don't suddenly need to give up on your family.
But what you can do is, first of all, you can try to help your family members to become more positive
by, for example, showing them positive material, by trying to lead by example.
Right?
If you become more positive, you're more likely to influence them.
But at the same time, you can try to get them at their best.
And this is something I learned from Eben Pagan, and he always says that when you deal with someone
who is very negative in many situations in life, then find out in what situations they tend to be positive.
We all know those characters who tend to be very negative, but when they do something that they love,
whether it's watching art or playing football or watching UFC or whatever it is, they love it.
Even they feel positive.
Well, get them at their best, do those types of things with them when they are at their best.
Another thing is that what you want to do is you want to consciously choose to create new relationships
with people who are positive and who you aspire to be more like.
And I feel like we tend to be lazy and as I said at the beginning, when we have our social circle,
it's very easy to assume, well, these are my people and this will be my circle for life.
It's very uncomfortable to seek people who inspire us, because usually what happens is those people
who are making big moves in life who really empower and inspire us, they make us realize how how much
we have to do, how much work we have to do on ourselves.
When you meet someone who has everything handled in a certain area of their life, it shows you how
much work you still have to do.
And it's uncomfortable and people don't want to face that right.
For example, as a speaker, as someone who produces a lot of videos, I speak on many stages.
I do a lot of live events.
If I hang out with Tony Robbins or.
Brian Tracy or people like that.
They are tremendous communicators.
When I look at them, I realize, wow, I still have a long way to go.
I still can improve.
There's still things that I can improve about my craft.
But as great, it should never be negative.
You should perceive those things as a positive thing because you want people to push you.
So I recommend that you take some time to sit down.
I did take a piece of paper and write down the names of some of your key friends, skew relationships
and analyze them and ask yourself, Is this relationship contributing to my life or is it taken away
from my life?
And then based on that, try to recalibrate a little bit.
And it's not an overnight process.
It's something that you have to keep doing over and over again.
Right.
And try to consciously seek out people who are positive, who are empowering, who are making big moves
in life, who inspire you and make effort to reach out to them.
Now, I'm not talking about mass emailing.
I get 100 different people not talking about that.
But when you find someone that you can resonate with that you aspire to be more like, then put some
effort in, try to provide value to them, right?
Try to do something for them because that's the easiest way to start a relationship.
For example, if you want to find a mentor, if you just message that person and say, Hey, can you
be my mentor?
I love what you are doing and I think I can learn a lot from you.
You are just focusing on yourself.
You are not even focusing on what's in it for them.
You are just selfishly focusing on yourself.
And guess what?
If that person is really amazing at what they do, they probably get a ton of messages like this.
So the obvious answer is, no, I'm not going to be your mentor.
In most cases, they won't even respond.
Why?
Because you clearly just focus on yourself.
But if you put some effort, if you ask yourself, okay, I want that person to be my mentor, what
can I do to make them want to be my mentor?
How can I help them?
Right?
If they are some type of influencer, maybe they've written books.
You can ask yourself, Well, how could I help them with their business, with spreading the message?
Maybe you could.
Maybe you could send people to their landing page to get their books.
Maybe you could do book reviews, maybe you could help them with their Instagram page.
I'm just making this up now.
There are many different things that you could do, but the point is, when you start with with this
idea of how can I provide value to the other person, they're more likely to actually open up to you.
And this happened to me, you know, on both sides of the equation.
So I had people reach out to me so many times literally saying, Hey, Jamie, I've been watching your
videos.
I love your content.
I love to jump on a call with you because I think you could be a great mentor.
And I'm thinking to myself, to be completely honest with you, yes, of course I want to help, but
I have a lot of people writing to me and there's no way I can talk to all of them.
So why would I pick someone who makes no effort?
To me, it's a it's a no go, right?
It's like instantaneous.
No.
But I also had situations when people would reach out and they would offer value.
And and sometimes, you know, I'm just inspired by the creativity of that person.
Right.
Like recently someone reached out to me and said, Hey, I made this digital painting of you and your
girlfriend.
Here you go.
Like, you know, no strings attached.
I just did it for you because I love your courses.
Wow.
I was really impressed and I shared it.
And, you know, that person is on my radar now.
I had a situation where now my very good friend Martin reached out to me probably like 50 times with
this idea of trying to provide value, always trying to figure out how he could help me.
And eventually we entered into this communication.
We started talking to each other, we became friends.
But it started with Martin trying to figure out, how can I help this guy, right?
Rather than what can I take from him now?
How can I help him first?
So I remember one time he met my friends already.
He knew my friends in person.
We only knew each other online.
And he asked me, Hey, what is your address?
What's the address?
If I send something, what's the address that you're actually going to get it?
And because my friends already knew him, I decided it's not creepy, I'm just going to give him my
address.
So I did it and he sent me a bunch of books and with a note and he said, I think you will really enjoy
those books.
I know you like to read a lot.
You should read those books.
And I'm like, Wow, this is this is tremendous.
Wow, this is this is great.
I was very impressed.
Right.
So it's about those types of gestures that puts you on the radar of potential mentors.
Now, on the flip side, I also had situations when I would seek out those highly successful people.
Like one of them is Stephen Price.
Field So to give an example, you know, Stephen Press Field is one of my favorite authors ever.
You know, he wrote books such as The War of Art, The Gates of Fire.
Recently, a man at Arms, he wrote Do the Work, The Artist Journey, a lot of different projects,
almost 20 books.
And he's been rioting for tens of years is incredible, right?
He is a tremendous, tremendous character.
So I've been a big fan of Stephen Press.
Then at some point, I just I just wanted to reach out to him.
So I sent him an email.
I was aware that he doesn't accept pitches.
He doesn't do a lot of interviews.
You know, he doesn't do book forewords and things like that.
But I sent him an email and I was just very honest.
I said something in the lines of.
Hi Steven, my name is Ray Rain.
I just want to say that I love your content, I love your books.
And I went a bit into detail why I love his books.
And I said, Listen, I've been recommending your work to my audience.
And, you know, I just want to say kudos, amazing work.
And I'm looking forward to seeing more of your book, something like that.
And I just send that message.
I didn't want anything.
I really legitimately didn't want anything.
I just wanted to express my appreciation.
Then he responded.
So then I responded back.
And to make the long story short, we actually ended up ended up doing a podcast together after which
he said, Jimmy, it's been a pleasure.
Any time you want to do it again.
I mean, it's been awesome talking to you and I'm just thinking, wow, it's incredible.
My mentor, one of my heroes, Stephen Priestfield, and I'm having a conversation now and I am in touch
with him.
But those things happen when rather than thinking about yourself selfishly, you are thinking about
how you can add value to another person's life.
And everyone has different types of value they can add.
You know, in my case, whenever I want to reach out to someone, I'm thinking to myself, maybe I can
promote that person to my audience, maybe I can do something for them.
Maybe I can put them in touch with someone, right?
That's how I'm thinking.
You may be wondering.
I don't have any audience.
I mean, I can't offer that, but we can offer other things.
Maybe you are really great at graphic design, right?
Maybe you are great at social media.
Whatever it is, everyone has value that they can offer.
The problem is that most people are too lazy to sit down, even for 2 minutes, to ask themselves,
How can I help another person?
But I can guarantee you that if you do that, and if you actually ask yourself consciously, How can
I help that potential mentor?
And then you actually help them without expecting anything in return?
And if you don't get anything in return, rather than getting -- off, you ask yourself, Maybe
I can help that person.
Some more amazing things will happen.
You won't have a 100% success rate.
It just doesn't happen in this world, maybe in Hollywood, right?
And all of those movies, it can happen in real life.
It doesn't happen.
But the thing is, if you live your life with this philosophy, good things will come to you can call
it karma, you can call it something else.
But I believe that when you are good to other people, things will come back to you.
So all in all, long video, very spontaneous.
We were just talking here with the entire crew and we were talking about the concept of building relationships
and and being surrounded by right.
People and the fact that when you have negative people around you, it really impacts your confidence
in a negative way.
On the flip side, when you have mentors, when you have positive people, when you have a support team
around you, that really boosts your confidence.
So all in all, this is one of those topics that it's not an easy trick or strategy, it's not an easy
hack.
It takes time.
You've got to be consistent.
But if you take it seriously and if you are more conscious about people you spend your time with over
time, your life will dramatically change.
You ever notice how you spend a lot of time with an old friend and then maybe after a week together
you went on holiday, you start speaking in a similar way, right?
Maybe that person uses a certain saying and then you start speaking like that and you're like, Oh wow,
I speak like you now.
Well, it happens because we take cues from other people, even on the subconscious level.
So when you have the right, the right crowd around you, well, you will adopt some of those powerful
traits from those people.
So anyway, I could go on and on.
I'm pretty sure the message is clear.
Be careful and be conscious of who you spend your time with.
That's the guys.
I'm going to see you in the next video.

--- Let THEM Brag About You! ---

Whenever you're in the situation, when somebody introduces you before you present, whether you are
in your company or maybe at a university or perhaps at a conference, make sure that they get a proper,
powerful introduction.
And the reason I'm telling you this is because not all hosts are created equal.
They are really good hosts and there are really bad hosts.
And you might say, well, it's not in my control.
I'm going to let them do their job.
But you have some influence on those hosts.
So what I would say is always take the matters in your own hands and talk to the host before your presentation.
Make sure that you give them all the ammunition so they can introduce you in a powerful manner.
For example, I had a situation before I actually had a bunch of situations like this where I would
be presenting at an event and the host wasn't very experienced and wasn't very confident and didn't
really know much about me.
And the introduction would go something like this.
Hi everyone.
So I hope you've been enjoying so far this this event.
The next speaker is a very good speaker.
His name is Jimmy Noren, and he will talk to you about building an online business.
Jimmy Ryan, welcome.
And I'm literally not kidding.
I got intros like this, right?
I mean, it's terrible.
It's completely terrible because now people know my name, but they don't know what I've done in my
life.
They don't know why I'm credible.
They don't know why they should be listening to me.
And after introduction like this, well, I'm getting on a stage and I have two options.
I can either just go on to the topic of my presentation briefly introducing myself, risking that people
don't think I'm credible enough to be on that stage, or I can actually spend some time telling them
why I'm credible.
I can tell them a bit about myself and what I've been up to, what I've managed to accomplish.
But guess what?
Right now I risk being show offy.
So you may be wondering, Jimmy, how all of this relates to perceived confidence.
And it's actually very simple when you make sure that you get a proper powerful introduction, when
you make sure that your host, whoever it is, introduces you in such a way that people can see right
away that you are credible, that you are meant to be there, that you have something to teach them.
Well, first of all, there's going to build your credibility in the eyes of other people and the eyes
of the audience that's going to really build you up.
Right.
Your status, your prestige.
Right.
And also your perceived confidence will go up dramatically.
But also you yourself will feel more confident.
You know, a proper introduction will pump you up.
It will give you energy.
So when you get on a stage, you feel like, wow, that was me, huh?
Wow.
You know, when you hear the introduction, you're almost like scratching your head thinking, Was that
person talking about me or was it someone else?
You realize that you are actually better than you sometimes think you are, so you get on a stage fired
up.
Obviously that changes your energy, changes your vocal projection, changes your body language.
Introductions are really important.
For example, recently I was speaking in Dubai.
I was actually doing this conference called Sharjah Entrepreneurship Festival.
I mentioned it a few times and discourse.
So before I was getting on a stage, my friend from mine Value Running gave me a really incredible introduction.
So running is, I believe right now he's the head of the health and Fitness Department at mind value.
And he didn't give me a 22nd introduction or 42nd introduction.
He gave me, I believe, three or four minute introduction.
Right.
He shared a bunch of things about me.
She told people about my accomplishments.
She taught people what he respects about me, what he learned from me.
And I have to say, I felt already confident.
I felt comfortable.
I told you in other videos I was standing there doing my breathing exercises.
But during his introduction, I could feel this, this, this energy common to me.
I could feel this power that I didn't feel before because the introduction was so good.
And when I when I jumped on a stage, I even joked, I said, whoa, like I said something along the
lines of, whoa, what a great introduction.
Like, I was standing there wondering, Who are you talking about?
Right?
Who is that guy?
Because it really gave me that energy, right?
It's completely different vibe from me being introduced by the person I described before.
Right?
Flat delivery, not saying anything about me.
Now I'm aware that everyone watching this video has different circumstances and you will be presenting
and different setups.
You may not always have someone to introduce you.
You may not always have the control over what they say.
Right?
There are situations where you just show up and they introduce you.
But but what I'm trying to say in this video is that try to make extra effort to connect with the host,
whether it's in your company, whether it's externally, just make that extra effort.
If you don't know who will introduce you, we'll find out as the organizer, right?
As ask whoever is in charge, hey, do you know who's going to be introducing me and then make effort,
meet with that person?
Don't just tell them, hey, hey, my name is Jimmy.
Listen, I heard you're going to be introducing me.
I want you to say this and this and that.
You don't want to do it this way, right?
You want to build a human connection.
You want to introduce yourself.
You want to be nice.
Actually, you want to be extra nice.
Let me put it this way.
You want to be extra nice, you want to connect with them and and then you just want to have a gentle
conversation.
Hey, so I heard you will be introducing me.
And do you need any help with that?
If there is anything I can help with in terms of providing some info or ideas, what you could say,
let me know.
Right?
You could start in a gentle way and usually House will be very grateful for that.
Now, from my experience, the job of a host is not easy, right?
I have done this a bunch of times.
I've been, for example, hosting the European Championships of Obstacle Racing, you know, tens of
thousands of people.
I spoke five different languages on a stage for the for the record disclaimer, you know, Italian and
Portuguese was very basic, but I had to use different languages juggled different things on a stage
non stop trying to pronounce names of people from all over the world was really difficult and that's
just one experience.
I had more.
But the point is it's a tricky job, right?
Often what happens is a lot of those speakers who get on those stages, they are busy people, especially
if you are doing a big conference.
You know, a lot of them are just so busy.
They fly in and fly out is very hard to get to them.
So as a host, what often happens is you just get a basic info, right?
You get a piece of paper and it says, okay, this is the CEO of this company or this is the manager
of this or this is whatever entrepreneur.
And you usually have to gather intelligence yourself and then you decide what you're going to say about
that person.
And typically what house do is whatever they get.
That's what they say, hey, an X person presenting will be X, Y and Z and this person is the CEO of
whatever company, right?
So when you go out of your way to meet the host, they actually really appreciate it because most probably
you will be one out of very few people who are willing to do it, so they will appreciate it.
And from my experience, also from the speaker side, when you do that, when you speak to the hosts,
they will usually ask you, hey, listen, you know, I have some notes on you, but what would you
like me to say?
Like, what are the things I should put emphasis on?
The same thing applies when you do podcast interviews.
People often ask you, Hey, what should I say?
Do you want to promote anything specific?
Is there anything about you that I should put emphasis on?
And then you tell them, You know what, it would be great if you mentioned that I want this award would
be great if you mentioned that I have these many clients would be great if you mentioned that I work
with Fortune 500 companies, etc..
All right.
So you can tell that person what you want them to say about you.
And in a way, they become your wingman or wing woman.
Right?
They get on a stage, they introduce you, they tell the audience all the great things about you.
So then you don't have to do it.
And again, your perceived confidence increases, but also your confidence inside increases because
you feel great after such introduction.
So all in all, it's a win win.
And I highly recommend that you make an extra effort to go out there and make it happen.

--- Becoming an "Actor" - The WHY and HOW ---

This video may sound a little bit counterintuitive.
So please, Merwin, I want you to become an actor.
I really want you to become an actor.
You may be wondering, what are you talking about?
Should I pretend that I'm somebody that I'm not?
And no, I'm not saying that.
But I do believe that we can learn a lot from amazing actors.
Think about it.
I think about some of the most incredible actors out there.
Kerry Washington, for example.
I mean, her performance in The Ray was incredible.
Jamie Foxx, one of my favorite actors ever.
Al Pacino, Robert De Niro.
When you think about those types of actors, Halle Berry.
Right.
I could just keep going on and on.
But when you think about some of those best actors ever, what do they have in common?
What do they have in common?
Well, when they are playing a character, they're actually not just playing that character.
They are becoming one with that character.
So, for example, let's take Al Pacino in the Scarface.
Now, in case you haven't heard Scarface, you have to go and you have to watch that movie.
It's just incredible.
But Al Pacino was playing that vicious drug lord.
And, you know, obviously, it involved taking illegal drugs and shooting and doing all types of crazy
things.
And so Al Pacino said that when he was playing in that movie, he wasn't simply going to the set and
then switching into Scarface in a moment.
Okay.
I'm Al Pacino, and now I'm going to become Scarface for that scene.
And I'm going back to Al Pacino now.
He literally tried to become the Scarface, right?
He tried to become that person.
And some incredible stories out there.
Just go on YouTube.
You know, he's talking about it is really fascinating how he said that he tried to just completely
change his mindset and really become that person who is constantly on drugs.
Right.
Constantly unstable, aggressive.
Right.
He tried to become that person.
And when you see his performance, I mean, it's just incredible.
But it's because he became one with that character that he was portraying.
And look, I'm actually tempted because I you know, I love what actors do.
To me, it's fascinating.
And I'm tempted to give you like 15 different examples now.
But obviously it's beyond the scope of this video.
The reason I gave you the example of Al Pacino is because, well, you know, if he can't do it and
other actors can do it, then definitely we can do it, at least to some extent.
Now, obviously, we are not trained actors.
Maybe you are.
Maybe you are watching this, maybe maybe you are an actor.
But most people watching this video are not trained actors.
But to some extent, we can all become more like actors.
Right.
So let me ask you a question.
And actually, I want to take you for a little thought experiment that's going to be really fascinating.
So imagine that you are minding your own business and then suddenly out of nowhere, somebody approaches
you and they tell you, listen, we just saw you from from around the corner.
And you look just like the character we created for our new movie.
We are shooting this new movie in LA.
Then in a couple of weeks from now and you are perfect for that one role that we've created, that role
would require you to play only for a couple of minutes in that movie, right?
The total shooting time will be just one week.
We will fly you in first class.
Okay.
The best hotels, everything sorted.
We're going to fly you in for one week so we can shoot that role and we will pay you $500,000 for that
role.
So obviously now you are getting excited, right?
Wow.
$500,000 first class tickets.
It's only one week of work.
Maybe I'm going to become famous.
Sounds like a no brainer, right?
You definitely want to do it.
But here's the thing.
You ask them.
So, okay, what is the role about who do I have to play?
What is the character?
And you are thinking, well, maybe I just have to pretend I'm just the regular person, but that the
person you're talking to tells you, well, it's going to be really interesting because you will be
playing a really confident presenter, right?
Because in the movie, the protagonist, right.
The main character in the movie is gone through this transformation.
At some point they meet a mentor, right?
And you will become that mentor and you will teach them how to speak in public because you yourself
are that confident.
Presenter You can get on a stage and you are extremely confident and captivating and that's it, you
know, that's it.
Half a million dollars.
We fly you in one week of work.
Are you in?
My question for you is, would you be in?
Would you be in?
Would you would you take half a million dollars and would you do it one week worth of work, potential
fame?
Right.
Maybe more opportunities?
Or would you say, you know what, yeah, it sounds great.
But I tell you what, I'm just going to go back to my regular life and I'm going to say no to you because
there's no way I can play a confident presenter.
I'm just not confident, you know?
There's no way I can do it right.
The other person.
Yes, maybe.
Maybe that guy or that.
Person over German lady over there but me.
No, no, I'm not confident.
I cannot do it.
Come on.
Would you just say that?
Of course not.
Now, maybe some of you.
Yes, maybe some of you feel like, nah, I couldn't do it.
But when you really think about it, if you got offered all of those things, you would surely find
a way.
You would surely find a way.
You would get a coach, you would go out there, you would practice, you would get into the character,
you would do whatever it takes because the price is just too big to miss it, right?
So when you do this thought experiment, you realize, well, anything is really possible, right?
It's not a matter of, you know, I'm I'm not confident.
I cannot look like a really confident person.
It's impossible for me.
That's not true.
Right?
Maybe it's not your biggest priority, right?
Maybe the stakes are not high enough.
But if the stakes were high enough, you would be able to do it.
So again, when we when we go through this thought experiment, we realize, okay, so, so maybe I
actually at this possible maybe maybe actually I could do it right.
Maybe I don't need to wait for, you know, proposal from the Hollywood director to actually make that
transformation.
And I've been going through this thought experiment in the past, and I have to tell you, I used to
I used to think to myself, okay, what would Al Pacino do in this situation?
When I was presenting, for example, my first course could double your confidence and self esteem.
That was almost ten years ago, right?
I was fresh.
I didn't know what I was doing.
I had my content, but I wasn't very experienced in presenting.
But I would ask myself, what would Al Pacino do in this situation?
What would that other actor or actress, what would they do in this particular situation?
And that always helped me to shift my mindset from this is not possible to, Hey, let's see how much
is possible, let's see how far I can go if I really believe that I can.
So I hope that you like this mindset shift.
It's a really interesting thought experiment.
Here is what you think and I'm going to see you in the next video.

--- Always Customize Your Speech ---

So this video is primarily for those of you who present a lot.
So if you tend to present every single week, maybe every two weeks, you go to different places and
you are speaking about the same topics.
You may be tempted to reuse your presentations.
You have your keynote presentation, you have your PowerPoint slides, and you may feel tempted to just
simply reuse everything, have a template, share the same stories, share the same points, and literally
repeat everything you did during other presentations.
Now, for the most part, this shouldn't be a big problem.
However, I would like to mention something that's really important to consider, and is the fact that
sometimes you will be speaking in front of the same people, right?
The same people may be a part of various audiences.
And also when your presentations are being recorded, they will end up out there in the cloud.
They may be on YouTube, they may be on different websites.
You may want to put some of those videos on your website.
And the last thing you want is for people to think that you just memorize the one speech that they keep
giving in many different places.
Again, it's tempting.
It makes it easy.
If you deliver the presentation many times, you know exactly how to do it, you know how to start,
know how to finish.
But rather than succumb to that temptation, I highly encourage you to always customize your presentations.
If you speak a lot and let's say that someone asks you to do exactly the same presentation on the same
topic, instead of succumbing to that temptation, customize it, find out about that specific audience,
change things around a little bit, make a custom introduction referring to the audience, building
that connection with them.
When you share a story, try to share it in a bit different way.
And I'm sharing this with you right now because I'm sure that you've seen a lot of maybe not a lot,
but I'm sure you've seen some people out there who create presentations and all of them look the same.
There are those gurus out there.
I'm not going to mention any names here, but you know who I'm talking about, who delivered the same
presentations over and over again.
And I've been to some speeches like this, and it's always a bit annoying when you can predict what
the person will say.
So you've got that big speaker, he or she is talking about something.
You already know this story, but not just that.
You know exactly how they will narrate the story.
It just makes it very predictable.
There is no excitement.
It it makes you feel like you're wasting your time because you already know what's going to happen.
So why would you even be in the room?
It also makes it feel like they are not very authentic because rather than speaking from heart and customising
whatever they are talking about to the audience, they're just repeating the same things that they always
say.
And I want to urge you not to be that person.
I know that for most of you this advice will not apply.
If you speak just once every couple of months, you probably won't have this issue.
But if you are one of those people who speak a lot or you plan to speak a lot in the future on the same
topic, I highly encourage you to always customize it.

--- Don't Wing It ---

So here's one of the biggest mistakes that people make, and you definitely have to avoid it now.
Disclaimer I used to make this mistake myself and it's trying to wing the presentation.
So what does that mean?
Well, a lot of people just try to be spontaneous.
You have to deliver a presentation or a workshop or some type of training.
And you say to yourself, you know what, I'm just going to wing it.
I know what I have to do.
I know the objectives, I know my content.
I can just show up and I can make it happen.
But here's the thing.
Here is why we often like to do it this way.
Or at least we we try to sell ourselves on this idea that it's better.
The reason is that we are afraid.
And you may be thinking, well, that's counterintuitive.
I would just say that we are afraid if you are able to deliver a spontaneous presentation, essentially
winging it, how can you be afraid?
I mean, that shows confidence, doesn't it?
Well, yes or no, because when you really think about it, what often happens is that we are so afraid
of failure that we want to create, I should say, pre create an excuse for not doing our best because
consider this.
Let's say that you have a presentation three weeks from now.
Imagine that you learn about your audience, you identify your audience, you know your topic.
You try to figure out the objectives of your speech or your workshop.
You work really hard trying to design the outline of the presentation and the content, and then you
practice it and you add stories and you have case studies, and then you practice it again and again
and again and you get yourself into the winner state before the presentation and then you have an intention
of doing your best.
Now what's going to happen if you fail?
What's going to happen if people don't like that presentation as much as you wanted them to like it?
Well, you have no excuse.
You've done your best, right?
You literally don't have any excuse because you know that you gave it your best effort.
And it's pretty tricky because you really you can only look at yourself and blame yourself if it doesn't
work.
However, when you decide that, you will wing it.
When you decide, you know what, I'm just going to be spontaneous.
I'm not going to prepare.
What happens is you move that responsibility.
Oh, I know what I'm talking about, because I used to do it myself.
I'm not proud of it.
Well, we all make mistakes, right?
This used to be one of my mistakes, because what happens is when you do something spontaneously and
then it doesn't work, you can say to other people and most importantly, you can say to yourself,
Hey, listen, Jimmy, it's not a big deal.
You didn't even prepare for it.
You were just winging it.
It was spontaneous.
So of course, it wasn't as good as it could have been.
Right.
But but because of that erroneous mindset, we deprive ourselves of the opportunity of actually doing
our best.
So let me give you an example from the world of martial arts, and it's a really powerful example,
and I'm sure that it's going to make you think so.
There was a fighter called Jon Jones.
Now Jon Jones, he's literally one of the best fighters ever.
And he was he was the youngest heavyweight champion of the UFC.
He was literally killing it.
He was getting all the money and all the fame, but he had meant it in one of the interviews that he
would literally take illegal drugs a week or two weeks before the fight.
He would go and he would party and he would drink and he would take drugs.
And you realize that the true reason he was doing it was because he wanted to give himself some type
of excuse for possibly not winning.
Now, think about how crazy is that, right?
You have a big fight coming up.
You put everything on a line.
You put your title on the line, your entire brand.
Of course, a lot of money on the line and you still engage in those BS activities.
One, we can be fortified, right?
Drugs and alcohol and all of that.
Crazy, right?
Well, this way he gave himself a permission to fail, right?
He won all of those fights because he's a really great fighter.
But if he lost, he could have rationalized to himself, well, I didn't lose because I'm a bad fighter.
I lost because I made a mistake and I partied too much.
That's why I lost.
But if he did everything correctly and then he lost, well, he would have to blame himself.
Well, maybe I'm not as good as I thought I was.
Right.
So this is just one example.
It's an extreme example, but I'm giving it to you because we all do this to some extent.
I'm sure that when you really think about it, you had situations in your life when you essentially
sabotaged yourself.
I certainly did.
I had situations when I sabotage myself, actually, in many different occasions.
And sometimes when I think about those moments, it's almost cringe.
It's disappointing, right?
I'm disappointed in myself.
But again, we do it because we want to remove the pressure, right?
We are afraid of failing.
We want to remove that pressure.
And as a presenter, we definitely don't want to fall into that trap.
So again, make sure that you prepare.
Take your time.
Do your best.
Follow all the advice from this course and you will do well and sure.
Yes, maybe.
If if you don't perform to the best of your ability, you will look in the mirror and you may blame
yourself.
You may think you are not as good as you thought you were.
But I tell you what, at least you will know that you did your best.
And this is the most important thing.
We can control our effort, but we cannot fully control the outcome.
We often think, well, I can I can control the outcome.
No, you cannot.
You can do it just to some extent.
Right.
But you have full control of the effort you will put in.
And I notice that ever since I started putting a lot of effort into making sure that, for example,
those courses are as good as they can be, or my presentations really captivate the audience, you know,
no matter the outcome.
I always felt good about myself.
I could always look in the mirror and literally say to myself, You know what, buddy?
Great job, great job.
You know, you made it happen.
You pushed yourself, you gave it your all, and this is what really matters.
And ultimately, the more you do it, the more you practice, the more you give, the better you will
become.
So, Don, when your presentations, unless it's absolutely necessary, always, always prepare.
And I can guarantee you that you will become incredible in no time.

--- Don't Talk About Yourself Too Much ---

One of the biggest mistakes I see people making is that they talk too much about themselves and their
presentations.
Now, you may be thinking, Well, Jimi, but I have to introduce myself.
I'm sharing my story.
I'm sharing my lessons, my experiences.
And yes, I get it and I do it myself.
Even in this course, I share various stories from my life, but it's all about the intention behind
what you are saying.
And a lot of people have the wrong intention.
I've attended presentations where the speaker was just talking too much about themselves.
So when I was 18 I did this, and then at 20 I did that.
Then I set up this company, then we got this much funding and now my company does this and this and
that.
And I keep wondering, okay, how is this relevant to me?
How is this relevant to all the other people and the audience?
And very often the answer is nothing.
There is nothing, right?
It's just that person showing why they are so amazing.
But there is no value for the audience.
Now, what I learned over the years is that the golden rule is whenever you are talking about yourself,
you want to link it to the audience, right?
This is your audience, this is you.
You always want to build that connection.
The other day I was doing a presentation for the Udemy community, actually.
I was presenting for the Instructor Partner Program and a bunch of other people working for Udemy,
and I was talking about being a captivating, compelling, confident presenter, and I shared some personal
stories, but I linked every single story to people I was teaching, and I told them this right from
the beginning.
I told them, Look, I'm about to share with you a very personal story, but the reason I do it is because
there will be lessons that are relevant to this topic.
I'm going to share with you those lessons in a second.
And when you do it this way, but people listen to you and they can always translate your experiences
to their specific situations and this is powerful.
So when you talk about yourself, make sure that you do it with purpose.
Make sure that you don't just share your experiences and what you accomplish for the sake of it.
Nobody is there for you.
And by the way, this is something that it's hard to wrap our heads around.
Sometimes people are not there for you.
People don't attend your presentation for you, they attend your presentation for themselves.
They are there because they want to learn something for themselves.
Right.
Let me ask you a question.
So when you are reading an autobiography, do you care about that person?
Do you really care about that person?
And you may say, oh, yeah, I do.
You know, I'm a big fan and I get it, but I guarantee you that you care more about yourself.
So you may care about the person who wrote that autobiography.
You may think, Wow, that's a tremendous individual.
He or she did so many great things.
But what's even more important for you is what you will get out of that book.
And this is the reality, right?
Even when we read stories of other people, we are always trying to dig in and find things for ourselves.
And sometimes we are not even consciously aware of it.
But that's what we all do.
And that's why it is so important that whenever you get on a stage, every time you want to speak about
yourself, every time you want to mention some type of credibility factor, what you managed to accomplish,
where you come from, all of those different things, you want to have a very clear purpose behind it.
And if you cannot find a purpose behind it, let's say you want to you want to share a certain content
piece, you want to share a story about yourself, and you find it difficult to figure out what's in
it for the audience.
Let me tell you, you're probably better off skipping that part because it's very likely that when people
listen to it, they'll be kind of scratching their heads thinking, Huh, why am I listening to this?
How is this relevant to this topic?
How is it relevant to us?
And I've seen a lot of those types of presentations and they are really, really painful to watch,
especially when you are waiting for that that final moment of for that person to drop some knowledge.
Right.
And it never comes.
They keep talking about themselves.
They keep talking.
And you keep waiting.
You're hoping.
Okay, yeah.
Yeah.
They they told me a bit about themselves.
Now the lesson will come.
Now this big lesson will finally come.
And the next thing you know, they say, Hey, thank you so much.
It was a pleasure to be here.
And that's it.
It's over.
Oh, my God, it's crazy when it happens.
Don't be one of those people.
Remember about this advice and use it in your own life.

--- Don't Let People Pull You In Their Frame ---

In this video, I'd like to share with you one of the biggest challenges that a lot of speakers experience
before they present.
And this is something that used to be very challenging for me.
And to this day it's pretty hard to navigate this dynamic and it's about people coming up to you right
before your presentation.
And it often happens, right?
You're about to get on a stage, maybe at a conference, perhaps in your company, and somebody comes
up to you, Hey, Jimmy, how are you doing?
I'm doing well.
How are you?
Oh, yeah.
You know, and then they get into some story about what happened to them or they talk to you about something
completely irrelevant.
You're about to present.
You are getting on a stage in 5 minutes from now and they are sharing some story with you.
Right.
Or maybe you are at a conference and you are about to get on a stage and a few minutes before somebody
comes up and says, Hey, Jimmy.
And these are real situations.
Hey, Jimmy, I've been watching your content for a very long time.
Let me ask you a question and then they ask you this really complicated question.
And you're about to get on a stage, you're about to give a 60 minute presentation, you want to focus,
and they out of nowhere fire up something in the lines of, hey, what do you think about the COVID
regulations?
Like, where did that come from?
I mean, I'm about to get on a stage and why am I talking about it?
Because if you are a beginner presenter, it may be very difficult to handle that dynamic.
I know that in the past it was very hard for me to be assertive and very often I allowed other people
to pull me into their frame.
Rather than maintaining my frame and composure, I would allow other people to pull me into their frame.
So rather than assertively stating, you know what?
What was your name, by the way?
Josh?
Josh, pleasure meeting you.
Listen, I have to be on a stage in 5 minutes.
I'd love to answer your question, but let's do it afterwards.
Does that sound fair?
Okay, perfect.
Hey, pleasure.
Right.
I couldn't do it back in the day.
I couldn't do it.
I felt this pressure of, well, I'm here for them.
Therefore, if they ask me something, if they want to interact, I have to be fully on board.
And it's not like that, right?
Just because someone is trying to pull you in their frame right before your presentation, you don't
necessarily have to say yes to it.
And I'm talking about it because a lot of people tell me, Jimmy, when those situations happen, I
don't know what to do.
I'm trying to focus.
My nerves are going crazy.
I know I'm I'm getting on a stage.
I don't feel comfortable about getting on a stage.
I want to get myself into my winter state.
Right.
I want to work on my on my overall state of mind.
And those people just keep talking to me.
Maybe it's your colleague.
Maybe it's not even a stranger, one of your colleagues.
Maybe it's your boss, right?
Maybe it's somebody who works with you in the company and they just talk to you about irrelevant things.
Maybe they ask you, Hey, so what's your plan for the weekend?
Or like, hey, by the way, we are thinking about going to a restaurant after this.
What do you think?
What do you think about that Italian place?
You know, a lot of people cannot read social dynamics, right?
A lot of people don't have enough empathy to put themselves in your shoes and to envision how it would
feel to be standing there right before a speaking gig or right before a workshop.
They just don't know how it feels.
They they assume, well, you are the presenter.
You must have everything handled.
You are always ready.
Even in the middle of the night you would be ready to present.
Therefore, no topic is off limits.
Right?
That's what people often think.
So again, what you want to do is you want to maintain your boundaries.
You want to be assertive, polite, yet assertive, and you want to make sure that those people don't
pull you into their frame.
So again, in those situations, when people talk to you before your presentation and you feel like
they are kind of invading your energy, you need some time for yourself.
Just be honest with them.
Just be polite, but be honest, be assertive and tell them, look, hey, Jon would be great to talk
to you, but I'm about to get on a stage.
I want to get myself into the right state of mind.
Can we talk about it later?
Awesome.
Thank you.
Right.
Someone else comes up to you.
Hey, may I ask you one question?
You know what?
I would love to.
What's your name?
Jenny.
Pleasure meeting you, Jimmy.
Listen, can we talk about it after I'm about to get on the stage right now?
Here's the thing.
Most people will get it.
When you do it this way.
Most people will understand and it's going to be a great lesson for them.
They're going to realize, wow, this person has a point.
What am I doing?
What am I doing coming up to this person right before their presentation?
Right.
So most people will understand and they will respect you more for being assertive.
All right.
People respect assertive people.
Now, there may be some individuals who will not get it.
I met those myself, right?
There are some people who I don't know.
They just have this sense of entitlement that they need to get whatever they want, whenever they want
it.
And they may act rude.
They may they may feel like, well, I deserve to get your time, but let me tell you this.
You shouldn't care about those people.
Don't care about those people.
If someone doesn't get it, it's their problem.
It's not your problem.
It's your responsibility to maintain your energy.
So then you can go out there on that stage in front of that group of people and give your best so you
can help all of those people.
All right.
That's your job.
And you've got to do anything in your power to make that happen.
And part of it is preserving your energy, maintaining your boundaries, and not allowing other people
to pull you into their frame.

--- Never Be Late ---

So this video will sound like a no brainer.
A lot of you may be thinking, okay, this is very simple.
Maybe it's too simple, but you would be surprised.
A lot of people forget about it and I used to forget about it myself as well.
So when you give a talk, when you give a workshop presentation or when you meet anybody for any important
reason could be negotiation, could be a job interview, whatever it is you want to make sure that you
arrive early.
Definitely don't want to be late and you don't want to be almost late.
So a lot of people, you know, give themselves a very small margin for error.
They arrive ten or 15 minutes before their presentation and they think, well, 10 minutes is enough.
But here's the thing.
When you know that you are on the way to the venue and you will have only 10 minutes before your presentation,
what do you realize?
It or not?
Subconsciously you are stressing out.
Part of you knows that if something goes wrong, if if there is a traffic jam, if something happens,
if maybe there was a last minute, the room change, you may have a problem.
You may not be able to get there on time and that causes extra stress.
The last thing you want when you go to a presentation is to have extra stress.
You are already stressed enough because you're going to be out there, you're going to be presenting.
And another thing is that and I mentioned this in other videos in this course is that whenever you can,
you want to make sure that you get familiar with the venue and with your audience.
You don't just want to arrive and suddenly jump into deep water or get in Mike and go after it.
There are some exceptions if you are Gary Vee or one of those characters who presented on thousands
of stages.
Maybe you can't do that right.
You arrive, you leave the car, you get in, get a mike, and you go after it and then you go to another
place.
The vast majority of people cannot do that.
What you want to do is you want to arrive early, you want to get familiar with the venue.
Ideally, you want to get close to the stage, even get on a stage before the event start.
So maybe in the break, right?
So you get familiar, how does it feel to be on a stage?
How does it feel to hold the microphone?
How does it feel to get all those lights in your eyes?
How does it feel to look at the entire crowd?
You want to get familiar with those types of feelings that you will get when you do those things.
And ideally, you want to talk to your audience, right?
I talked about it in one of the previous videos and another section, but you really want to get to
know your audience by doing that.
By talking to them, you'll make yourself feel more comfortable.
You will get in your talkative state, you know, you will feel more relaxed.
You feel like now you are in a crowd of friends, not just a crowd of strangers.
It makes all the difference.
So please never be late.
What I would say is, if you know that your presentation is at 2:00 pm, try to be there at least at
1:00 pm, be there an hour earlier.
Now, does it mean that you have to interact with people for that hour?
Of course not.
You can go in there, check everything, get on the stage, maybe test the microphone if it's possible,
talk to the organizer, talk to a few people, and then you can retreat either to the speakers room
or even to the restroom.
Right.
If if you can find a quiet corner, just go to the restroom, go to the cubicle cubicle, do some breathing
exercises, maybe do some gratitude.
Just relax a little bit by yourself.
You can do all of those things.
But one thing I can guarantee you is if you are late, you just increase the probability of something
going wrong.
Now, unfortunately, this happened to me in the past.
I made some really dumb decisions in my life and I remember one time I was presenting it was actually
at my value in Barcelona, this event organized by Mine Valley, and I remember that I was so relaxed,
I was so chilled, and I got to the venue.
I was maybe 5 minutes before my presentation and fortunately everything went well.
But I have to tell you, I wasn't considering this back then, but I realized afterwards, wow, if
there was a traffic jam, if something happened on the way, right, if for whatever reason I had some
logistical issue, those people would be waiting for me.
And then the awareness that I'm late for my own presentation and people are waiting for me, that would
definitely destroy my confidence, at least to some extent.
Right?
You show up, people are waiting for you.
You know that you are there for them, yet you are late.
It's not very good.
So obviously I learned my lesson.
And you know, nowadays whenever I have a speech, even if it's a virtual event, what I do is I check
the equipment, I triple check the WiFi.
I always make sure I have some backup system right.
Even if I have access to fiber optic connection, I want to have some 4G on standby in case something
happens.
I want to have all my chargers.
If I'm using my laptop, I'm going to still have my phone charger in case something happens to my laptop,
I can swiftly move into my phone.
I'm going to let everyone know in the flat or in the office.
Hey, please.
I'm in that room.
I'm doing a very important presentation.
Please don't disturb me.
I'm going to put my my phone on the flight mode.
You know what I'm saying here?
I'm basically doing my best to prevent any potential challenges from.
Happening.
And I have to say, it just makes me so much calmer and it adds to my confidence because I know that
I did my best to make sure that my presentation will be smooth.

--- How To Dramatically Improve Your Presentation Skills ---

One of the most common questions I get is, So, Jimmy, how can I improve my presentation?
What can I do to improve not just bit by bit, but to make those huge improvements?
So I let you go from here to here to there.
What can I do?
And what I'm going to share with you in this video will be powerful, is going to be powerful.
But also it may seem a bit daunting.
And the reason is that it's going to require some work and it will require you being completely honest
with yourself and looking back at your content.
So what do I mean by this?
Well, a lot of people, what they do is they give a presentation and then they move on.
Then they give another one and they move on.
They never really stop.
They never really ponder.
They never really reflect on what went well and what didn't go so well.
So I always recommend that whenever you give a presentation, you try to record it.
Ideally, you want to have a video.
If you can do it, you want to have a video camera.
Maybe the organizer is already filming it.
If that's not the case, you want to set up your own phone or camera and film the presentation.
Now I understand that in some cases it may not be possible.
Maybe, maybe you're presenting internally within your company and you are not meant to be recording
it, which I completely understand.
Or perhaps the reason is as simple as it stresses you out.
Just this idea that you will have a video camera or even your phone recording you, it may stress you
out.
And look, it's okay to admit that this is the reality.
I mean, a lot of people are scared of presenting.
You know, you are going out there.
You are already pushing yourself.
This already shows your courage.
Adding that extra element of a video camera may really freak you out.
I get it.
If that's the case, what you want to do is at least you want to record the audio of your presentation.
How do you do it?
Well, just put a phone next to you.
I just have a phone somewhere close by.
The quality of the audio doesn't have to be amazing.
It has to be good enough so you can hear the audio later on.
And then what you want to do is after the presentation, rather than succumb to that temptation of,
I know what it went, okay, let me just move on.
Let me not rediscover revisit what I did because it's too uncomfortable.
Let me just move on.
No, no.
You've got to take that little voice and squash it and throw it away.
And you have to push yourself to learn from your own mistakes, but also to learn from the things you've
done well.
And as you're presenting, whether it's a workshop, maybe it's a keynote presentation, perhaps you
are talking to your employees, whatever it is, there will be things that you did really well and there
will be mistakes that you've made.
It's inevitable.
We are all human.
No matter how good you become, you can always find something to improve, but also something you did
well.
So as you're watching that video of your presentation or listening to the audio, what I want you to
do is I want you to ask yourself a question.
First of all, let's start with the good days.
What did I do?
Well, what did I do?
Well, what are the bits and pieces of my presentation that did extremely well?
Maybe you you told a joke and it was spontaneous, but everyone laughed.
Awesome.
Write it down, write it down, listen to it again and try to determine what made it so funny.
Perhaps you share the story and everybody was tune student and wow, that's a great story.
Maybe you got a random ovation after a story that tells you a lot.
Perhaps you made a point and you notice that after you made that particular point, everybody just pulled
out their journals and they started writing something down, right?
So you want to think about those things you did well, because what's going to happen is once you have
those bits and pieces now, you can first of all figure out what made them so powerful.
But also you can reuse those content pieces later on in the future.
So for example, a lot of times when I present the presentation is recorded and if it's not, I always
have some type of audio recording or video recording.
Then I go back to those presentations and I reverse them or we listen to them.
And I had moments when I would share something that I didn't plan to share a spontaneous story or a
spontaneous joke.
Right before the presentation.
I even planned to make a joke.
But then I will notice something.
And the audience, I would make a joke and everyone would laugh.
Whenever I have a moment like this, I tried to get deep and ask myself, Why did it work?
What was it about that particular joke?
Why was it funny?
Was it just the content of what I said?
Was it the delivery?
Was it the timing?
Well, usually it's all of it, right?
Combined.
But I tried to dig in and then I try to replicate it next time I present.
If something worked once well, the chances are it's going to work again.
So now I say to myself, okay, since this worked last time, let me try to make it a bit better and
use it again.
And the same thing applies to stories.
There are certain stories that I shared that did extremely well, right?
People were really tuning in.
I had situations where midway through the presentation I would share a story and then make a point.
And suddenly everyone starts clapping.
And it's incredible when that happens, this spontaneous applause that tells you you are doing the right
job.
So rather than just forgetting about those moments and moving on, you want to learn from them and then
you want to replicate them and do them again.
So let's say that I'm given a really important keynote in front of a lot of people, or maybe I'm hired
by some corporate and they pay me a lot of money to do a presentation.
Of course I want to do my best.
So in order to do my best, rather than reinventing the wheel and building my presentation from scratch.
Of course I build the outline.
I build the basic stuff from scratch.
But then I look into my other presentations and I ask myself, okay, what are the things that worked
extremely well before?
What are the stories?
What are the case studies?
What are the jokes that worked extremely well?
And ask myself, which one of those bits and pieces could I possibly reuse in my new presentation?
Now, does it mean that I take and I copy everything?
Of course not.
I made a separate video about it.
I never just copy and paste.
Right.
But I like to learn from what worked in the past.
Why not?
Why reinvent the wheel and add some crazy situations?
For example, I like to present at Nomad Conference.
This conference is for digital nomads.
Now, I've been a nomad myself for almost ten years now, traveling the world full time while running
my businesses.
So Digital Nomad Movement is a really cool movement with some amazing people.
So I like to present on those types of conferences, and I remember that one time I shared a story and
I didn't plan to share it initially, but then I decided to give people a bit of a glimpse into how
I got started with my traveling.
And I told them, Listen, I didn't always have the money, right?
I remember when I was broke and I still traveled, right?
Not having money wasn't an excuse not not to travel.
So I remember one time I took €200, just €200, and I wanted to see how far is going to go.
So I decided to hitchhike across Europe only with that little amount of money.
Now I managed to go for over 3000 kilometers on €200.
And I remember when I was sharing that during my presentation on the slideshow, I showed my fellow
digital nomads a picture of me sitting in a tent on a beach in Italy, and there was this paper Ferrari
bag next to me.
Write a big Ferrari letters.
And at some point when I showed them this picture I mentioned, by the way, I know that you probably
are thinking so you traveled for over 3000 kilometers with €200 and you have a Ferrari back.
How does that even add up?
Like what's happening in there?
So I explained to them that the only reason I had the Ferrari back was because I went to the Ferrari
store and I told them I kind of talked my way into it.
I told them, Listen, my plastic bags got all broken up, I'm hitchhiking.
Would you mind giving me one of your paperbacks?
And they gave me this really nice red Ferrari paperback and I traveled with it.
And the reason I wanted that back was because I didn't have a place to stay.
I didn't have money to book hotels, right?
So I would go to five star hotels and I would tell them something in the lines of, Hi, my name is
Jim in the Rain.
I'm usually declined of your hotel, but you see, we came here just for one evening.
We have a flight late at night, so there is no point of getting any accommodation because we will go
out for dinner, we will go to party and then we will fly out.
Would you mind if we leave our bags with you for those couple of hours?
And guess what happened?
Well, inevitably, a lot of those hotel receptionists said, oh, certainly, sir, no problem.
Welcome back.
And they would basically take care of my bags while I was out there.
And of course, I didn't have to pay anything for it.
So when I shared that story, everyone started laughing.
I showed it.
But more compelling way time here.
But everyone started laughing and I didn't expect that.
I honestly didn't think it was a funny story, but way I shared it and considering the crowd, I was
sharing it with digital nomads.
Right?
A lot of those people can resonate.
A lot of those people always had this thirst for traveling and even not having enough money didn't stop
them from traveling so they could resonate.
They know how it feels when you want to go out there, you want to travel, but you don't even have
a money for the hotel and you have to find little hacks and tricks.
So so you kind of get by.
And that's why everyone started laughing, right?
And I was surprised.
And afterwards I rewatched that video from that presentation and I tried to identify why people laughed,
what made that story funny and compelling, right?
And later on I decided to reuse that same slide and that same story during a different presentation
also for digital nomads.
And guess what?
People started laughing again and I'm like, Wow, okay, clearly that wasn't an accident.
Clearly there is something about that.
That makes it compelling, that makes it funny, and I haven't used it for a while.
But I tell you what it is in my story bank.
I know that it works.
And in the future when I have to present in front of a bunch of digital nomads and guess what?
In the future, when I present in front of digital nomads, I can always choose to go back to my story
back and decide, You know what?
I'm going to use this story once again in order to create some laughter, in order to connect with my
audience.
Anyhow, this is just a little example.
The bottom line is I want you to think about this video in the context of your own life.
And I want you to learn from your own feedback, from your own presentations.
Don't just learn from the negative feedback, also learn from things that worked for you.
And when you combine both of those things, you will improve much faster.
Rather than making those little, little steps, you're going to take massive leaps to become a better
presenter.

--- Set a Goal With a Deadline: Why & How ---

This video is for those of you who don't have any presentation, workshop or talk pre scheduled.
Now I know that some of you you speak a lot, but you have to speak in your company.
Maybe you are an entrepreneur and from time to time you go to those networking events and you have to
speak up.
But I'm also aware that some of you don't have anything pre-scheduled.
You don't have a talk or a workshop in your calendar.
And the reason you're taking this course is because you just want to get better, right?
You want to get better.
Maybe you got it as a part of the Udemy for business subscription and your employer gave it to you and
said, Hey, take this course, this may be useful.
So you want to kind of learn in advance.
So, so we know in case you have to present in the future, we can use those tips and strategies and
techniques.
But what I encourage you to do is to pre comment, pre comment, pick some type of presentation, workshop,
whatever it is, set a deadline, commit to it fully and make it a reality.
Now you could use a service like Toastmasters, for example.
You could sign up to Toastmasters where you can essentially meet with other people and you can practice
your presentation skills now even if you are in a lockdown, because I don't know your specific situation,
I'm not sure when you are watching it and from which country.
But even if you are on a lockdown, there are events online, right?
There are opportunities to speak in front of people.
It could be as simple as if you have social media.
You could design a little presentation for your friends and family members.
Right.
And share something with them.
You could go to Toastmasters.
And again, if you if you're in a lockdown and you can't go there in person, you can't participate
in one of the virtual events.
And Toastmasters are great because the way it works is that it's a community of people who want to become
better presenters, right?
This is the goal that unifies everyone in that community.
Everyone wants to become a better presenter.
And a lot of people who go to Toastmasters are really struggling with presentation skills.
A lot of those people are publicly afraid of presenting.
And the point of that organization is that you help one another, you want to lift one another up.
So when someone is presenting, even if they are completely stressed out, everyone else is listening
and clapping and giving encouragement.
And I've seen some tremendous transformations.
I've seen people who, during their first talk, they could barely speak.
They would get in front of an audience and it would be something like this.
Hi, my name is Carlos.
I'm I'm a little bit stressed now because.
Here is my first presentation and I will talk like this.
Right.
And the next thing you know, five, six, seven weeks later, they get on a stage.
Hi, everyone.
My name is Carlos.
I'm here to talk to you about Bam.
Right.
It's incredible the type of transformation you can make.
Now, there are other organizations out there.
There are different portals online that you can use to make it happen.
You just have to put a little bit of effort to find those.
But one thing that I encourage you to do is to pre commit to something rather than saying to yourself,
you know, I'm just going to wait and one day I'm going to present and use those tools.
I want you to find something, put it on your calendar.
Pre comment, make it happen.
Whether it be scary, yeah, it will be scary to some extent, but I can guarantee you when you pre
comment and when you make it, when you become serious about it, once you make that commitment, you
set a deadline.
You will be watching those videos and doing all the exercises in a completely different manner.
Now it becomes real.
Now you are preparing for something real, right?
Something specific that's going to happen very soon and that's going to only improve your progress.
And once you give that talk or that dot dot workshop or once you do that life video on social media
or whatever it is, you will grow tremendously.
And then the next step is to pre commit to another thing and then another thing.
And it's about this process of constantly pushing your comfort zone bit by bit.
That's how you become an incredible presenter.
You don't become an incredible presenter just by watching videos, just by doing little exercises here
and there.
You become an excellent presenter by doing all of those things, but then applying them in real life
and then doing it over and over again.
So please go ahead.
Take my challenge.
I don't know where you're going to do it and how you're going to do it.
Which organisation or what's going to be your topic.
Please pre commit to something and make it happen.

--- What If Someone Asks You a Question You Don't Know The Answer To ---

So what if somebody asks you a question that you simply don't know the answer to?
Now, this is actually very simple from my point of view.
You should never try to pretend that you know the answer.
And this is one of the biggest mistakes that people make.
Even though they don't know the answer to the question, they will try to kind of be as their way through
the answer.
And people can see it.
People can sense it.
If somebody from the audience asks a question and you don't know the answer, but you're trying to come
up with some random answer, people will sense that you don't know what you are talking about, and
that's a problem for your credibility.
Because when people see that, even though you don't know what you are talking about, you are still
trying to pretend as if you know what you are talking about.
Again, you lose credibility.
You lose their trust.
And what I've learned from my experience is that it is actually very powerful to admit when you don't
know something or when you are not sure about something.
So when I had situations, when somebody asked me some elaborate question that I didn't have the answer
to, I would simply say, frankly, I'm not sure how to answer your question.
It's a tricky question.
There are different things we should take into account when approaching it.
And the moment you answered the question like this, you show to people that you are humble, right?
Just because you are on a stage doesn't mean that you have to know everything.
You don't perceive yourself to be the person who has answers to every single question.
You show your human side.
Now, one thing you could do is if you don't know the answer, you could say something like, Well,
frankly, I'm not sure how to answer your question is one of those tricky questions that I would need
to take more time to really ponder it.
But I'm curious, what do you think about it?
Right.
You could do that.
You could actually fire back and a genuine minor say, what do you what is your opinion on this?
Now, you could also say something in the lines of, again, thank you for your question.
I appreciate it.
It's a tricky question.
I'm not sure how to answer it right now.
I need to ponder about it a little bit more.
But you know what?
Let me get back to you on this question later on.
I need some time to think about it.
You could do that as well.
But again, don't try to pretend you know something that you don't know because it sends all the wrong
signals.

--- What If They Cut Down Your Presentation Time ---

Hey, Jimmy.
So what if they cut down my presentation time?
What should I do?
And this is a really interesting question because it actually does happen.
It happens from time to time, depending on a situation, on the environment.
There are situations when, for example, get 60 minutes to present or you get 40 minutes to present.
And then literally on the same day, or even worse, an hour before the presentation or 20 minutes before
the presentation, the host comes up to you and says, Listen, we are running short on time and could
you please shorten your presentation?
Can you do 40 minutes instead of 60 minutes?
Or in extreme cases they may even ask you, can you have your presentation right?
I hope this doesn't happen to you.
It's not a nice situation to be in, but there's a way to go around it and it all comes down to your
preparation, right?
So a lot of people make a mistake of creating either a full script for the entire presentation, trying
to memorize everything bit by bit, or go in the opposite direction and not preparing enough.
And these are two extremes, right?
You either wing it and we talked about winging it and why it's bad or you almost I don't want to say
overprepared, but you do it in the wrong way and you try to have a word by word script for everything
to come.
Right.
If you do those things, you don't have a lot of flexibility.
If someone shortens your presentation, you don't really know what to do.
Now, if you take into account all the strategies, all the tools, all the tips we talked about in
this course, you will be fine.
Because think about it, if you start with the end result in mind, if you reverse engineer the process
and you think about the objectives for your audience, of course, first of all, defining who is your
audience, then you do your brainstorming, then you create a really compelling outline.
And then based on that all time, you create different content pieces and you add various stories,
and then you practice everything not just by reading, but also out loud, actually practicing and doing
all of those things that we've done before in this course.
Well, you will know your presentation very well.
And when you know your presentation very well, you know roughly how long each part will take.
You know that this one particular story will take roughly 5 minutes.
And then to make a point based on that story, you need another 2 minutes.
You will know that your intro will roughly take 10 minutes, you will know those things, and that's
going to allow you to very quickly decide how you will shorten your presentation.
For example, you can ask yourself, Well, which store story is least relevant to this audience, right?
Maybe you can remove the entire story from the presentation.
Perhaps you can shorten the introduction.
Maybe initially you are planning to talk about yourself for 7 minutes.
Well, if you have less time now, we have to decide what is more important.
The points you're going to make in the body of your presentation or you fully introducing yourself.
You may realize that you know what?
People don't have to know my entire story.
Maybe let let me make it short.
Let me take those 7 minutes and turn them into one and tell people the most important things, the most
important credibility factors about yourself and perhaps share just one vulnerable, super short story
so people know that you are a human being, right?
There are different ways to go about it.
But again, it all comes down to your preparation.
Now, typically what I like to do when I go to venues where I know there is a risk that they will shorten,
my presentation is I like to break down my outline and I like to ask myself, okay, so what would I
do if suddenly the organizer cuts down my presentation time by 10 minutes?
What would I get rid of?
How would I approach this situation?
And then I look at my presentation and I decide, okay, this story is important but is not as important
as the other story.
I could technically remove this.
This point I'm making, I could remove that.
Okay, what about this thing?
I could shorten that other point.
Then ask myself another question.
What if the organizer cut my presentation short by 25 minutes?
What would I do then?
Hmm?
Well, what else could I could I remove?
Well, perhaps the ending.
Maybe I could shorten the ending.
Oh, there is an exercise I'm doing with the audience.
I don't think I would have the time to do that particular exercise and engaging the audience.
Let's remove that.
So you see what I'm doing here?
Rather than waiting for the worst case scenario and not being prepared, I'm already prepping myself
with Plan B and Plan C, and if you prepare yourself like this, no matter what happens, you will be
fine.
If the organizer tells you, Hey, can you cut your presentation by 15 minutes?
No problem.
Are you sure?
No problem.
You go to your plan B, if the host tells you, Listen, I'm really sorry we are running late, can
you cut your presentation by 25 minutes again?
No problem.
You go into your plan C.
So what I'm trying to say here is that it all comes down to your preparation.
If you prep for the worst case scenarios, if you have a plan A, plan B, plan C and maybe even plan
D, it actually doesn't take that much time to think about those plans, but it's going to.
Save you a lot of headache in case one of those situations actually emerges.

--- Always Stay Ready for Presentation Opportunities ---

This video can make a huge difference in your career if you take it very seriously.
So I'm sure you've seen situations when you went to a conference or you went to some type of gathering
and the presenter got sick, or maybe another presenter didn't make it on time.
Or perhaps a host has some type of issue and they needed a replacement.
Now those situations happen.
They don't happen a lot, but they happen from time to time.
And this is your opportunity to become a replacement.
Now, I'm not saying that you'll be able to make it happen every single time, but one thing I know
for sure is that if you are not prepared for those opportunities, even if they emerge well, you are
not ready.
You cannot take advantage of them.
So what I recommend you to do, and this is this is so powerful and so very few people think about it,
is whenever you go to any gathering, any conference, right.
Any type of meet up with presenters, when you are not presenting, always prepare some type of presentation,
always have something ready.
Now, I'm not saying that you should prep a customized presentation for every single meetup you go to.
You definitely don't want to do that, right?
But what you want to do is you want to have at least something prepped, maybe one of your existing
presentations.
You want to have a little practice before you're going to have your keynote or PowerPoint slides loaded
up on your USB stick.
So in case someone gets sick, maybe someone is late, perhaps someone has an issue and cannot get on
a stage.
The organizer doesn't know how to fill that spot.
Now you can either be like everyone else and just sitting there in the audience and waiting and hoping,
or you can become a leader and you can walk up to the organizer and say, Hey, listen, my name is
Jimmy Lorraine.
This is what I do.
This is a USB stick with my presentation.
I've given this presentation a bunch of times.
It's about topic X, Y and Z.
I'm an express presenter and I'm happy to help you out.
Get on a stage and captivate the audience right now.
I know you have a problem with the speaker.
I'm happy to do it right.
Obviously, every situation is different.
This is just an example of how you could approach it.
But let me tell you, in some cases, if they don't know you, they still wouldn't get you on a stage.
But there are cases where the organizer is desperate.
Right.
The speaker hasn't arrived.
There is an issue.
They need somebody to cover that speaker.
And here we go.
Here you are.
You came in with this confident approach.
You offer your help.
You have your slides on the USB stick.
You claim you've done this before.
You look sound as a professional, right?
It's very compelling.
It's very hard to to say no to something like this.
And then if that actually happens, if you get an opportunity to get on a stage instead of that, that
presenter who didn't make it.
Wow, it's tremendous.
It can be can be a game changer for your career because, first of all, you show to the organizer and
everyone else that you are a pro, that you are really great at what you do, that you have the courage
right to to go on stage, on almost no notice and deliver a presentation.
It's incredible.
And on top of that, perhaps normally it's very hard to get on that stage, right?
Maybe the barrier of entry is super, super high.
But because of the circumstances, well, you manage to kind of slide in.
And guess what?
You will probably not go back to the status quo after that presentation.
You elevate your status and everyone recognizes you as the type of person who is willing and who is
capable of doing things like this.
It is tremendous.
And I have to say, you know, whenever I go to whenever I go to events, all types of presentations,
if I'm not a speaker, if I'm just swinging by maybe last minute, someone invited me and I go in there,
I always have this this thing at the back of my head.
I know it sounds weird, but obviously I want everyone to do their best.
But but I have to say that human part of me hopes that somebody will not show up, right?
That part of me hopes that someone will not make it, that someone's flight got canceled and they have
to fill that spot.
Because I know that whenever that's the case, I'm going to be the person to walk up to the organizer
and say, listen, I'm ready.
This is who I am.
This is what I do.
These are the things that I can help you with, and I know I can lock it in.
But the problem is when, you know you could technically do it and then the opportunity shows up and
you kind of take advantage of it because you haven't done the homework because you haven't prepared.
Now, does it mean that you should always prepare custom presentations for every single conference you
go to, even as an attendee?
No, it's not about that, right?
That that would be a bit overboard.
But what you want to do is you always want to have at least some presentation fresh in your mind if
you are going to a conference about, let's say, I don't know, conference about.
Business Analytics.
Let's say that's your space and you have a really cool angle.
Well, you may want to refresh one of your older presentations and just spend 15 minutes asking yourself,
okay, if somebody got sick and if I were to get to the stage, what could I do?
How could I customize it and then just load up those slides on your USB stick and just be ready?
And most probably you won't have that opportunity.
In most cases, everything goes smoothly, but if that one situation happens when they need an extra
speaker, you are ready to embrace that opportunity.

--- What If You Start Losing Your Audience ---

So what do you do when you start losing your audience?
Now, first of all, to avoid that situation from happening, I really recommend that you go back and
you watch the delivery section.
I'm talking to you about the various things you can do to fully engage your audience.
Right?
Also, the body language section is very important because just by improving your body language, you'll
be more likely to keep your audience engaged.
Well, look, even this those situations happen even to the best of us.
Sometimes we are on a stage we are presenting, and there is a point where we start losing our audience.
Now, what are some of the things you could do when it happens?
Well, you definitely want to break their pattern, right?
You want to break the flow a little bit.
If you keep talking about something and the energy is going down and people start falling asleep, what
you want to do is, for example, you can make a pause.
You can pause.
And just wait for a few seconds.
And then keep talking and I can guarantee you make a pass.
Even people who are checking their phones now, they are paying attention.
Well, what's happening?
What's happening?
Why did that person stop?
What's happening?
You have their attention back and think about it.
I'm sure you've seen presentations like this when the presenter talks and talks and talks and then.
There's that pause.
What's going on.
Now we have their attention.
Now we can keep going.
Right.
But when you keep going, keep going with high energy.
Right?
Remember about those body language tips?
Open up.
Right.
Get closer to your audience.
If you've been on a stage constantly walking from left to right, well, maybe now go a bit more to
the front right and maintain direct eye contact with them.
Another thing you can do is you can ask them a question.
You can ask them a question.
And you don't necessarily need an answer from them.
But you could have a few questions prepared before the presentation for those types of situations.
And if you feel like your audience is losing their interest, at some point you can say.
Let me ask you a very important question, and then you pause and then ask them that question and you
tell them, I want you to really think about it right now.
And then again, you pause and then go back into the presentation.
Now, speaking of questions, another great thing you can do is when you ask them a question, you can
actually find a volunteer to share the answer with everyone else.
And it's going to be really powerful because if you've been talking for a long time, say half an hour,
40, 50 minutes, people are used to your voice.
And now that you are bringing fresh blood on board, people are curious, who is that person?
What will they have to say?
Will they be confident?
Will they be stressed out?
Maybe they will say something that's a bit controversial.
Right.
What's going to happen?
People are curious.
So when you ask that question, you can look at the audience and say, and by the way, I would love
to take half a minute to hear from a volunteer.
What do you think about this?
What is your answer?
Raise your hand if you would like to share something.
And then some people raise their hands and say, hey, can we have a mic runner to give the mic to that
person and ask them what is their take on whatever it is that you were talking about?
And this can really bring more energy to the presentation because that person may say something that's
really interesting.
You can build up on that and then you can continue your presentation.
One thing is for certain you will break people's pattern if they're losing attention, if they're losing
their interest in your presentation now, suddenly, bam, you brought a new person on board.
You will regain that energy.
You thank that person after they share whatever they want to share.
You encourage everyone from the audience to give them a round of applause.
Hey, thank you so much.
What is your name?
Judi.
Hey, everyone.
Round of applause for Judi.
Thank you for sharing.
I appreciate you.
And guess what's happening now.
Everyone is clapping.
They are clapping.
They are moving their bodies.
They feel more energetic.
Right.
But also subconsciously.
Right.
This is a really interesting trick.
They're clapping and they feel like they are clapping not just for Judi, but they are clapping for
you.
There is this perception that, oh, there is a person on a stage and everyone is clapping.
Well, clearly there's a reason for it, so you also get extra value from it.
So now that Judi or whoever the volunteer is, sits down, you continue your presentation with this
new level of energy.
Another thing you could do, and this has to do with a bit of an audience interaction, is when you
start losing interest, you can tell people, Hey, I want you to think about something and now I want
you to take half a minute to share your answer or your perspective with the person sitting next to you.
Now, here is a disclaimer.
I talked about it a little bit in the delivery section.
The disclaimer is that you have to be very careful not to go overboard.
Sometimes when you give too much power to your audience, it's hard to take that power back.
If you tell people, Hey, you know, share with your partner, go ahead and do it.
So the lead, the room gets loud.
And you may find that when you tell people OC, OC, hey, come back.
Okay, let's keep going.
You may realize that half of the room keeps talking and the last thing you want you want to do is to
shout.
So you have to be very clear about the rules.
So if you want to engage people like this, if you want people to talk to one another, you tell them
something.
The lines of, look, we don't have that much time left, but I feel like it's going to be very valuable
if you take 20 seconds, maybe 30 seconds per person to share your perspective with someone sitting
next to you.
So let's do it.
And the moment I clap three times, let's start getting back into the presentation, right?
So this is just one way to do it.
You can do it in a variety of ways, whatever works for you, but you have to set some type of a set
of rules so people know when to get back into the presentation.
And again, engaging your audience in this way will increase that energy that you've been losing.
So anyhow, I hope that this is helpful.
These are just some of the tips and let's keep going with the remaining of the section.

--- What If Equipment Malfunctions ---

Hey, Jimmy.
So what do I do when my equipment malfunctions?
That's a really interesting question.
And this is something that happens from time to time.
I genuinely hope it is not going to happen to you.
But it is important to be prepped mentally in case that situation emerges.
I had a bunch of situations in my life, so I'm going to share with you a few of those because they're
really interesting.
For example, one time I was presenting on this stage where the audience was super narrow and long,
so it was one of those weird rooms where you have a stage and then you see the audience really far off.
The room wasn't very wide, but it was very long, and because of that there was a tremendous echo.
So I remember I got on that stage and I start speaking and it's literally like this one, one, one,
two, two, two.
Hi.
Hi, my, my, my name, name naming.
That's kind of how I heard it.
I talked about it later on with the audience and I asked them, Hey, did you hear the echo?
And everyone said, no, there was no echo.
The audio was perfect, but I as a speaker, I heard the echo because the sound was just hitting off
the wall, coming back to me so literally.
Imagine trying to give a presentation like, hi, hi.
Well, welcome, everybody.
It's crazy, crazy.
Very hard to focus.
I had another situation when the mic stopped working.
The mic just completely stopped working, right?
I had presentations where I would get on a stage and it was one of those open stages and another part
of the room was extremely loud and there's someone having an argument with someone else.
So I've been in a lot of weird situations.
So how do you handle those situations?
Well, what I learned over the years is that the best response is always to be a human.
Always be a human.
Okay, acknowledge what's happening.
Don't pretend that everything is fine.
So if you know some people are loud over there, people are arguing something crazy is happening and
you are getting stressed out, you are getting tense.
You cannot focus.
You may try to run for your presentation pretending not nothing is happening.
In the meantime, people are kind of looking there, Well, what's happening there?
You pretend nothing is happening.
There is this disconnect between you and the situation and the audience.
It almost feels like you are not a human.
You are just some machine, some AI invention.
Put on a stage to deliver one set presentation without acknowledging what's happening.
You don't want to do that.
You actually want to acknowledge what's happening, right?
You could do it in a funny way, right?
It's all up to you.
It depends on your personal style in the situation, but you won't acknowledge it now if your microphone
stops working.
And this happened to me, for example, happened to me in Japan.
Right.
I was given this huge keynote, 1000 people in the audience.
I'm getting on a stage.
I'm getting my introduction.
I had my translator there as well because I was speaking English and she was translating to Japanese.
And right at the beginning, you know, I look at everyone, I'm like, Konichiwa, very happy to be
here.
And I start talking and I'm like, Something's wrong.
The mic is not working right, and I realize no one can really hear me.
But Japanese people are very polite, so they just keep standing there, literally standing and just
just waiting.
So I go to the side of the stage and they are trying to fix my mic.
And as they're trying to fix my mic, obviously all the eyes are on me, the cameras are rolling and
everyone is standing right.
Different parts of the world would be different, right?
People would sit down and just wait or maybe make some comments.
All those Japanese people were standing there extremely polite.
I love that culture, by the way, and at some point I figured, okay, I can wait for another couple
of minutes, maybe even longer, to fix the mic and we can be all standing in this awkward silence,
or I can just acknowledge the situation and do something about it.
So I told the translator, Hey, give me your mic for a moment right here.
Mike was working.
I took the microphone as they're trying to wire me in and unbuttoning my my shirt and trying to put
the wire underneath.
And I'm like, Hey, everyone, listen, this is real life.
This is what sometimes happens.
As she translates and I take the microphone again, I'm like, since today we're going to be talking
about entrepreneurship and setting up your own business.
Well, these are exactly the things that will happen as you are setting your business.
So she's translating and then I continue.
Things will never go as you plan them.
And I just kept going and connecting with my audience.
That's somebody I told them, by the way, I noticed you are still standing.
I appreciate it, but you can sit down.
And then eventually after a couple of minutes, they fixed the mic.
I went to the front.
We all had a nice laugh about it, but after that presentation I talked to a lot of people and they
gave me the feedback, right?
They told me, Wow, I was so impressed the way you handled it, you're better than getting stressed
out or angry.
You were just laughing about it.
And you you kind of took the opportunity to connect with us through that experience and to turn it into
a lesson.
And I feel like that's the real power when something like.
This happens.
You just.
You just want to use it, for example.
Two years ago, I went to Mine Valley Life Conference.
It happened in L.A..
Maybe you're familiar with a guy called Jim Kwik.
Right.
So Jim Kwik is teaching super learning.
He's actually pretty famous now.
He's my fellow Mind Valley author, and he was given a presentation and I don't remember how many people
we had, but we had at least 1000 people in the room.
Right.
A lot of people.
And at some point there was a technical issue and the microphone went off and the lights went off.
Right.
And guess what?
He kept talking.
He acknowledged the situation and he kept talking.
And he also acknowledged the fact that in the past he used to be afraid of speaking up and, you know,
and he had all of those demons and he had to overcome that.
And he just kept talking.
At some point, the electricity came back on and the mike started working again and his slides were
visible.
But people really connected with that because we could see him as a human being, right?
Not not the guy who trains all the celebrities and the guy who is making a killing and going on all
of those podcasts and TV shows.
But we saw him for a human being that he is right.
He managed to connect with the audience rather than getting -- off rather than saying, okay, it's
not working.
Well, let me wait until until we can actually do this presentation.
He just kept going.
Everyone loved that.
Okay, so.
So remember that it's your common humanity that connects you with your audience.
And whenever an unexpected situation happens, whenever equipment malfunctions, your slides stop working.
Or maybe you want to take a sip of water and you spill it on yourself.
When you are on a stage, the last thing you want to do is to be serious about it.
No, you want to be human.
You want to acknowledge what's happening, you want to laugh at yourself, and this will bond you with
your audience.
It's one of those counterintuitive things, but if you do it well, sometimes having an issue during
your presentation can actually help you to make your presentation even better.

--- How To Introduce Yourself In a Speech ---

One of the most common questions that people ask me is Jimmy.
So how do I introduce myself in a speech or in a workshop?
You always say that I have to make it about my audience.
I shouldn't talk too much about myself, but how do I introduce myself?
And this question is very good, right?
It's a very important question to ask yourself, because, again, the last thing you want to do is
to talk about yourself for the sake of it and then showing off without connecting it to your audience.
So let me tell you how I do it, how I approach the situation.
And and this has been working tremendously well.
So whenever I do my introduction, I like to, first of all, connect it to the audience or to the topic
of the presentation or both.
And I like to mix credibility with vulnerability, credibility with vulnerability.
And when I say vulnerability, I want to make it authentic.
So rather than just telling people, Hey, I'm amazing, I've done this and I've done that, and look,
I've done even this.
If I do it this way, I'm not going to connect with them.
I'm going to seem like a showoff, so I definitely want to avoid that.
So what I want to do instead is I want to give them some credibility factors.
I definitely have to let my audience know why they should listen to me.
Why am I qualified to talk about what I'm talking about?
But in order to maintain a healthy balance of credibility, but also the humble energy, I want to add
some some vulnerability on the other side.
Authentic vulnerability.
Right.
I want to show my human side.
So, for example, you know, often my introduction goes something like this.
I tell people, look, you know, nowadays I do a variety of things I've been traveling the world for
for the last 8 to 9 years, full time while running different businesses.
I'll be doing X, Y and Z, and then I give them some credibility factors, right?
How many people I teach, what I've been up to, but I make it fairly short.
And then I ask something in the lines of However, if somebody told me back in the day that one day
I would live the life I live now, I wouldn't have believed.
And the reason is that and then I, I tell them about some of the things that happened to me in the
past.
I tell them about the fact that I grew up in post-communist Poland, that I had to teach myself English.
Right?
I talk about the fact that I didn't come from money.
I had to make my own money, that I'm self-made.
I talk about the fact that at some point I worked for a corporation in London and I realized it wasn't
for me.
So I mix my credibility factors with vulnerability.
And this way what happens is, on the one hand, when the audience is listening to me, they are thinking,
okay, this guy, Jimmy, he's worth listening to.
He has been doing some incredible things in his life, but he's also humble.
And he also shows to me that that he's a human being.
He shows that that that human part of him.
And when you add those two things, you have this really amazing cocktail that that makes you and your
presentation compelling.
Right?
On the one hand, people see, okay, this person is trustworthy and credible.
On the other hand, they see that person is humble and that person is just a human being.
When you mix those things up, wow, it just gives you this amazing combination.
And I really encourage you that you do it.
For example, let's say that you are a very technical person.
For instance, let's say that you are building websites, you are amazing at it and you're delivering
a presentation.
You may be wondering, okay, Jimmy, so how can I possibly use credibility and mix it up with authentic
vulnerability?
How can I possibly do it?
Well, definitely.
How you don't want to do it is to show off from the beginning till the end.
Hey, my name is Johnny.
No, I.
I graduated from Cambridge and then I moved to the US and I went to Harvard briefly.
But then I actually went to MIT to do X, Y and Z.
And then after graduating from MIT, I actually stayed there teaching this and that and then I, you
know, just keep going.
And this entire spiel of how amazing you are, why you are qualified, and then getting right into your
topic, you don't want to do it.
All right.
For one, you may intimidate your audience.
Let me think.
Well, I kind of resonate with this person.
This person is clearly too smart for me, right?
That's one.
Secondly, you don't seem very humble, but what you could do is you do your little intro, you tell
people why you are qualified, but then you could mention one of your challenges.
But you could say something in the lines of, Look, when I went to MIT for the first time, I remember
that during the first year I literally thought that I wouldn't be able to graduate.
Like all this stuff they were teaching seemed too difficult, it seems, seemed overwhelming, insurmountable.
And over time I realized that there are certain systems and hacks that I could use to learn faster.
But initially it was it was really terrifying.
Right.
And so this is how you show your human side, right?
There are different ways to do it.
But but when you do it this way, now, your audience is looking at you thinking, wow, this person
went to came.
And and is doing all of those incredible things.
But he or she also admitted that they didn't feel that comfortable right from the beginning.
Right.
So that's one way to do it.
So let's talk about another example.
Let's say that you are one of the leaders in your company.
For instance, you are a VP of a department.
You've got eight people underneath you, right?
Eight people that you manage.
And let's say that you are delivering a presentation where you are talking about some of the goals that
you have as a company, as a department for the next 12 months.
Now, obviously, people already know you.
They know who you are.
Right.
So rather than boasting about yourself and kind of restating why you are so amazing and that you are
the VP and you accomplished X, Y and Z, they already know that.
So you could mention something.
But but in order to connect with your people, you could focus on that vulnerability part and you could
share a little story of how you got started and how you really struggled with with managing people and
taking responsibility.
Right.
Maybe maybe that's the case with you and how you learned how to do it.
Maybe you could speak about the fact that you got rejected from six different job interviews.
Right.
And you stopped believing in yourself at some point.
But eventually you kept pushing and you got accepted to this company and you build yourself up.
Now, I could give you thousands of different examples, but the point is very simple.
Whenever you mix this credibility with authentic vulnerability, you you create something that is irresistible,
right?
You create a situation where people want to connect with you on a human level, but they also respect
you for what you accomplish.
And they want to listen.

--- How To Get Booked ---

Okay.
So how can you get booked at different conferences and do speeches for new audiences?
Well, the different things you could talk about, what I feel like the most important thing you can
do and you should do is to film your presentation now.
We spoke before about the importance of filming your presentation, to get feedback, to figure out
what you did well and what you didn't do very well so we can learn from your own mistakes and also from
the things that worked out fine for you.
But you should also film your presentation, or at least take pictures of your presentation, because
later on when you talk to different conference organizers or even within your company, when you talk
to maybe the HR department is organizing some in company conference and they are looking for speakers.
Well, if you have experience presenting and you can prove it, you'll be more likely to get on that
stage because think about it, what is the biggest fear of any conference organizer, whether it's a
smaller workshop or a massive, massive event?
Well, the biggest fear is that there are speakers will not do a good job.
And even bigger fear is.
So what's going to happen if I get a speaker who, you know, loses their composure?
We mention that speaker gets on a stage and they get a panic attack and they run away.
Right.
So organizers want to make sure that when they recruit speakers, they get people who are able to get
out there in front of people and present in a confident and captivating and charismatic way.
How do they know it?
Do they know just because the speaker seems confident?
Not really.
They want proof.
Now, there are situations where you will talk to the organizer and you know there is a trust developed
or maybe you know them from before and they will give you a shot.
But in most cases, if somebody doesn't know you, they want just trust in your word.
They will want to see some type of proof.
Right.
So how do you get that proof?
Well, you get it by filming your presentation and you would be surprised.
You know, you don't actually have to have the full presentation filmed.
Just having some clips of you on a stage can help you tremendously.
So, for example, let's say that you are at Toastmasters delivering a presentation.
It's not a very important presentation.
You're just practicing.
But if you have a video of that, what you can do is you can find the best part of that presentation,
maybe a part when you finish sharing a story and everyone starts laughing.
Right?
Or maybe a part where your body language is particularly captivating and confident.
Maybe you just made a pause and you move from one side of the room to the other and you open up and
everyone is engaging.
And you can pick that little part, those 10 seconds or 15 seconds, and you can get that little clip,
put it on your phone.
And when you talk to different organizers, you show it to them.
You say, hey, by the way, this is me.
I recently gave that presentation.
Just so you have an idea how I present myself on a stage, and even that ten or 15/2 clip will say so
much more than anything else that you would say verbally, right?
Because it's a living proof that you were in front of an audience and you delivered.
Now, if you want to take it to the next level, you want to create a mini trailer for yourself.
And I say Mini because initially you will not have a lot of content.
But obviously the more presentations you give, the more presentations you film, the more content you
will have.
And it's actually very easy nowadays to take some of those clips, put them together, add some music
and have a little speakers reel, right?
If you are a beginner presenter, your reel may be only ten or 15 seconds, right?
The best clips from various presentations.
But when you have something like this, it gives you so much power because let's say even within your
company, if the HR department is looking for the next presenter and let's say that you want to become
a leader in your company, right?
Maybe you want to advance.
You want to be the new VP of a department, and you're trying to get there and you want to showcase
leadership abilities.
And you know that by presenting, you will get there faster.
Well, obviously, it's a big deal for you.
You want to present, but let's say other people also want to present.
So now when you go to the HR and you say something, lines of, look, I know you have this opportunity
to present.
I've been thinking about it.
I really believe that I can contribute a lot of value, especially when it comes to X, Y and Z.
And you know what?
I do have experience.
In fact, here is a 15/2, just a short, short reel.
So you see how I present myself on a stage and you see visually you see that I have experience and you
show it to them and you have bam, bam, bam.
A couple of clips with some music in the background.
Now they know for a fact that you are not just talking, you are not offering to do this because you
want to get something for yourself and you are not actually sure if you can deliver.
Now, they can visually see that we can.
Probably deliver.
I mean, otherwise you wouldn't be on those other stages and those other public speaking situations.
So creating a real makes sense.
Now, again, from the very beginning, you want to be able to have that because you have to build the
DOP.
So start with filming your presentations, start with short clips, and then eventually over time,
add them up into a little speakers reel.
And the more you present, the more footage you will have, the more footage you can use to showcase
to organizers of various conferences.
Why you should be on a stage.

--- How To Increase the Probability of Success ---

A lot of people ask me, So, Jimmy, how can I increase the chances of success?
Right from the beginning of my presentation, are there any hacks that I can use in order to increase
the probability that my presentation will go very well?
All right.
So so here's one thing I want to share with you.
And this is something I've been doing for many years now, and it works magic.
And this won't work every single time.
It depends on the format of your presentation.
But I have to say, most of the times you can use it.
So when you start your presentation, what I like to do, especially if I mean it, if I really mean
it, is I like to take some time to give the props to the organizers and to the audience.
So, for example, if I'm keynoting a long conference, let's say it's 6 p.m., I'm doing the last presentation
and people have been in that room for the last eight or 9 hours.
What I'd like to do is, first of all, I'd like to thank the organizers and I ask everyone for a big
round of applause.
Right.
I may say something.
Lines of, wow, what a great energy here.
You know, this has been an incredible event.
And first of all, I just want to say massive thanks to the organizers for making it happen, for bringing
everyone together.
Big round of applause for the organizers.
And then everyone is clapping because what as they are clapping, you know, they feel better.
Again, they are increasing their energy.
And because I'm on a stage, there is this feeling that they are clapping for me.
So what happens is my brain doesn't really recognize that they are clapping for the organizers.
Subconsciously, I have a feeling that everyone is clapping and cheering for me, which fuels me with
extra energy and confidence.
And also the audience has a feeling that, well, I'm on a stage and they're clapping.
I guess I did something.
Well, the organizers feel amazing because I give them some props and a lot of people forget about the
hosts and organizers, right?
They just focus on the speakers.
So so that's great.
Right?
It's a win win situation.
And then sometimes what I do is I actually tell the audience, listen and huge round of applause for
everyone who is still here.
You know, some people already left, but.
But you stuck around till the end of this conference.
That's awesome.
Hey, let's get a big round of applause.
So why is this powerful?
Well, when you do this again, you know, you give props to other people.
You take away all that focus from yourself.
You put focus on other people.
You increase the overall energy in the room.
And also you feel more confident because of all of that applause that you are pretty much getting from
the beginning.
Right?
So now it's easier to delve into your presentation.
So this is just a little hack, but I like to use it because there's just so many different benefits
and you get those benefits pretty much right in the first 20 seconds of your presentation.

--- Camera is not Your Enemy. It’s your Friend ---

So first of all, let's talk about the fundamental mindset.
So the camera is not your enemy.
The camera can be your best friend.
And the reason I'm talking about it here is because a lot of people have this misconception that that
little lens over there, that staring at them is their enemy.
So many of us are afraid to be in front of a camera.
And as I mentioned in the introduction, I met a lot of CEOs and, you know, people with a lot of success
who crumble in front of the camera.
And on the one hand, it is normal.
It's hardwired.
We are afraid of rejection.
We have this feeling that know because we are sitting in front of a camera because it's filming us.
It will be there forever.
Right.
And it's a very daunting feeling sometimes.
But at the same time, when you really dig into it and you break it down, you will realize that.
Hold on a second.
You have full control when you are filming something with a camera or with your phone, you have full
control.
What's going to go out there and what's going to be deleted?
It's just we forget about it.
And very often when we get in front of that camera lens, we feel this indescribable pressure of trying
to be at our best, trying to be almost perfect.
And that causes performance anxiety.
Right.
And we keep questioning ourselves.
And the moment you want to open your mouth, you have like those little voices in your head saying,
hey, are you saying the right thing?
Are you sure you want to say what you're about to say?
Do you look good enough?
Do you sound good enough?
And because we hear all of those voices, it's pretty hard to focus when you hear those voices.
So one of the best ways to go about it is to realize, and I'm telling you this, because even if you
know about it, it's important to keep reminding yourself of it.
You have to remind yourself that camera can be your best friend, not your enemy is just about your
mindset.
So right now I'm filming this, I feel very comfortable, as you can probably see, right?
You can probably see actually feel amazing how to consult and call before this when really?
Well, I'm in my zone and I don't worry about potential rejection and failure.
I don't worry that some of you may see this and say, well, Jimmy doesn't look that good in front of
the camera.
It's maybe his shirt is not ironed properly or whatever it is.
I don't worry about it because I know that if I'm satisfied with the result, I have my video makers
here, you know, a really cool guy named Leekie is sitting over there behind the slider.
And, hey, if he tells me, Jimmy, you know what?
I think you messed up here.
I think you should do it differently.
Cool.
I can do it differently.
But as long as we are happy, we will release it to the public.
But just this awareness that we have all the power, right?
We can decide whether we will release those videos or not.
That just fills me with even extra confidence so I can play around.
I can really, truly be myself.
And I want you to feel like this.
And this is the difference between regular presenting and video presenting, right?
It actually never ceases to amaze me that most people, based on my experience, are more afraid of
video presenting than regular presenting.
And I feel, again, it has to do with this mindset of, well, what?
I'm on a video camera or even on a phone that's going to be there forever.
Right.
It's it's being recorded.
What if it's going to haunt me five or ten years from now?
But but again, once you realize that when you present in regular life and you're doing it life, you
can't really go back.
You can't make a mistake and say, let's rewind.
Going back 30 seconds, you cannot do it.
Well, you can do it when you are presenting in front of a video camera.
So keep it in mind and just that awareness will make you feel more comfortable and more confident.

--- On-camera Eye Contact ---

Let's talk a little bit about eye contact, because eye contact is important, especially when you are
presenting in front of a video camera.
Now, some of you may be confused.
Human eye contact.
I'm not looking at anyone.
I'm looking at a lens.
What are you even talking about?
But here's the thing.
Even though as you are filming, it may feel a bit strange, may feel a bit awkward and uncomfortable
because you're looking at that black lens in front of you.
In reality, when people are watching your videos, they have a feeling that you are looking at them.
So right now, as you're watching this particular video, you have a perception that I'm looking right
into your eyes.
I'm looking right at the lens.
I'm not talking to you looking at some notes over there.
Right.
Some people use teleprompters.
I never use them.
Right.
But some people you can see that their eyes are kind of wandering around.
That makes a difference, right?
If someone is reading, you can see the difference.
You see that they're not really paying attention to you.
But when I'm looking directly into the lens, the way I'm doing right now, in every single video,
you have a feeling of connection.
You feel like, Wow, this guy is really connecting with me.
He is really looking at me.
And that's exactly what you want to do when you are filming your videos now.
Is it easy?
No, it's not easy.
It's actually quite tricky, especially when you get started.
Now, at this point, I filmed so many videos all over the world for pretty much what, ten years now?
Over ten years.
I've been making videos over eight years here on Udemy that I'm just used to it.
This is something that I do.
I look at the lens, it feels normal, but I vividly remember that right at the beginning of my journey
of filming, it felt awkward because you look at one spot, there are no people there.
It's hard to visualize that you are talking to your audience.
You're literally just looking at that lifeless device.
It can feel a bit strange.
So I completely understand that you may feel weird about it, and because of that you may have a temptation
to look away.
And it's one of the biggest mistakes that people make that rather than looking at the lens, they look
away.
Now as you are addressing a regular audience, we talked about it before, right?
We talk to you about eye contact.
It is important that you give people eye contact, but you don't have to stare at them just like this
all the time, right?
You move from person to person or from section to section in your audience.
Now it's a little bit different when you are talking to the camera, right?
When you're talking to the camera, you can just look away, you know, half of the time, right?
You cannot do that.
It doesn't seem natural.
It seems like you are reading something.
So when you're present in front of a camera, you have to make sure that you are always looking at the
lens.
Now, from time to time, you can look up, you can look down.
That's what I sometimes do as well, right?
So you want to think and you look up, right?
That's natural.
But you want to spend literally 95% of your time looking directly at a lens.
So how can you get comfortable doing it?
Well, you get comfortable by practicing.
We had a section about practicing, but specifically when you are prepping for filming in front of a
camera, what you want to do is you want to practice while looking at a lens.
If you practice your video presentations, looking, for example, in the mirror or looking at other
people, you will not get used to that feeling that you get when you have to stare at that little lens
in front of you.
So I urge you to practice your video presentations by video presenting.
It's as simple as that.
So whenever you film something, maybe you have to film a series of videos for your business, or maybe
you are an influencer, or perhaps you are an expert and you want to build a video course.
Or maybe you are a manager or even a CEO of a company, and you want to address your employees or your
team members, whatever it is, right?
Whatever you have to film rather than just practicing in front of the mirror rather than skip and practice.
What you want to do is you want to actually set up your phone in front of you, buy a cheap tripod,
you don't need anything fancy.
You can spend $20, get a basic try, but or even just put it on a chair, it doesn't matter.
And you want to practice speaking to the camera, looking at that lens all the time, it will feel uncomfortable.
But when you do it a couple of times, eventually you will get used to it.
And that's when you get into the right state to film the actual video.

--- Your First Impression & Energy ---

There's a saying that it's very hard to change the first impression, and it's true.
And it also applies to video presenting, because when somebody sees your video for the first time,
they will make an impression within the first few seconds, whether you want it or not, whether they
want it or not.
Right.
That's how we are hardwired as humans.
Otherwise, if we didn't make snap judgments, we couldn't really go for this life.
I mean, imagine making all of those hundreds of thousands of decisions every single day.
If you were to ponder each one of them, you wouldn't be able to do it right.
So we are hardwired to to be able to judge things and people just like this, right?
Snapshot decisions.
You walk into your environment, you meet ten different people, you can make a snapshot decision whether
you want to spend more time with them or not.
And we all do it whether we want it or not.
And that's why it's so important that when you film your videos, you create the right first impression.
The first few seconds of the video are extremely, extremely important.
And that's why what you want to do is you always want to start with your best because it's going to
set the context for everything you come.
So when you create a video, what you want to do is you want to get yourself into the right set.
We have a section about getting yourself into the right state, but you want to start strong.
For example, here we are using one main camera, but also we have a B-roll camera.
We have camera on a slider and this way this presentation feels a bit more digitally charismatic.
That's how I like to call it, because you see me from this angle, but you can also see from that angle
because it's moving a little bit, it makes everything a bit more dynamic.
But still, even with two cameras, it's always a little bit difficult when you are presenting on a
video to convey your true personality and the true level of energy.
And that's why I recommend that whenever you present on video, you want to increase your energy a little
bit, right?
So if this is your typical level of energy, if you present in front of a camera, you want to amp it
up maybe ten, 20% more, because otherwise you may appear flat on a camera.
So whenever you get in front of that little lens, you want to ask yourself, okay, how would I speak
normally?
And then add I would say extra 15 to 20%.
It may feel a little bit uncomfortable.
You may feel like you are overdoing it, but I promise you that you are not and you want to do it because
when you increase your range, when you add more energy into your video presentation, then you'll be
able to counteract that possibly negative effect of people in general seeming a bit more flat on a video.
So I hope that this is useful.
I know it's going to feel a bit uncomfortable, but push yourself to increase that level of energy when
you are presenting in front of a camera and you will see the difference.

--- The Camera Positioning DOs and DON’Ts ---

In this video, I'd like to share with you something that is very important.
Yet a lot of people don't think about it, and it's the camera positioning and the impact it has on
the first impression and also your digital charisma.
Because I'm sure you had situations when you were talking to somebody maybe on a virtual call and their
face was right in the camera.
Right.
So you see their chin, you almost see the inside of their nose.
They are like this, right?
Or maybe you had a different situation when somebody was in a very dark room far away from a camera
and you couldn't even see that person very well.
Maybe you had a situation when someone was looking at you like this right there.
Cam was over there and it felt like they're looking down at you.
Perhaps you had a situation when somebody was sitting like this and you felt that that person is very
defensive.
So how you position your camera and how you position yourself within your space is really important
because, look, this is the only impression people will have when you meet somebody in a real life.
If you come here and you and me, we sit and we start conversing, it's completely different.
You can see me from different angles.
It's real 3D.
We can sense each other's energy.
It's completely different.
But when you see somebody on a camera, for example, you're in a virtual meeting.
Well, what you see is what you get.
That's it.
Right?
So so when you speak to somebody and you miss position your camera, right?
You don't appear very charismatic and very open and genuine and confident.
Well, that's what people will assume about you.
So here are some of the mistakes that you should avoid.
Well, first of all, what you don't want to do is you never want to look down at people.
So you see how I'm looking at you right now.
I'm looking directly in the lens and the lens, meaning your eyes are at the same level with my eyes.
Right.
And you can sense it.
We are equal.
I don't feel like I'm better than you, but also I don't feel inferior.
We are two equal individuals having this relationship here, having this conversation because I'm at
the same level now.
If I was sitting, let's say, one meter higher, you would have the feeling that I'm looking down at
you.
I guarantee you would have a feeling that, you know what Jimmy feels like he knows everything, right?
He seems a little bit bossy.
You would have that feeling.
On the other hand, if I positioned the camera higher.
So if I was sitting below the camera looking up, you would have a perception that I may be a bit unsure
of myself.
I'm not that powerful speaker who will teach you about presentation skills and somebody who doesn't
really believe in himself that much.
Right.
You would get some of that perception and a lot of it happens on the subconscious level.
Another thing is if I get really close and I'm not going to do it right now because I don't want to
destroy the set.
Right.
We have everything set with the slider.
If I got really close to the lens so you can see my face just like this.
Well, you would feel like I'm invading your space, right?
And I know that you may think, well, how can you invade my space?
You are on my laptop or on my phone, but it doesn't matter.
It's just perception of your brain.
If somebody gets too close to the camera where you can just see their face like this in the lens, well,
you have a feeling that they are invading your space, that they are too close to.
At least some people have that perception.
Now, on the other hand, when you are going too far away from the lens and people can see your entire
body, but they can barely see your face, they have a perception that you are really far away, that
you are not really fully involved in what's happening.
And that's why it's so important that you get it right.
So the question is, how do you get it right?
Well, the first thing I already mentioned, right, you want to make sure you are at the same level
with your viewer, the same level of eyes.
Right.
You want to make sure that you look directly into the lens.
Now, you may be wondering what what if I'm speaking at a virtual gathering and I want to see people?
That's fine.
You can look at people, but from time to time, look at the lens.
Look at the lens.
You will see the difference.
People will notice the difference on the subconscious level.
Because when you look at the screen all the time, people have a perception you are not looking at them.
You think you are looking at them because you see them.
But the lens is over there.
But from time to time, if you look at the lens is the equivalent of having a direct eye contact.
Another thing is that when you position yourself in front of the camera, ideally you want to make sure
that people see at least half of your body.
They want to see you from the waist up.
Right now in the shot we have a bit different frame.
You can see me roughly from my knees.
We are doing some experiments here with different angles.
I'm not sure how it's going to look in post-production, but you can see me from here.
And the reason I always like to have at least this frame is because you need to be able to see my arms
and especially my palms when you show people your palms.
We talked about it in the body language section, right?
When you show people your palms, you're essentially communicating, listen.
There's nothing to worry about.
I come in peace.
Look, I have no weapons.
I have no weapons.
I'm peaceful, right?
I want to be friends.
But when people cannot see your hands, well, you never know.
Maybe that person has a weapon.
Maybe that person is hiding something.
And that's why it's so important to show your palms, to have this open body language.
You want to learn more and you skip the body language section.
Then please go back to the body language section.
So this is why you want to be visible from here.
This way when you are using your body language, when you open your palms, people can see everything.
Now you definitely want to avoid a class position.
So the last thing you want is to close your position.
When you are presenting, when you're interacting with people in front of a camera, ideally you want
to have this open position.
And last but not least, what is also really important is just the overall quality of your video.
Now, when I say quality, look, it doesn't mean you have to come to a fancy studio, you have to use
a slider and things like that.
You don't need those things.
In fact, a lot of the calls that I do, I just I just did a consultant call before this filming session
and I just use my laptop.
But even though I use my laptop, I still try to have a proper light.
I still try to frame the video properly so I can create this aura of professionalism and openness.
Right.
You really don't want to be sloppy when it comes to things like this.
So always make sure that you have good source of light.
Always make sure that you have good audio quality.
Because remember, when you are in front of the camera, especially during team gatherings, virtual
meetings, virtual presentations, people, people are not seeing you in real life.
They can't touch you.
They can't sense your energy.
Everything that you do in front of the camera, everything that they see on a screen, they will take
it for granted.
That's going to be their impression of you.
So sure, you may say, well, I don't have good microphone, right?
Yes.
My kids are loud in the background.
I don't have a proper lamp in front of me.
My webcams quality is not the best.
I get it.
But what we need to understand is that people don't care about any of those excuses.
Right?
People are too busy.
No, not when people see you in front of a camera.
Whether watching course like this or your employees are watching a video you just made or you are doing
a virtual gathering or you're negotiating a deal and you're on zoom in your apartment, people don't
have the time to delve deep and think, Hey, maybe John is having a bad day.
Maybe he didn't make it to his office.
And that's why he's in his flat or in his maybe in his kitchen, right?
Oh, Joanna, she probably, you know, doesn't have anyone to take care of the kids.
And that's why they are so loud in the background.
So nobody cares about those potential excuses.
No one cares about that.
People feel whatever they see, right?
If they see that the quality is not good, if they can barely hear you, if it's mis framed and they
can't see you from here or you are too far away, audio is not correct.
There's not enough light.
There's too loud in the background.
That's the first impression, right?
No one is thinking about your excuses, does the first impression and people will inevitably assume,
even on a subconscious level, that you are not a very professional person.
So keep it in mind.
Always do your best.
And in order to do your best, well, you have to just be very smart about your preparation.
Whenever you know that you have an important call, you have a filming session, you're doing a virtual
gathering.
Don't just run into it right without any prep.
Make sure you allow some time to to make sure that everything is sorted right.
Make sure that you tell your kids, Hey, please don't come into the room.
You lock the doors.
Make sure to tell your flatmates if you are flatmates, hey, please don't use up all of the wi fi.
Don't download movies.
Right now I'm having a really important call, right?
So all in all, it's really important that you do all of that background work, little bit of preparation,
right?
A little bit of thinking and advance.
So then later on when you jump on that team call or virtual meeting or negotiation or you're doing a
presentation, you can do it in a relaxed state knowing that everything is going to be fine.

--- Section Introduction ---

Welcome to this section about slice.
Now this section will be fairly concise.
It's not one of those things that I want to go very deep into.
I want to use the 8020 principle.
So rather than, you know, showing you a screencast and teaching you for one or 2 hours how exactly
to design different slides, I honestly feel like this is beyond the scope of this course.
This wouldn't be useful to a lot of you.
And there are other courses specifically about PowerPoint or keynote presentations, right?
How to design them.
So here I want to focus on the 8020 principle.
So rather than giving you a lot of random content, I want to give you only the most important strategies,
mindset shifts, hacks that you should use.
I want to focus here on the biggest mistakes that people make when designing their slides.
So I'm going to cover the fundamentals.
I'm going to show you essentially what I wish I knew back in the day.
I hope that you're excited and let's get started.

--- My Personal Approach ---

So in this video, I would like to talk to you about some of the fundamentals and share with you my
personal approach to slide.
So in the past, us to make a terrible mistake of having this erroneous mindset that if you don't use
slides, it's a badge of honor, right?
I used to think that if you can get on a stage and just keep talking and talking and talking without
using any slides, any supplementary material.
Wow, you are the boss, right?
You really know what you are doing.
And sure, in some cases desist the case.
Right.
You know, if you are doing a keynote presentation that's supposed to be motivational and you get out
there and you really inspire people in half an hour with no slides, just you and the audience.
Great.
If you are doing some type of Q&amp;A session, you probably don't want to have slides.
If you are doing a very short speech that's primarily based on a story, probably don't need many slides
or maybe you don't need any of them.
But there are cases when you need slides, or at least what they can be useful.
For example, if you are doing a technical presentation, you definitely want to have slides.
You want to showcase certain things visually.
If you are talking about a specific project and there are certain visuals, right, or data diagrams,
etc., that you believe the audience should see, well, you could talk about it, but a picture can
see more than 1000 words sometimes.
Rather than talking about something, you may as well just show it to the audience.
So dark cases when slides are really useful, but I see people making one out of two very common mistakes.
So some people make my mistake of thinking that, well, I'm not going to use slides at all, right?
I want to be the boss.
I don't need the slides.
That's one mistake.
Another mistake is the other extreme where people rely on their slides.
It's almost like they make slides more important than their presentation.
Right?
Slides become the core of the presentation, not the other way around.
And that's a mistake because your presentation is about you and your delivery.
Your slides should support your presentation, not the other way around.
It's not like you are presenting the slides and then you are there.
This little human being trying to support your slides, know your slides, are supporting your presentation.
So what typically happens is that a person is presenting and then then click on the slide there.
And the moment the slide shows up, they start reading this slide, they talk about it and then bam
again.
They look at the slide and keep talking.
But when you do it this way, well, everyone knows that you are fully relying on your slides.
If the building lost electricity, you wouldn't be able to speak.
You wouldn't be able to do it because you wouldn't have access to your slide.
Your slides become the foundation for your presentation.
And again, you don't want that to happen.
You want to have a situation that even when you lose your slides, they got deleted or you forgot them,
or maybe the electricity goes off and people want to listen to you so much, they light up some torches.
They are like, Hey, keep going.
Without the microphone, without the slides.
We want to listen to you.
You want to have a situation where you can actually carry on with your presentation.
So again, you don't want the slides to be this this foundation of your message.
You are the foundation and slides are supporting you.
So you don't want to have a situation where you look at a slide, you talk, you look, you read from
it, you talk, and you keep doing that.
What you want to do is you want it to be so seamless.
You want it to be completely interconnected, you want it to flow smoothly.
So let's say that I'm doing a presentation in my company and I want to teach my employees about productivity.
And let's say that one of the things I want to talk to them about is the 8020 principle.
And let's imagine that I prepped a slide with this 8020 Visualize right.
You have the 80 circle and the 20 circle, and I want to show them that slide so I could do it to different
ways.
Right.
I could talk and I'm talking.
I'm talking at some point I click on the slide.
This 8020 graphic shows up and I say, well, now I want to talk to you about something called the 8020
principle.
That's one way to do it, and that's okay, you could do it.
But if you really want to become a pro, you do it differently, right?
You start talking and you talk and you say, Well, there is something that I want to introduce you
to that's a really powerful strategy that will revolutionize your productivity.
And it's called the 8020 principle.
And the moment you say it, that's when you click and it shows up.
I want you to do it this way.
People know that you didn't need that slide.
This slide is just supporting your message.
You had all of this in your head.
You knew exactly what you're going to say.
You knew you would be talking about the 8020 principle and the moment you said the word 8020, bam,
it shows up on a screen, right?
It's so seamless.
It's so succinct.
And when you make it so succinct, the entire message becomes so much more compelling.
People feel like you are completely in tune with your slides.
Your slides become this integral part of your message.
Everything flows together so smoothly.
Is it easy?
Of course not.
Right?
In order to do it, you have to know your present.
Really well, and that's why practice is so important.
Now, we talked about practice in a different section.
In fact, we have a completely separate section about how to practice and why it's important.
So if you use slides in your next presentation, you want to make sure that you practice with your slides
and you want to get to the point that you know them so well that every time you're about to click on
the next slide, you already know what's going to be there.
People will be able to sense it.
People will give you a lot of props.
You will see you'll be perceived as a way more professional, captivating, charismatic presenter if
you do it.

--- Important Considerations ---

So as we discussed in the previous videos, you definitely shouldn't use slides as that crutch where
you just put all of your info and then you keep reading from it, right?
Using it as the foundation for your entire presentation.
So what you want to do is because you want your slides to be impactful, you want to make sure that
you don't overload them.
And again, this is one of the biggest mistakes people make.
They just put too much information on those slides.
They put a few paragraphs, they put a lot of crazy diagrams that in order to really dissect them,
you would have to pause and look at them for 10 minutes.
And obviously you don't have that much time.
So people just kind of gloss over them without really understanding what's on a slide.
And that slide just helps the presenter to kind of narrate whatever they want to say.
But it doesn't really serve any any other purpose.
It doesn't add any value to the presentation.
So the basic rule is you want to make the slides impactful and to make them impactful, you want to
keep it simple.
You want to keep them short, right?
You want to use big fonts and very few words.
So ideally you want to put a phrase on it, you want to use some bullet points, but of course you don't
want to make too many bullet points.
You may use three maximum four bullet points, maybe five, but still you want to keep the font pretty
big so everyone can see right away what you are talking about.
Remember, when people are listening to your presentation, they are primarily focusing on your presentation.
You don't want to take that focus away from you.
And when you load your slides with too much information and rather than listening to you, people will
be tempted to try to read the slide.
And guess what?
While they're trying to dissect what's on it, they stop listening to you.
They stop losing the context of whatever it is that you are saying.
You become less engaging as a presenter, so make sure that your slides are really minimalistic, right?
The less you put on each slide, the better the bigger the font, the better you may be thinking.
Well, gee, it makes sense.
What?
I have so much information I want to share a simple answer divide that information into various slides.
It's better to have more slides with less information on each one of them than have less slides with
a ton of information that's overwhelming your audience.
Sometimes it's actually useful to have just one word on one phrase, one sentence on a slide.
You may be thinking, Isn't it weird?
Just one sentence, but it actually makes sense, right?
Because when you put just one sentence or phrase or an image, I'm going to talk about images in a second.
When you make it so minimalistic, people see it and bam within the first second they know exactly what
it's all about.
So they're focusing on you.
Presenting the slide comes off, bam, you see the slide, you pay attention to it.
One or 2 seconds.
You know exactly what it says.
You know the message back to the presenter, right?
So you are not losing that attention.
And that's why images are so powerful, right?
You could write a bunch of things on a slide, but sometimes if you choose the right image, it can
create this emotional response.
And there's this old saying that one picture can say more than a thousand words, and I agree with it.
And in fact, I would say that some pictures can see more than tens of thousands of words, because
there are some images out there, especially videos that when you see them, they create so much emotion
that there is no amount of war that you could use to create the same emotion with a spoken word.
And that's why images can be really powerful videos as well.
And a lot of people tell me, Jimmy, listen, I would love to become a better presenter, but my biggest
problem is that I'm not funny, man.
Like, I just I'm not a very humanistic presenter.
I find it very difficult to be lose, to be myself, to be funny.
And I used to struggle with this myself.
And even still to this day, I don't perceive myself to be a really funny presenter.
Now I got better at it and I got better with my humor and being more light.
And I even hosted a talent show at one entrepreneurship conference and I made people laugh.
So I overcame that limiting belief.
But in general, I perceive myself to be more of a business presenter.
Right.
But humor is important.
And if you struggle with humor, if you don't naturally crack jokes, you can use images.
You can use short videos to change people's emotional state.
Right?
If you find it difficult to inject humor into your presentation, what it takes is just to find one
picture, just one picture that creates an emotional response that will make people laugh.
You show them that picture on a slide in the right context and people will start laughing.
And the great thing about it is that you didn't even have to do any of the work, right?
You're not even risking that you're going to tell a joke that nobody will get.
It's like one of the worst feelings in the world when you bomb on a stage, right?
The comics use this terminology bombing.
Basically what it means is that you tell a joke and no one laughs and you tell another one and no one
laughs.
And now you are getting into the downward spiral, right?
You feel like a failure.
So definitely be open to using images and videos.
Don't overdo it.
Don't put 20 different images in your presentation, but at least try to experiment.
With it if you haven't done it before, because it's going to give you some amazing results.
You may be wondering, okay, Jimmy, so where do I get those images?
Where do I get those videos?
And it all depends, right?
I don't know the type of presentation you will be doing.
I don't know the exact context.
Everyone is different.
Everyone has a different situation.
But there is a website called Unsplash.com, unsplash.com, and it's a website that has a lot of royalty
free images, a lot of them.
And the way it works is very simple.
So different artists, different photographers supplied their images for free.
But in exchange there is a credit in there, right?
So when you download the image, you know who took that photo.
Now you have a choice to give the credit to that person.
But you don't have to.
You actually don't have to do it.
So if you want to use one of those images in your presentation, you don't have to mention, by the
way, this photo was taken by so-and-so.
You don't even have to put it down on a slide.
You don't have to mention it.
You can if you want to give the credit to that person, but you don't have to.
So it makes it very simple for any content creator to get access to a huge base of incredible images
that can trigger emotion and then use them in your presentation.
Now, in some cases, it may make sense to use your own pictures and videos, right?
It all depends on the situation, depends on the context.
But for example, when I'm doing a presentation and I'm talking about my upbringing or I'm talking about
my time in Goldman Sachs, right?
I'm talking about some of my travels all over the world.
Well, I could use stock images, but.
But why?
I have all of those photos from my own life.
So since I'm talking about myself and my story, I use those images, right?
So when you're doing those types of presentations or perhaps you are introducing yourself and you want
to support that message with something visual, use your own pictures, use your own videos.
So for example, if you are a team leader, maybe a CEO of the company, and you're addressing the new
employees and you're sharing a story about how you went from being just a regular salesman to then climbing
the ranks and becoming a manager and then VP and eventually becoming a CEO.
Right.
If that's a story that you're sharing, well, it's definitely useful to add some images to support
your message, to show people your your true human side, that that always makes people connect to you
more.
Anyhow, I hope that you enjoyed this video.
I know that there's a lot of information, but.
But this is really useful.
This is really useful.
The main thing is that because everyone is different, it's so important that you don't just take it
at face value, but you actually take this info strategies and tools that I'm giving you and you just
try to implement them and see what works for you.

--- Being Brutally Honest with Yourself ---

In this video, we'd like to address something that may make some people feel a little bit uncomfortable
because I'm about to call you.
Wow.
Not all of you, but some of you.
And I just have to reframe it by saying that this is something that I used to struggle with.
I had a bunch of those types of situations.
So have you ever had a situation when you prep your presentation, you have your slides and you are
practicing and as you were going through your slides, you thought to yourself, Oh, this is so boring.
I feel bored.
I really can't be bothered to keep going through those slides.
This is just something is off.
It's a bit unclear or it's not exciting.
It's missing that juice.
Have you ever had a situation like this now?
Have you ever had a situation when you felt like this but you still kept going with the presentation?
You decided, Well, I'm not going to change much, I'm just going to use it, and maybe it's just me.
Maybe I'm just overworked.
People will love it.
Well, here's the reality check, and I learned it the hard way.
If you are going for your own presentation and you feel like your slides are boring or they are unclear
or they are confusing, maybe just too much information on each slide, right?
When you as the creator of the actual presentation, have that feeling, then guess what?
Your audience will feel the same.
And we may lie to ourselves.
We may say to ourselves, Well, now you know it's going to be fine.
It's going to be fine.
It's just me.
I just went through this presentation too many times.
That's why it's boring to me, or that's why it's just feels a little bit confusing.
Now, if you feel like this, your audience will feels like this.
So what's the right thing to do here?
Well, if you have a situation like this, the only right thing to do is to fix your slides.
And that's it, right?
If you're practicing and you get bored, it feels unclear, it feels confusing.
You have to fix it.
And I know it may take some time.
It's going to take extra time, extra effort.
But if you keep polishing your slides, if you keep making them better and better, you will get to
the point of eventually the sweet spot where you are practicing your presentation and you are going
for your slides and you're thinking to yourself, Wow, this is crisp, this is amazing.
This is this is so captivating, right?
You are practicing and you almost like to proud of yourself.
Wow.
This image I added.
Wow.
I can't wait for the audience to react to this.
All right.
Well, that's title with that picture.
Wow.
That's going to be epic.
That quote.
Woo!
I can't wait for the audience to see it.
When you start reacting like this to your own work, now you know you are doing something right.
And guess what?
When you feel excited about your own presentation, when you feel like everything is clear, it's not
overloaded, it's not confusing, right?
It doesn't misinform the audience.
You go through it and you feel like, Wow, this is great, this is crisp, this is clear, this is
captivating, this is exciting, this is funny, this is engaging.
When you feel like this about your presentation, your audience will feel the same.
So do the work.
Put in extra effort is really worth it.
And again, I mentioned to you that I had those situations and I have to say I'm not proud of it, but
I had moments in my life when I would put together some slides and I wasn't fully satisfied with them.
But all due to time, pressure and other obligations, I would simply say to myself, You know what
is going to be fine, let me change a few things, but it's going to be fine as it's going to be okay,
it's going to be fine.
And then I'll go on a stage and use those slides and I would regret it during my delivery.
I would literally think to myself, Why didn't I change it?
You know, like I would be better off doing the presentation without those slides than with them.
So, so again, as I said at the beginning, your slides are there to support your message.
They are there to add juice to your message.
If they are not doing that well, something is wrong.
You have to go back and you have to you have to rethink everything.
So I hope that this is helpful.
You know, I know that this video probably makes some of you uncomfortable because in a way, I'm calling
you out.
I'm telling you, hey, if you're not fully happy, go and put extra work.
But that extra work is always worth.

--- Congratulations: Section Conclusion ---

Once again, congratulations for completing this section about slots.
I really hope that you find it valuable.
I did my best to give you the most important information, the least amount of time.
But as always, if you have any questions, if you have any feedback, if you feel like I should add
certain videos to this section, then please do let me know.
You know, historically, over the years, as you can see my other courses, I keep adding new content.
I never simply release a course and then forget about it.
Instead I release the main product.
Then I gather feedback from my audience.
I gather all the questions, all the effort.
QS Right.
I check the reviews.
And then based on that, when I see that, a lot of people are asking me about the same topics, when
I see that a lot of people have the same questions, I try to add more and more content to fill some
of those little holes to make this course as good as it can possibly be.
And the same thing applies to this particular course.
So I always welcome your feedback.
It's always highly appreciated and I'll keep doing my best to keep making this course as good as it
can possibly be.
Now, in the next section, we're going to be talking about something really exciting, which is your
perceived confidence.
You're going to switch gears.
I'm sure that you will enjoy this section of hey, see you in a second.
Let's get started.

--- HOSTING TIPS: My Top Tips for becoming a Great Host ---

In this video.
I want to talk to you a little bit about hosting because so many people have been asking me about hosting
all types of different events, whether it's an internal event in your company, maybe it's something
that you want to organize yourself.
You you work in your department and maybe you want to bring a bunch of people together and do something.
Or perhaps you are invited to speak at some external conference and you have to host.
Well, it kind of gets tricky, right, because it's very different to just presenting your keynote.
So in this video, I'm going to give you some of my best tips for making that experience much, much
easier.
Number one rule of hosting.
It is not about you when you become a host and it doesn't matter where, whether it's some comedy show
or a business event, whatever it is, it's not about you.
You are there to make the show run, right?
So you are there to increase the energy to make all of those links.
And between the speakers and different things happening during the show, you are there to increase
the energy, to make everybody feel comfortable, to make people feel like they are hard, to introduce
the speakers to make them the stars of the show.
Right.
So it's not about you.
And I'm talking about it because so many people want to get this hosting opportunity.
They feel this pressure of becoming a -- comedian.
Right.
And it's you know, I don't blame them.
Right.
I mean, this happens when you get an offer to host the show.
The first thought to your mind, wow.
But some of those hosts are so funny.
So now I have to become a comedian.
Now, the problem is, if you are not already a comedian, if you are not a funny person by nature,
then if you now try to fake it and try to force being funny, you probably want to be funny and you
will come across as somebody who's just trying to put themselves out there to be in the spotlight.
But this is not your job.
When you are hosting some type of event, you don't have to be funny, right?
You just have to be yourself.
You have to live up to who you are and you got to stay within your job responsibility.
So rather than making it about you, rather than spending too much time talking about yourself, spending
too much time making jokes and doing things like that, you've got to be professional and you've got
to remember that your main responsibility is to make the show run, hopefully to keep the energy light
and positive, and to make other people star of the show.
Let's talk about your energy level now.
When you give a keynote, it's okay to have lower level of energy.
It depends on the topic.
Depends on your personal style.
Now, of course, if you are trying to motivate your employees, you want to increase the energy, right?
Or you want to modulate it.
You want to go up and down, up and down.
But there could be some topics where maybe your personal style and the topic allow you to keep a little
bit lower energy and have still that calm charisma where you don't speak too fast, you don't speak
too loud, but you just have that calm charisma.
However, when you are a host of any event, you want to really increase the energy in the room because
it's totally different.
Again, your responsibility is to keep the energy up and your responsibility is to make everybody else
the star of the show, to make sure that everything flows smoothly.
So your energy levels are really important.
Nothing is worse than a host who just gets to the stage.
Hi.
How's everybody doing?
Great.
Today we have a very exciting day.
The first speaker will be a person who I mean, come on, everybody is already falling asleep, right?
Even though you may not feel like a shaman, you don't have to be one.
But at least keep your energy high.
Keep your energy positive.
Always ask yourself, how would I talk to those people if they were guests at my home?
Right.
You want to have this very warm energy, you want to smile, you want to be light, and if you do that,
you're going to do just fine.
Okay.
So how to do proper introductions now, if you're a host, of course, you have to introduce different
people on a stage and it can get tricky for many people.
And I had situations when, for example, I was introduced in a in a very bad way by different people
when the host didn't know actually what to say.
Right.
And they would kind of stutter and and they would just say something like, okay, welcome to the stage,
Jimmy.
What about the surname?
Right?
I mean, Jimmy Germany, Jimmy's elder.
They would never mention what I do.
They would never mention any interesting fact about me.
They're kind of stumble on their words, tell a story that's not relevant.
And then my first name, I mean, that's not the way to introduce anybody.
What you want to do is you want to ideally talk to the speaker whenever you can, right?
So if you are at a conference and you have direct access to the speakers, talk to them and simply ask
them, Hey, how do you want me to introduce you?
Like, do you have any specific thing you want me to say?
Because here's the thing somebody is presenting.
And for example, they just released a book just a few weeks ago, even though they may have other accomplishments,
don't really care about any of that.
They just want to promote the book.
So it wouldn't be wise of you to talk about the fact that they built this multimillion dollar company
and they created that software and this and that.
They don't care about it.
Their focus now is to sell the book.
So the starting for you as a good host would be to introduce them and then say and this person wrote
a bestselling book called Bam, Bam, Bam, right?
So always ask the speaker.
Now, when you cannot ask the speaker, because there are situations where you are so packed or maybe
you're doing it kind of last minute, especially when you're doing internal events and company and you
just can't talk to the speaker, don't do your homework or ask people who know them how you how you
should introduce them right now.
Don't make the introductions too long, but don't make it too short.
Make sure that when you introduce someone, you elevate them.
You want to create a situation that people get excited about seeing that person present, right?
The last thing you have is a situation where people are sitting there listening to your intro thinking,
okay, what a big deal.
Why is this person on a stage like what's the big fuss about it?
No, no.
You want to have a situation where after your introduction, everybody is curious.
There's a sense of mystery.
It's like, wow, that person will be speaking.
I definitely want to stick around.
I definitely want to keep my eyes on my ears open right now.
Another thing is that when do you say the name of the person?
One of the biggest mistakes is to say the name right at the beginning.
So, for example, if I say next speaker will be Tim Ferriss, Ferriss, Rau, these many bestselling
books, bam, bam, bam, bam.
I get into it.
But now everybody already knows is going to be Tim Ferris.
And they all have some preconceived notions about Tim Ferris because many people know him.
So now, rather than listening to me, they're kind of tapping into their own memory of that person.
So rather than doing that, what you want to do is you want to get on a stage and you want to start
sharing things about that person.
And again, ideally, you want to make it high level, high value.
You want to add a little bit of mystery in there, a little bit of humor, especially if you know the
person.
It's always nice to to mention some type of story in there to make it more entertaining.
And then right at the end, you say the name.
So you say, okay, well, ladies and gentlemen, without further ado, welcome to the stage.
Tim Ferriss Right.
So till the end, they know exactly who is going to be.
All right.
Very important.
Use this because it's very, very powerful, but very simple.
Interaction with the audience is always very important, but especially when you are a host, because
when you are house, you got to raise that energy in the room.
You want to make sure that and between the speeches, people don't fall asleep.
You've got to make sure that you keep that energy high because conferences are usually quite long.
Right.
Or internal events, for example, within your company, they usually take for many, many hours.
And it's easy for people just to have that crash where they slowly fall asleep in their chair.
So you've got to make sure that you always have some type of interaction because you don't want to overdo
it.
But in a very subtle way, for example, asking people, Hey, how many of you can relate to the last
presentation?
Raise your hands.
How many of you are excited about the next speaker?
Raise your hands.
You want to get people to clap as well.
Like this is very important from the from the beginning.
You've got to make people want to clap.
You've got to get them into the habit of clapping.
So, for example, what I do when I present, even when I'm not the host right at the beginning, I
like to say, guys, by the way, first of all, give a big round of applause for the organizers of
this amazing conference and then everyone is clapping.
Guess what?
When they start clapping now they are more used to clapping.
So they are more likely to clap when I say something funny or something profound.
So as a host, it's very important to interact with your audience.
Nowadays people crave authenticity more than anything else.
And I'm talking about it because very often when you become a conference host, you feel this temptation,
this pressure almost to be funny, right?
Or to perform a certain way to put on some type of mask.
Even internally, when you host something, you may feel like, well, now I'm the host.
I have to be funny.
I have to be this.
I have to be.
And of course, as I said in other videos, it is important to raise your level of energy.
It is crucial to be positive, to be upbeat, to have this light energy about you.
But at the same time, you cannot put some random mask on you.
You got to stay true to yourself.
So to give an example, look, I don't perceive myself to be an extremely funny guy, like definitely
not me.
When I get on a stage, my main purpose is to make an impact, right?
And whether people laugh in the process, that's secondary.
It's always fun to make people laugh, but that's never the purpose.
So recently I got asked to host a talent show, and I have to be honest with you, the first thought
was, I kind of want to say yes, but I kind of want to say because I'm not the funny guy, I'm not
a comedian.
And I was kind of I have to be honest, I was kind of stressed out deep inside about getting out there
with this pressure to be funny.
And of course, I said yes, because whenever you see something that's uncomfortable, you have to go
for it.
That's how you all grow.
And then at some point I realized, wait a second, why would I put this pressure on myself to be funny?
I'm just going to stay who I am.
And if some jokes come to my mind and I'm performing, that's fine.
Then I'm going to make them in a natural way rather than arranging a bunch of jokes that are really
funny, right?
So I ended up getting on a stage and I killed.
It was amazing.
It was lots of fun.
I had fun and I wasn't funny all the time, but I definitely made a few funny jokes up there.
But the point is that whenever you face a situation like this, you just got to realize that as long
as you stay true to yourself, as long as you stay authentic, that's when you will connect to your
audience at a deeper level.
He doesn't take himself too seriously when we ask him, Hey, can you give us some facts about yourself?
We expected to hear a regular thing.
And he simply said, Hey, guys, I'm like Ed Sheeran just without the talent and and I've got it.
And, you know, and I'm like I'm like Prince Harry just with all the cash.
So super funny guy who walks this dog body on the stage.
Funny off the stage.
Did you?
Chris, it's a pleasure to have you here.
So this group is 131 years old combined, and it's only two of them.
So these are all these guys on the cruise.
They're super, super cool, super fun.
In many ways they are an inspiration.
I definitely at that age.
I would love to be traveling and doing the stuff that they are doing, by the way.
Feel free to give them a huge round of applause because they can handle it.
And even if they don't have to do that, we have we have emergency on standby so that when they come
up to the stage, we give them as much energy as possible.
Right.
Because, look, this is not a competition.
There are no losers here.
Everyone is a -- winner.
Right?
If you come up to this stage, you push yourself, you become a winner.
So make sure that you give them as much energy as possible, even if it means.
And it's not easy to come to the stage.
Many of those people were really fighting their demons.
Right.
You want to show something, you want to entertain your community, but there's this fear that's holding
you back and then, bam, you push through it.
And they ended up here.
And thanks to them, we had this amazing night.
So once again, just a huge round of applause for all of the performers.

--- Example of an Amazing Introduction by Ronan Diego de Oliveira ---

Helping edge the doors of people from all different walks of life.
Amongst many things to develop their voice.
To be able to speak with, carry a smile with confidence, and to be able to connect.
How important is this for us?
As entrepreneurs, we are in play the game of of human connection currency in continues someone who
is helping individuals in companies around the world to develop their voice and speak their message.
We call for their charisma and this guy does this really well.
I met first and then before I even experienced his ideas and called them in.
In the first time that I met him, we were all in a restaurant and you know that that is one person.
And there's a vortex of energy that turns around as everyone is having a good time.
And that's the source of the good energy.
It was.
It was to me it was there.
You're speaking.
He's someone that you love to be around because he has he knows how to connect.
He knows what to say, how to say.
He knows how to carry himself.
And people around him are smiling.
And then he goes on and teaches this thing and he's super success was doing this.
He has a bunch of online courses, especially on confidence and all.
Charisma is even more on awards and Udemy by being the most innovative author of their platform.
And well, if you go to YouTube it's by a gorgeous you courses are done really well and they have five
reviews in 5 hours you know they in reviews we find that these are really good points.
And then if you search for Jimmy, Lorraine and these courses on confidence, 40,000 reviews, how good
it is and this is one of the things that he does while traveling the world been for more than 70 countries
already and he doesn't have a base.
Yesterday we were talking about, okay, guys, with the mind fighting, where are you guys coming back
to after the events where he is is gone and Jesus says, this is the thing that's hopefully I'm coming
back to.
I'm always going for some other place and he's there for some place.
And from there I go to love the place that I leave there for some other.
All this is this is being run while he's living a life of adventure.
And so it's my pleasure, my honor to introduce in my college age, we start giving away.
In my book.
You make me blush.
What an introduction.
I was wondering, who are you talking about?
Who's that guy that we're talking about?
It's like a self-esteem booster.

--- EXTRA: How To Make People Introduce Themselves? ---

Have you ever had a situation when you joined some type of gathering?
And at some point someone said, You know what?
Why don't everyone introduces themselves?
And I had those situations way too many times, to be honest, I never liked this question of Introduce
yourself, what is your story?
And the reason I don't like those questions is because they are so open ended.
And it's tricky to calibrate, right?
Because if someone asks you what's your story, who you are, you could talk for a minute, but you
talk for one hour.
There are so many things that you could share and normally you are not expected to talk for too long.
If you're doing introductions in a group setting, you're expected to talk maybe for five, ten, 15,
20 seconds max.
That's it.
So for you to pick what you will say, it can be nerve wracking.
It can be tricky because you don't want to label yourself in a wrong way.
So let's say you are an entrepreneur like myself.
You may find it hard to introduce yourself.
What do you say?
How do you say it if you run a business?
Well, you could say, Well, I'm an entrepreneur and I run business X, Y and Z, and this is what
we do, blah, blah, blah.
But then you realize, well, I haven't really said anything about myself.
I talked about my business, what about the human side of me?
But then if you share on your human side, you may feel like you are not very professional.
So it's tricky.
I'm sure you can resonate.
It's tricky to answer those questions.
So when you are hosting some type of event, when you are the presenter, let's say you are doing some
type of company gathering and a lot of people don't know one another.
Rather than making it awkward for everyone by saying, All right, round of introductions, everyone
will get 20 seconds, introduce yourself.
If you do that, I can guarantee you that most people will not have any clue what everyone else said.
And the reason is that as they are trying to, as everyone else is speaking, they are trying to figure
out what they will say.
And this usually happens.
You know, it's quite crazy how it works.
My very good friend, Vivian Lakhani, he is the founder of Mind Value, really great personal development
company.
He organizes those famous gatherings and I went to a few of those.
And he is an incredible host.
He's in my view, he's the best.
I don't want to say networker because it has a bad connotation.
He is the best relationship builder and cultivator out there.
It's just incredible.
You know, his social circle, the way he brings people together, he's such a great connector.
And the way he does it is he, for example, gets a villa, gets 40 people in there, and he does a
round of introductions.
But instead of telling everyone, Hey, come to the front and introduce yourself, he introduces everyone.
So he says, Hey, this is John.
I know John from this place.
John is an amazing basketball player.
He's also an actor.
Hey, this is Joanna.
We met five years ago at this event.
Joanna is a great artist.
She's painting blah, blah, blah.
All right.
So he introduces everyone.
And rather than just sticking to professional facts, he likes to share an interesting fact about that
person.
And it's really powerful.
And he says himself and and it stuck with me when he said that.
He says, the reason I introduce you is because we have a lot of really successful people here.
We have a bunch of celebrities.
We have bestselling authors, incredible people.
And if I give you the mike to introduce yourself, well, you will have a hard time because you will
have only 5 to 10 seconds to introduce yourself.
And you don't make it to business like you want to make it fairly, fairly personal.
But at the same time, how do you do it?
So you will be thinking about your own introduction instead of listening to who else is in the room.
And it's brilliant.
It's brilliant because he is completely correct.
And whenever I go to his gatherings, I fully focus on everyone around me.
Whenever he introduces someone, I look at that person, I try to remember, I try to connect the dots.
It's just incredible.
So you want to be like vision when you are hosting your gatherings, when you are presenting, when
you are doing any type of business meeting.
So one thing to do is you could either introduce people who are on the call.
At the same time, I recognize that it may be tricky for some of you.
Maybe you don't know all of the people involved or you don't feel confident enough to introduce people.
That's fine.
That's totally okay.
The second thing you can do is you can tell people to introduce themselves, but not in a generic way.
So for example, what I like to do whenever I do live masterminds and I have 15, 20, 25 people, I
like to tell them to say something specific.
So rather than saying, Hey, are we going to do a round of introductions, introduce yourself, that's
BS.
Everyone does that right.
Instead I say something in the lines of and by the way, it depends on the environment.
Every time it's a little bit different.
But I could say something in the lines of, Hey, so I want you.
To take 15 to 20 seconds and say, what's your name?
What is your biggest passion and what you want to get out of this call, for example?
That's something.
So I give them a structure so suddenly rather than over thinking, Oh, what will I say?
I don't know what to say about myself.
I'm stressed out.
Well, should I should I pretend my wife I dropped off?
Should I just.
Just leave this call because I'm freaked out?
I give them a structure.
Structure that's easy enough for them to to feel comfortable.
Right.
So they can actually listen to other people.
In this example, I could say, Hey, my name is Jimmy Narang.
My biggest passion is adventure.
I just love traveling, exploring the world.
And this is what I want to get out of this skull, insert X, Y or Z because this is just an example.
But but I could say something like this and it's so simple, right?
So obviously every situation will be different.
But I encourage you to customize introductions and tell people to share something specific.
Could be just one thing.
It could be literally sharing.
Hey, I want you to say what is your name and what's one thing that excites you the most about the project
we are working on?
Right?
Just as an example, you will figure it out.
You know your situation.
But I wanted to give you this strategy because it's going to make it easier for you to get people to
introduce themselves and you will make people feel more comfortable as well.

--- EXTRA: Why TRYING to Look "COOL" Can Easily Backfire ---

Always treat high level people with respect, but don't kiss --.
The reason I'm telling you this is because I see a lot of people going into both extremes and I've experienced
those situations myself and I'm sure that you have as well.
So for example, you mentioned that you are a high level individual.
Maybe you are some type of CEO, an auteur, famous person.
Somebody walks up to you at an event and they literally become crazy fanboys.
They tell you how amazing you are, like for 5 minutes, wow, you are the best.
You are amazing.
Your book is incredible.
Everything about you is amazing.
How do you feel?
Well, you may feel flattered initially, but at some point it becomes annoying.
It becomes a little bit strange and becomes too much.
It feels like, wow, I'm just I'm wondering if that person is okay.
I'm wondering if they don't have any issue right.
Because that person seems a little bit like one of those psycho fanboys or fun girls.
So you don't want to be that person.
Even if you respect someone tremendously, you love their work.
There is a limit, right?
You don't want to say the same thing 20 times.
You don't want to tell the person how amazing they are.
Non stop for the next 5 minutes.
On the other hand, you don't want to go into another extreme, which I've seen a lot and I've experienced
it myself, where the other person tries to act cool.
It's like, Look, I'm cool, you know, like, I don't care about who you are, I'm cool.
And it often happens with high level individuals where someone wants to meet them.
And that person maybe is a fan of of that author or that speaker.
And instead of treating them with respect, it's almost like they try to downplay their accomplishments
and say, I'm this person, for example, and I want to meet someone famous.
And I would walk up and say, Hey, John, what's up?
What's going on, man?
Yeah, cool speech.
Well done.
Yeah, this was pretty, pretty good speech, man.
Hey, what are you doing after?
You want to.
You want to grab a beer?
It's almost like you're trying to play as if it's not a big deal, like you are at the same level.
But clearly there is no respect.
And as you can see, these are two different extremes.
You have a fanboy fan girl, and here you have a person who's just trying to be cool so much that they
just become cringing.
And, you know, as I said, I spent those situations in my life, you know, people, for example,
messaging me, telling me, Mr. Jimmy, you are the most amazing person in the world.
I watched all your videos.
You are incredible.
You are the best.
You are this, you are that.
I'm thinking, wow, okay, this is nice, but it's gone a little bit too far.
And then I get another message after a few days.
Oh, my God.
This video changed my life.
Another message after a few days.
Oh, my God, you are so handsome.
Another message.
Oh, my God, you are this.
And it's almost like I feel like, hold on a second.
I'm just a human being.
Like, if you only knew me, you would know that I make mistakes and I'm just a human, right?
So it makes me feel weird.
I definitely I can give them some advice, right?
If they ask me.
But I don't really want to meet that person.
I want to connect with them because it feels fake.
It feels it doesn't feel genuine.
It's like they they love the image of me that they created in their head.
But that image is not even real.
Right?
So so when you act like this, like a crazy fanboy or fun girl, you're not very likely to connect with
high level people.
On the other hand, if you try to act and force looking cool, it has a different yet similar effect.
So I had situations when someone would message me and say, Hey, bro, great videos, man.
Yo, let's jump on a call because looks like we have a lot to talk about.
Wood Tuesday 2 p.m. Eastern time or Friday 5:00 PM.
Work better for you.
I'm like, what is that like?
What the hell is that?
That person didn't introduce themselves.
They call me bro and every sentence they try to act too cool for school, right?
And now they give me those two days, they're using this old salesman tactic, basically giving you
two different time slots to make it more specific.
I'm like, I know all this psychology.
I know what you are doing.
I never take people like this seriously.
The only thing I'm thinking is that, well, this individual probably read some old book about sales
techniques and send the same message to a thousand other individuals.
I'm not interested.
Right.
My assistant will respond to that person.
I'm just going to move on.
I'm not going to waste my time.
So what you want to do is you want to be somewhere in between.
You want to always treat people with respect.
It doesn't matter who it is.
You want to treat people with respect, but at the same time, don't kiss --.
And I use this phrase on purpose because, well, some of you may not like the way I say it for some
of you, maybe too much, but it says it all.
A lot of people just kiss --.
They they just they just.
You're faking it.
They're faking it just to get to you.
You don't want to.
Be that person.
You want to be respectful, right?
But at the same time, if you admire someone, you want to tell them.
I'll give you an example.
So half a year ago, I wanted to reach out to this former Navy SEAL called Remi Adeleke.
So Remi Adeleke wrote an amazing book.
It's a bestseller called Transformed.
And now in this book, he describes his entire journey from living in Nigeria.
When he was a little kid, then his father died.
They had to move to the Bronx in New York.
Right?
He had nothing.
He was on the streets stealing at some point, got into into bad environment.
Eventually, fast forward and we're going to share the story here.
You've got to read the book.
It's a tremendous book.
But he became a Navy SEAL at some point and later on ended up playing in different movies.
So after I read his book, I was like, Wow, this is such an incredible book.
So what I did was I messaged him on Instagram, I commented on some of his photos, just wrought some
genuine comments, no essays, no 500 word essays, but also know I'm trying to be cool comments like
your bro.
Great video.
No, just genuine comments.
And then I popped him a private message and I just said something in the lines of, Hey, man, I just
want to let you know I have tremendous respect for you.
I read your story.
Love the audiobook.
Kudos said.
That's it.
That was a didn't expect anything in return.
But he sent me a message back and he said, Hey, man, I appreciate your message.
I'm curious to hear your feedback about the book.
Now, when I got that invitation to send him my feedback, I decided to record an audio message.
And I said something in the lines of, Hey, Remy, just want to let you know.
Once again, tremendous book.
I really, really enjoyed it.
Especially I enjoyed the part about X, Y and Z, blah, blah, blah.
I love the story about your mom and this and that.
So I, I went into some details, but I kept the message short was maybe 40, 52nd message and I gave
him genuine feedback, given him respect, showing my genuine admiration, but at the same time not
kissing --, not saying you are the best and you know everything.
No, you are human.
I'm a human.
I respect you.
That's it, right?
Let's talk.
So then he responded with an audio message and you know, I got this little thing going on, right?
I said something, he said something.
And at some point I popped him a short audio message and I allegedly said something in the lines of,
you know, Remy, I'm sure you get those requests all the time.
And I totally understand if you cannot do it, you may have different priorities.
But I tell you what, I love to jump on an interview call with you, deep dive, no -- conversational
interview where we're just going to talk about your story.
No tricky questions, no sponsors, none of that.
Just two guys have a great conversation because I'd love to promote you to my audience.
And you know what?
He responded.
He sent me an audio and he said, You know what, man?
I get those requests all the time.
You are right.
And I say no to most of them.
But tell you what, I'll say yes to you.
Let's do it.
It's going to be fun.
And I set it up and this is just one example.
I've done this many times with different people, and often my friends asked me, What is the secret?
How do you how do you manage to jump on a call with Bruce Lipton or the former SAS soldier?
All the other people like that are Urijah Faber, the UFC Hall of Famer.
How the hell do you get those people?
How do you talk to them?
How how do you make it happen?
And my response is always the same I'm just being me.
I'm being genuine.
I treat them with tremendous respect.
I respect them.
I admire them for many reasons, but at the same time, I treat them like human, okay?
They are human beings.
No one is perfect.
So I give them the respect they deserve, but I never kiss -- and I'm always being authentically me.
And I think this is what works.
I don't spend hours thinking how I'm going to send a message.
I listen to my intuition, I go for it, and I accept that if I don't get a response, it's not a big
deal.
But it's a pretty long video.
I actually didn't expect it to be this long, but since so many of you have been asking me about it,
I feel like this is valuable.
You know, I know that a lot of you want to reach out to potential mentors.
A lot of you want to expand your social circle and you just feel like you don't have what it takes or
you don't know how to do it and you don't come across well.
And some people, you know, they think you are weird.
Well, think about what I said in this video.
Think about it in the context of your life.
And if you use the advice provided in this video, I'm sure that you will find it easier to connect
with high level people.

--- Get Your Official Certificate & BONUS PDF Lecture ---

Wow.
It's been a crazy ride, as been a super long, comprehensive course.
And I just want to say massive congratulations to you for completing it.
This is one of my biggest, if not the single biggest courses.
And I have to say no, just the fact that you are watching this video, you know, it's like a badge
of honor, honestly.
It's a badge of honor because we live in a world where people start things, but they don't finish them.
So many people start things and they just don't finish right.
We live in a world where, you know, people no longer read books because, hey, it's just too much.
If you can read a summary, why read the book?
Actually, a lot of people don't even read summaries.
They just prefer to read tables.
Right?
Ten Biggest Lessons from the book.
And that's it because they say they don't want to waste time.
So we live in this crazy world where the attention span is very, very short and it's getting shorter
and shorter and shorter.
So the fact that you've been watching all of those videos, all of those sections, I do believe there
are more than ten sections in this course.
Wow.
Massive.
Congratulations now.
I also want to put more emphasis on the fact I said it many times before, but I feel like it's important
to repeat it.
That is about taking action, right?
This is a course about presentation skills.
What is public speaking or video presenting?
Addressing a group, whether it's virtual meeting or or regular gathering.
So it's clearly about taking actions, about going out there and communicating with other people.
So if you just take this course and you stay in the comfort of your home and you don't use those techniques
and strategies and mindset shifts and hacks, well, sure, you may feel better about yourself and you
will be equipped with extra knowledge.
I mean, obviously we learned a lot of stuff that you can use also in other realms, but at the same
time you would be doing yourself a disservice because the real power of this course is with taking action
as you take action as you practice.
And again, you don't need to practice.
I mentioned this in the practice section.
You don't have to practice on big stages.
If you, for example, are on a COVID lockdown right now and you can't leave your house, you can practice
during virtual gatherings, right.
If you are not currently presenting at any gathering, there are so many apps out there, you can just
go and you can talk to strangers.
You can join Virtual Toastmasters circles.
There's so many things you could do.
And then finally you can record presentations, literally you in front of your phone.
Not even a camera like this one, just set up the phone and just start recording those videos, practice
your presentations.
You can do all of that, and it's so important that you do it because the more you practice, the better
you will become.
You know, there's this old saying that practice makes perfect.
Not true.
Now, of course, there's no perfection.
I think there's the problem with that statement.
People say practice makes perfect.
We make this assumption that, well, perfection exists.
Therefore, if you feel like you are not perfect, well, maybe better, better not to do anything right.
Perfectionism often paralyzes people.
So I don't want you to embrace perfectionism.
It doesn't exist.
I want you to embrace perfect practice.
And the more you practice, the better.
So whenever you find an opportunity, I highly encourage you just to go out there and practice.
Now finally, I'm going to attach a PDF to this final lecture where you can find my website, you can
find my social media, you can find other resources.
Now I'm going to link up some coupons to my other courses.
I'm going to link up some other free resources as well that you can use in order to better your life.
But most importantly, I just want to say thank you so much.
It's been a pleasure.
I filmed this entire course on this island of La Palma.
Now the sun is going down, it's getting darker, you know, perfect setting for ending the course.
It's a beautiful place.
And I hope that in addition to learning a lot about presentation skills, I hope that you just enjoy
just just aesthetically.
You enjoyed watching those videos.
I hope that you felt a bit like you went on this adventure here on La Palma with me.
Let me know.
Give me your feedback.
I'm always really curious to hear what my students think about my courses and of course connect with
me on social media.
Now, if you are on LinkedIn, then definitely connect with me there.
And also if you are there and if you really enjoy this course, I would really appreciate a LinkedIn
recommendation if you could just go in there and write me a recommendation on LinkedIn and just say
why you enjoy this course and just be honest with me, just be honest.
I would really appreciate it.
And finally, you kind of connect with me on Instagram.
I mentioned this one time before in the course.
You know, Instagram is one of those places where I actually myself, without using any any assistance,
I go in there myself to do occasional live videos.
I check comments, I check my private messages.
So this is the place where you can connect with me and you can have a bit of interaction anyway.
Wow.
It's been a crazy.
Right.
It's it's a little bit sad to finish, but hey, I will be back.
I'll be coming back here to make more bonus.
Ariel.
I'm also going to be making extra videos in different places around the world.
You may see some extra material filmed in a studio, right?
You may see extra material filmed with my phone spontaneously sharing something with you.
You know, my goal is to always keep improving my courses.
For me, building a course is not just a one time thing.
It's not something that you just do one time, you release it, you forget about it, you move on.
You know, a lot of people like to talk about the passive income.
Oh, passive income.
Film it real quick and a studio really sit and forget about it.
I never liked that approach.
I think it's disrespectful to your audience.
I mean, release something just to make a bunch of money passively and forget about it.
I honestly feel like those people fail.
I believe in constant improvement, write constant re-evaluation of your content.
I always like to make sure that I go back, revisit what I do, and ask myself, How can I do it better?
What can I add?
Maybe I can change something, maybe I can improve, maybe I can add a little new twist into it, right?
So anyhow, I'll keep improving this course.
Once again, thank you for being a part of this journey and I hope to see you soon.
Thank you.

--- Here is What Can Happen When You Implement the Advice From This Course ---

He.
We'll go out.

--- Guided Meditation for Deep Sleep with Jimmy Naraine ---

My name is Jimmy Noreen.
And welcome to this night reset.
A space to finally let go.
Breathe and come back to yourself.
Let's be honest, most people don't know how to switch off.
They collapse, but they don't rest.
They go to sleep with their minds still sprinting.
But tonight we are doing it differently.
You've earned this.
You've been pushing and showing up.
Now you get to power down completely.
Take a slow, deep breath in.
And let it go one more time.
In.
And out.
One more, but slower this time.
In.
And slowly out.
Let your breath tell your nervous system.
It's over for today.
You are safe.
Before we drift deeper.
Take a moment to feel gratitude.
Real grounded gratitude for your health, for this body that carries you every day, even when you push
it hard for the people in your life.
Do what sustains when it mattered.
The ones who believed in you when you didn't.
Gratitude for the things that once felt impossible but somehow became Your reality.
For the storms you've already walked through.
For the hard times that eventually passed.
Because they always do.
And now think of one small win from today.
Something you did right.
Maybe you pushed through when you didn't feel like it.
Maybe you kept your word.
Maybe you simply showed up.
Let that sink in.
That quiet pride without ego.
The calm satisfaction of knowing you did something that mattered even if no one saw it.
Breathe it in and let your whole body feel it before you begin to rest.
Now let's go through the body.
Not rushing, not fixing anything.
Just letting go.
Start with your forehead.
Notice the tension that's been hiding there all day.
Soften it.
Let it smooth out.
Your eyes.
Let them be heavy.
You don't need to take any more information tonight.
Your cheeks, your jaw.
Unclench them.
You've said enough words for one day.
Let silence take over.
Feel the back of your head sinking into the pillow neck.
Long, loose, supported.
Let your shoulders drop.
Not halfway all the way.
Let gravity take the load off.
Move down to your chest.
Feel your breath move.
Fluid.
Slow.
Effortless.
No performance.
This is what peace feels like.
Not fireworks.
Just calm expression.
Your upper back.
Let it soften.
Feel the muscles loosen with every breath.
Your ribs and belly move in one rhythm.
Inhale.
Expand.
Exhale.
Release.
Nothing forced, just a natural flow.
Now your lower back.
Let it go to.
Feel the weight of the day sliding off you like water.
Running down a smooth rock.
Your hips sink deeper into the mattress.
Safe.
Supported.
Steady.
As for the body.
Stores.
Emotion.
Tension.
Unfinished stories.
Let your breath reach that space.
And with every exhale, let it all dissolve quietly.
Completely.
Simply now your arms from shoulders to elbows to wrists.
Let the weight sink into the surface beneath you.
Feel the muscles switch off one by one.
Your hands rest open.
Faultless.
No need to hold.
No need to grab or control anything right now.
Just stillness.
Your tie's heavy and steady.
If carried you for a lot, let them rest.
Now let the strength settle.
Your knees loose.
Easy.
They don't have to brace for impact Impacts tonight.
Feel your calves and release the pull.
You don't need to run anywhere.
You've already arrived.
Relax.
Now your ankles soft and guarded.
And your feet from heels to arches to toes.
Let them spread and melt and sink deeper into the ground beneath you.
The earth has you.
You can let go now.
Now.
Just breathe in through your nose.
And out through your mouth.
No effort, no agenda.
Just breathing in through your nose.
And out through your mouth.
You've done enough.
You don't need to fix anything.
You don't need to prove anything.
The world can wait.
And now, as you breathe, tell yourself I am safe.
I'm done for today.
I've earned my rest.
If thoughts come, don't fight them.
They are just echoes.
Let them float by.
You don't need to control them.
You are not your thoughts.
You are the space.
They move through every breath takes you deeper.
Every exhale grounds you further.
Your heart slows.
Your mind softens.
And the weight of the day fades out.
Let yourself sink fully.
You don't need to escape life.
You just need to recover from it.
That's what this moment is for.
Relax.
You earned this rest.
You earned this silence.
You earned this peace.
Keep breathing in.
And out and let everything go.
You did enough.
You are enough.
Now rest.
Like someone who knows their worth.
Good night.

--- Anxiety Release Guided Meditation Session with Jimmy Naraine ---

My name is Jimmy Noreen.
If you are feeling anxious right now, tight chest racing.
Thoughts that restlessness you cannot quite explain.
It's okay.
You are not broken.
You are just human.
Every person you've ever admired has felt this too.
The pressure, the doubt, the unease that seems to come out of nowhere.
It's just your body doing what it was built to do.
Scan for danger.
Stay alert.
Keep you alive.
It's trying to help you.
It just forgot that you are safe now.
So there is nothing wrong with you.
You are not weak.
You are not losing it.
You are simply feeling what every strong person feels when their system is on overdrive.
Your body is just trying to protect you, even if it's overreacting a little.
So before you try to fix anything, let's just pause.
You deserve a rest.
You deserve a reset.
You've been carrying more than you realize.
And right now you get to put it down.
Take a slow, steady breath in through your nose.
Hold it for a moment.
And exhale through your mouth.
Long and slow.
Like you are letting go of the day itself.
Do it again.
And through your nose.
Hold.
And out even longer this time.
That's right.
Take a deep breath in.
Hold.
And breathe out all the tension.
Let the world wait for you.
For once you've earned this moment to breathe.
To feel calm.
To come back home to yourself.
You may feel your heart racing, your chest tight, your thoughts spinning.
But that's okay.
Nothing is wrong with you.
This is your nervous system doing exactly what it was designed to do.
It is trying to protect you.
But here is the thing.
Right now, there is no tiger in the room.
No danger, no threat.
Just sensations.
Echoes of old survival wiring.
So let's remind your body that it can relax now.
There is nothing to chase, nothing to defend.
Just you breathing, existing right here.
The world can wait.
Breathe in through your nose slowly.
Feel the cool air filling your lungs.
Let your ribs expand sideways, front and back like you are creating space inside your body.
And then hold it there for a moment.
Let that remind your system what calm and grounded energy feels like.
Now let go for your mouth.
Long and steady and relaxed, like you are releasing all the tension you've been holding.
Just like air.
Leaving a balloon.
Smooth and controlled.
Do it again and free your nose.
Feel your chest rise.
Your belly.
Lift.
Halt!
And out.
Slower this time.
Every exhale tells your body we are safe.
We can relax.
Every time you breathe like this, you are sending a signal to your brain.
We are safe now.
And to brain listens.
Maybe not instantly, but it always listens.
Now place one hand on your chest and one on your belly.
Notice the rhythm.
Even if it feels shaky, it's still yours.
Even if it's fast, it's proof that you are alive.
You don't have to fight the anxiety.
You don't have to fix it.
You just have to stop believing the story it's telling.
Because that's what anxiety really is a story.
A forecast pretending to be the truth.
A movie your mind plays on repeat, convincing you that something terrible is about to happen.
But if you pause the movie and look around, reality is usually peaceful.
The walls are still.
The air moves softly.
You are still here.
Now breathe into that.
Slowly.
In.
And out.
And again.
Slowly.
In.
And out.
And notice how every breath anchors you back into the moment.
The only place anxiety cannot control.
Whatever you are feeling.
It's temporary.
No wave lasts forever.
And you've already survived every single one before this.
Let your shoulders drop.
Unclench your jaw.
Let the breath become effortless.
You may notice the thoughts trying to pull you again.
What if this never goes away?
What if I can't handle it?
That's Anxiety's favorite trick to make you believe it's permanent.
But it's not.
You've felt this before.
And every time it passed, this one will too.
You mentioned those thoughts as clouds passing through the sky.
You don't chase clouds.
You just watch them drift by.
You are the sky.
Calm.
Just unchanged.
The clouds never touch who you truly are.
So keep breathing in.
And out.
Keep breathing.
In.
And out.
Let the body soften.
Let the breath do the work.
You don't need to control anything.
It's about trust.
Now bring to mind one simple truth.
If your body can create this much intensity from a thought, imagine what it can create from calm,
grounded energy.
Now that is power.
You are not broken.
You are built for survival.
You are just learning to tell your system we are safe now.
Breathe into that truth.
And as your belly settles, remind yourself quietly but firmly.
I'm safe.
I'm here.
I felt this before, and it passed.
I can handle this.
I'm a legend in the making.
Each phrase is a code for your nervous system.
Repeat whichever one feels right.
Not as a mantra of hope, but as a statement of fact.
Now slowly bring awareness back to your surroundings.
Feel the air brushing against your skin.
The weight of your body supported beneath you.
The quiet rhythm of your breath anchoring you in this moment.
There may still be a little bit of that storm in the distance, but notice how it doesn't affect you
the way it did 15 minutes ago.
You've created space between you and the noise.
The storm can keep moving.
It just doesn't move you anymore.
Take one final deep breath in.
And exhale everything you've been holding.
One more time.
Breathe in positive energy.
And breathe out all the stress.
Again.
Positive energy in.
And stress out.
Now relax.
You are here.
You are alive.
You are enough.
This is your friend, Jimmy.
Noreen.
Anytime that anxiety wave shows up.
You can come back here to your breath, to your body, to your truth.
You don't have to be fearless.
Just remember, fear doesn't run the show.
You do.
You are the master of your life.
Now take a deep breath in.
And feel that strength sitting quietly inside you again.
It was never gone.
It just needed your attention.
You faced challenges in the past and came out sharper every time.
So walk back into the world with that calm fire.
IRE, calm, confidence and composure.
No rush, no noise.
Just quiet power and motion.
You are ready.
You've always been ready.

--- The Grounded Warrior Reset - Guided Meditation with Jimmy Naraine ---

The grounded warrior.
Reset.
My name is Jimmy Narin and welcome to this grounded warrior.
Reset, a powerful body scan meditation.
Wherever you are right now, take a deep breath in.
And as you exhale, let go of everything that doesn't serve you again.
Inhale confidence.
And exhale tension.
Whatever happened today is done.
Whatever may happen tomorrow, it's not here yet.
Right now there is only this moment.
Feel the ground beneath you.
Notice how the earth supports you without asking for anything in return.
Remember this.
The universe is not against you.
It's been conspiring for you all along.
And even if you can't see the results yet, the roots are growing underground.
The strongest trees always take their time.
Now bring awareness to the body.
Slowly, gently.
From the top of your head to the bottom of your feet.
There is nothing you need to do, nothing to fix.
Just observe.
Start with the crown of your head.
Imagine a wave of calm energy flowing downward, melting away tension.
Your forehead softens.
This space between your eyebrows.
releases your jaw unclenches and let it hang loose.
Your tongue rests gently behind your teeth.
Feel your neck relaxing.
Every exhale, releasing more.
Now your shoulders.
Drop them down and let the gravity do the work.
Feel your chest expand as you inhale and your belly rise.
That's power breathing.
Inhale.
Confidence.
Halt.
Exhale everything that's not yours.
Breathe in confidence.
Halt and get rid of everything that is not yours.
Bring awareness into your arms.
Notice how the muscles in your upper arms begin to soften.
That quiet strength that carries you through life.
Right now it's allowed to rest.
Feel the warmth moving past your elbows, flowing like liquid.
Calm down into your forearms.
If you sense a gentle tingling that your nervous system shifting gears from tension to release.
Now let that wave of awareness reach your hands.
The palms that touch, hold, create.
Feel.
Energy pulsing there.
Steady.
Alive.
Peaceful.
And let it move through your fingertips.
As if each finger were exhaling stress one by one.
You've used your hands to build, to create, to type, to hold on.
Right now they don't have to do anything.
They can't simply rest.
Notice any tingling warmth.
Heaviness.
That's energy releasing.
That's your body saying thank you.
Now bring your focus to your back and spine.
Feel the natural curve of your back.
Support it.
Steady.
Strong.
Let each vertebra line up with the next.
Like a chain of light running down your center.
That's your backbone.
Literally and symbolically.
It's been holding you up through everything.
Imagine that with every exhale, your spine grows softer, but your presence grows taller.
That's what true strength feels like.
Relaxed but unshakable.
Now move your awareness to your stomach.
Soft, open and safe.
Most of us carry tension here without realizing it.
The silent armor of control.
Right now you can drop that armor.
Breathe deep into your belly.
Feel it gently expand with every inhale and deflate with every exhale.
Let that rhythm remind you this is how calm power feels.
Quiet.
Effortless.
Grounded.
it.
Let your diaphragm move freely.
Massaging your inner organs.
Signaling your body that you are safe.
That there is nothing to fight with.
Every breath.
Your core becomes a center of peace.
Stable, confident and alive.
Move your awareness down into your hips.
This is where emotions hide the weight of old tension and old memories.
Old stories.
Breathe into them.
Let the air reach those deeper layers.
With every exhale, release what no longer belongs to you.
There is no need to analyze or label it.
Just let it melt away.
One breath at a time.
Your hips are the bridge between your upper and lower body.
Between movement and stillness.
And let them feel free again.
Now bring your focus to your thighs.
They've carried you through so much for every challenge.
Let them rest.
Let them feel strong but formless.
Move down to your knees.
The joints of flexibility and humility.
Knees bent so you don't break.
Offer them gratitude.
For every time they supported you.
When life felt heavy.
Now your calves.
The quiet engines of motion.
Let them unwind.
You don't need to run anywhere right now.
You can just relax.
And finally, your feet, the roots of your body, feel the subtle pressure of the ground beneath you.
Imagine roots extending from your soles, spreading wide and deep into the earth.
Every inhale nourishes them.
Every exhale anchors them further.
You are grounded.
You are unshakable.
No matter what life throws your way.
You are rooted right here, right now.
And the stillness of this present moment.
Take a deep breath in.
Hold and out.
Again.
Breathe in confidence.
Hold and breathe out.
Stress.
One more time.
Deep breath in.
Hold.
And out.
Let each breath remind you that you are here.
You are alive.
You are safe.
For the next minute, just breathe and be.
No goals, no to do lists.
No pressure, no expectations.
Only presence.
Slowly bring your awareness back.
Take a final deep breath in.
Feel your body awake again from head to toe.
Move your fingers while your shoulders.
And when you are ready, open your eyes.
You are grounded.
You are powerful.
You are exactly where you need to be.
My name is Jimmy Naraine.
If this meditation helped you reconnect with yourself, breathe that in and carry it with you today.

--- What Leader Do You Want To Become? ---

One of the most important questions you have to ask yourself as a leader or an aspiring leader is what
type of leader do you actually want to become?
What is your vision for yourself as a leader?
Because when you really think about it, unfortunately most of us sleepwalk through life.
We never really take the time to to pause and to ponder and to define who we want to become as leaders,
what types of qualities we want to adopt, and also what are the characteristics that we want to get
rid of.
And this is so important because when you create that vision for your ideal future self as a leader,
you are more likely to actually get there because this gives you a tremendous amount of clarity, you
know where you are heading.
Therefore, it's easier for you to reverse engineer that and to figure out what you have to do on a
daily basis to actually get there.
And the extra section about productivity, I'm talking about quite a lot, you know, this importance
of reverse engineering, what you plan to do in order to make it more likely that you will accomplish
whatever it is that you have your eyes on.
So my question for you is again, what type of leader do you want to become?
And the ideal situation and here is a very cool exercise that will be very revealing.
So I want you to imagine that you are one of your team members, you are one of your subordinates.
And imagine that 12 months from now someone asks that person, Hey, so tell me your leader, your manager,
how is that person like you Imagine someone asks that person about you.
How are you as a leader 12 months from now and just write it down?
Write down whatever they would say about you in the ideal situation.
So essentially, what type of leader do you want to become?
What are your characteristics?
What are your qualities?
But write it down as if you are a different person describing yourself.
And when you do it, it's going to be very revealing.
Now, you may realize that a lot of those qualities you already have, which is great, right?
It's always nice to have that realization.
Oh wow.
Actually, I possess a lot of those characteristics, but most probably you will realize that there
are certain characteristics, certain traits that you haven't developed yet, and this will help you
to refocus, to recalibrate your energy, and to gain a lot of awareness that you know what, actually,
at least now I know what am I after?
This is so powerful.
I highly recommend that you do this exercise.
It's one of the most powerful exercises.
It's simple.
It's very simple, but sometimes the most powerful things are actually very simple.

--- Context is Everything when You Read People ---

Let's talk about one of the most anticipated topics.
So, Jimi.
How do I read people?
A lot of people ask me, Hey, Jimi, so I want to read my employees When I negotiate.
I want to be able to read them.
I want to figure out their body language.
How do I do it?
Now, a lot of the things we discussed will already give you an understanding of body language, and
those things will make it easier for you to read people.
But here's the first important thing Make sure that you analyze other people's body language in the
right context.
Right context is everything.
If you take context out of the equation, you may make some really big mistakes.
You may misjudge people very quickly.
Now, there are certain common nonverbal behaviors that project various things.
But again, remember, there are exceptions to those rules.
So, for instance, typically when people are open, when they don't have anything to hide, they maintain
an open position, Right?
Maintain an open position.
They show their palms.
So when someone is talking to you and they are open, it usually means they feel comfortable.
They're not trying to hide anything.
Right.
If you're talking to someone, on the other hand, then suddenly you ask them, Hey, what do you think
about this idea?
And they are open.
And then suddenly the moment you ask them, they say, Yeah, you know what?
I like this idea a lot.
I like it a lot.
And they cross their arms, you know, they're verbal, says one thing, but nonverbal says something
else, right?
They said, I like your idea.
I agree with you.
But do they really agree with you?
Why did they cross their arms?
Now take it with a pinch of salt.
Maybe they just got caught.
So again, context is everything.
If you just had dinner and you are walking back and it's pretty chilly and wind is blowing and they
did this, people get caught.
It's fine.
Right?
You know, people want to maintain an open position even if it starts snowing.
So everything has to be considered in the right context.
But if you are in a room with the same temperature and that person consistently maintains an open,
positive position, they smile right?
They're very, very nice, very, very open to you.
And then you ask them a question and they say, I agree with you or yes, I want to do it right.
Or they say, No, it wasn't me, I didn't do that thing.
And the moment they say it, they cross their arms and you and you can sense their demeanor changing.
Suddenly they look down.
Maybe they seem a bit more tense.
That should tell you something.
Maybe they are not completely genuine.
I'm not saying this is always the case, but that is certainly a red flag.
And if that happens, what you can do is, well, you can test them, you can switch the topic, you
can talk about something completely different and observe their body language.
And now if suddenly they open up again, right, you change the topic, they open up.
They are like this positive, smiley, happy, right?
No tension.
And then after a few minutes, you bring that topic back, that that that topic that made them cross
their arms and you noticed tension once again.
And they cross their arms and they look down and there's a bit of tension now there's a pattern.
Something is wrong.
Something is in there.
So that's how you want to read other people.
If, for instance, you are interviewing someone for a new position and you ask them about different
things, and then at some point you ask them about that particular job, you say, Hey, so why did
you quit?
Right?
Like, it's a nice company.
It's a great company.
And in fact, they had a great position.
Why did you leave and the money ask that question again.
They change their body language, they cross their arms, or even worse, they start scratching their
face.
They do things like that, right?
Usually those signals are the signals of distress.
You don't feel comfortable.
You don't know what to do with your hands, Right?
You do this.
Sometimes people, when they lie, they covered their mouths.
Now, when you look at small kids, when you catch kids lie.
Oftentimes they just covered their mouth.
And it's pretty funny to see that.
Now, obviously, as adults, we don't do it.
We develop not to not to fully cover our mouths.
But this is why oftentimes when we don't feel very comfortable, we try to do something like this,
Right?
We want to almost it's almost like we want to cover our face nonverbal.
We feel this urge to cover our mouth because we know we are lying like we are saying something that
we don't really it's not really true, right?
It's not fully genuine.
It may not be a flat out lie, but maybe we are not fully genuine.
So feel more comfortable trying to cover our mouth.
So when you notice someone, you know, having those weird twitches and touching their eyes and touching
their face and covering their mouth, that can tell you something.
Now, again, as I said, everything in the right context.
Maybe that person has contact lenses, eye work, contact lenses.
Sometimes they get dry.
And I have those situations sometimes when I'm talking to someone and my contact lens is getting really
dry and I have to kind of do something like this and touch my eye.
And I'm aware how that looks.
But in that case, I usually just say, you know, my contact lens is just missing my eye.
I'm sorry for that.
Right.
So that person knows because I understand the psychology behind it.
And I know that if I don't mention it, that person, even subconsciously, even without knowing body
language, that person may feel, I should say feel, you know, he's not very genuine.
He keeps scratching his eyes.
Something is wrong.
So again, everything in the right context.
But back to that job interview example, right.
If that person suddenly starts scratching their eyes or face or covering their mouth again, you can
test them, You can switch the topic.
You can talk about something else.
Now, if you talk about something completely different and relate it, not a tricky question.
You talk about their passion, say what are you passionate about?
And they talk about it.
And at some point again, they scratch their face.
Maybe they have some issue, maybe they have itchy skin, maybe there's something in there.
However, if they're completely fine, open up, smiling, confident, and then again, you ask them
about that job position that they decided to give up.
And again, they cross their arms.
They do this.
Okay.
Now that is telling you something.
There is some type of pattern in there.
Now, another thing to consider, this is important.
Some people have traumas and certain things trigger them.
And I know this from my own experience because, you know, like everyone else, I have some traumas,
I work through them, but everyone has some traumas in there.
Some people have more traumas and bigger ones than others.
But for instance, there are people out there who get triggered by certain things.
For instance, they had a really terrible situation at school when the teacher called them up in front
of the rest of the class and said, You read that book right now, and maybe that person was stuttering
and, you know, ask her or she's stuttering in front of the entire class.
Everyone is laughing and the teacher wouldn't give up.
Now, you keep keep trying, keep reading.
Right.
And because of that, they have a trauma.
And whenever they meet and I met so many people like this, the moment they meet someone who reminds
them of that teacher and says, You do this or you do that deer in the headlights, right.
They feel that trauma coming back to them.
So, for instance, if you interview that person and you ask a question, it may not even be about that
job role.
It may be just that feeling they get looking at your eyes, your facial expression, the way you ask
that question that reminds them of that situation with a teacher, for instance, and that may trigger
this anxious response where they like this and they feel the butterflies and now they are tense.
So now you may think that they are lying to you.
They're not fully genuine, but maybe they are.
They just just have a trauma.
And this is just some trigger, just some reminder of what they went through.
So remember about this, it's so important to judge the body language of other people in the right context.
So, so important.

--- Don’t Reinvent the Wheel: Why & How To Emulate Top  Leaders ---

Here is another really important question Who would you like to emulate as a leader?
What are the leaders out there that you really admire?
And if I say this, I don't mean leaders that you want to emulate 100% because you don't want to copy
someone else, right?
You are your own unique self.
You don't just want to copy someone else.
But what you want to do is you want to look at other leaders that you really admire for very specific
things and you want to figure out how you can emulate them.
You want to figure out what are the characteristics, the qualities about them, certain behaviors that
you would like to emulate in your own life.
You would like to borrow, in a sense.
So again, it's not about copying somebody else and their leadership style.
It's about finding various people, not just one person, but various leaders that you admire for very
specific things.
So for instance, maybe there's one particular leader that you know personally that you admire for their
unstoppable confidence.
Perhaps that person is always really confident, humble, yet very confident that person, they just
believe in themselves so much.
And you love that and you'd like to be more like that.
If that's the case, write down their name.
Write down their name.
Maybe there's another person that you really admire for the fact that they are great at organizing people,
they are great at connecting people, and there's a very important leadership quality.
Being able to put people together in the right way, make people comfortable with one another.
Maybe there's a person like this that, you know, great, right?
That person's name down.
Perhaps there is a famous person that you really admire, maybe a bestselling author, perhaps a CEO
of a company, maybe some type of big time serial entrepreneur that you haven't met personally, but
you read that person's books, you saw that person's videos, and you really admire them for certain
quality, maybe their presentation skills or their body language or their charisma or charm or whatever
it is again, right, that person's name down.
So once you write all of those names down, I want you to write down those qualities, those characteristics,
traits that you want to emulate about those people.
And I want you to be very specific.
I want you to think about specific examples, case studies of when you were inspired by that particular
leader.
And I want you to take a step further and I want you to go deep within and ask yourself, okay, I really
admire this person for this particular quality.
How could I borrow that quality right, and implement it in my own life and my own leadership?
You really want to ponder about?
You want to be active about it.
It's not just about writing a few things down and then moving on.
I want you to write those things down and then really go deeper then and legitimately ask yourself,
How can I borrow some of that?
How can I implement this into my life?
If there's somebody that you really admire for their ability, for instance, to inspire their team,
ask yourself, How could I inspire my team more like that person X or person Y?
And when you ponder about it, you will start seeing some solutions.
You will start developing a roadmap.
And what I want you to do is I want you to revisit those notes and also what I talked about in the previous
video about somebody else describing you as a leader.
12 months from now, I want you to revisit those things frequently because I want you to keep reminding
yourself, what is that Northern Star in a sense, Right?
What do you want to accomplish as a leader?
Who do you want to become as a leader?
And by the way, I say, who do you want to become?
Because if you want to accomplish certain things, it all starts from within.
If you want your team to do better, if you want your team to have more power, more confidence, right?
If you want your team to be more motivated to just go out there.
Right, and and try to make things happen.
It all starts with you as a leader, and this is why it's so important to do those exercises, to create
a compelling vision, to figure out who do you want to become as a leader and what types of other leaders
do you want to emulate in order to get better and better and better?
So keep reminding yourself, and this will help you to calibrate your actions and to calibrate your
personal development.

--- “Jimmy, I don’t have a leadership title. Can I benefit from this course?” ---

Let's address the big elephant in the room.
So a lot of people ask me.
Hey, Jimmy.
So I would love to take this course, but is it for me?
Even if I'm not a leader, I don't manage a big company.
I don't even have a team.
But I'm interested in this topic.
Can I benefit from this course?
And the simple answer is yes, you will benefit from it.
And there are a couple of different reasons.
So number one, it is not just for leaders, but also for aspiring leaders.
So if you want to be a leader at some point in your life, you will definitely benefit from this course.
Secondly, this course is also about soft business skills.
As you will see a lot of the principles and strategies and tools I'm going to be talking about in this
course will help you with your overall personal development and especially with your business life.
For instance, we will be talking about being more confident.
We're going to talk about confidently addressing groups of people.
I'm going to teach you about body language, about proper communication, about assertiveness.
So we will talk about a lot of different things that apply to other realms in life, for instance,
productivity.
So, you know, by taking this course, sure, you will develop certain leadership qualities, but at
the same time you will learn how to better your life overall.
And finally, this course is also about self leadership, because when you really think about it, if
you want to lead other people, you have to first lead yourself.
You have to understand yourself better and you have to constantly become the best version of yourself.
And this course will take you on that journey.
And by the way, also this course is not just about formal leadership.
It's not just about you being a leader with a title, but you can also become an everyday leader without
a title, right?
We all have those situations where that require leadership.
And oftentimes what happens is that when you face certain predicament, a lot of people are kind of
looking around, waiting for a leader, but no one steps up.
So you want to make sure that you become that person that steps up.
So let's say that your flight got canceled.
It's late at night and the airline is not providing any information.
Everyone is complaining, right?
Everyone is getting mad, but no one is trying to fix the problem.
Now, it's an opportunity for you to be that everyday leader without a title, right?
This is an opportunity for you to diplomatically talk to the airline and try to figure it out for everyone.
And once you get certain update, to be able to confidently summon all the people involved and say,
Hey, listen, everyone, I just talked to the airline representatives and this is what they told me,
right?
So there are plenty of examples.
Of course, we're going to get deep into it during this course.
But I just wanted to address this very common question.
Hey, Jimmy, can I take this course?
Can I benefit from it?
Simple answer is yes.
You will benefit from this course.
And I'm so, so excited that you are here with me.

--- Create Your Leadership Log: Why & How ---

Let me tell you about a tool that most leaders unfortunately don't use, But if you implement, it is
going to be a game changer in your leadership and as your leadership lock.
So let's face it, we all make mistakes as leaders, but at the same time, we all have successes as
leaders from time to time.
Right.
The question is, do you track any of those things?
And the reality is that most people don't, Right?
Most people, most leaders, whenever they have some type of success, they put themselves on the shoulder.
Great.
I made it and they move on.
On the other hand, when we fail in our leadership, it's very easy to verbally bully ourselves.
So it's easy to get into this downward negative spiral and keep talking to ourselves in a very negative
way.
Hey, you failed again.
You are a failure, right?
Oftentimes we make it about ourselves.
We have one failure and now we turn it into our identity and it's so easy to dwell on it, but do we
actually learn from it?
And there's a big difference, right, between dwelling and learning from failures.
And unfortunately, a lot of us, we ponder, you know, I failed once again and I'm this and I'm that,
but we don't actively try to learn from that failure.
So Leadership lock helps you with that.
So what it is, is it's basically documenting both your successes and your failures.
So whenever you have some type of success as a leader, don't allow it to fade into oblivion.
But instead take that piece of paper, ideally create a journal.
And I highly encourage you for this specific purpose.
Have a very nice looking physical journal.
It's going to make a difference.
It's going to feel good to use it and write it down in that journal.
Write down why you succeed it.
What?
Elaborate on it.
How does it make you feel?
What contributed to that particular success?
Right.
You want to break it down.
Now, On the other hand, when you fail in your leadership, as I mentioned, it's very easy to verbally
bully yourself.
On the flip side, it's also easy to kind of forget about it.
Try not to think about it and move on.
But instead, what I encourage you to do is to write it down in your journal.
Write down that mistake that you've made and analyze it.
Take a little bit of time to figure out what went wrong.
Why did you fail in your leadership?
Because.
But it takes some time to really pause and to reflect why that particular thing didn't work out.
Guess what?
That's going to be a lesson for the future.
Now, it may be very tempting for you to say, okay, Jimmy, I get it, it makes sense, but I'm going
to remember about it.
Well, the reality is that our memories are very transient, right?
A lot of things come in.
Not so many things stay in.
Let's face it, unless you're one of those rare exceptions and you have an incredible memory.
But still, still, even if you have an incredible memory, you don't necessarily have all of those
lessons under your sleeve, Right.
You want to have direct access to those lessons that you are learning.
So when you write down all of those successes, when you break them down, right, when you figure out
why did that happen, why did I manage to succeed?
And at the same time, you write down some of those mistakes and you reverse engineer them and you figure
out, okay, why did I fail at this?
Why did I fail in my leadership When you have it in there, that book, that diary you have will, in
a sense serve as a guidebook for a better future, because now you have all this wisdom and you can
review it from time to time.
And it's powerful.
I have to tell you, from my personal experience, I truly believe in writing things down.
I have all types of journals.
Every time you put things down on paper or in some type of document, you have to clarify your thinking.
You know, I have journals, I have lists with hundreds and hundreds of various stories lessons.
And I have to tell you, by creating content like this, this in itself is constant reinforcement.
So in a way, as I'm teaching you about leadership, I'm also relearning a lot of those principles.
It's incredible what happens.
For instance, you know, I have courses on body language and I notice whenever I talk about body language,
I have a better posture.
I realize I pay more attention to myself because we are just human.
Just because we learned something once doesn't mean it's going to stick forever.
We have to keep reminding ourselves of the most important concepts of the most important lessons.
We have to keep reinforcing everything that we are learning.
So when you create that journal, right, that leadership lock, I guarantee you it's going to be so
helpful.
And one day in the future, a few years from now, you will look back and you're going to say to yourself,
Wow, I'm so happy I started this because this is a gold mine.

--- The “Everyday Leader” Mindset ---

I couldn't possibly create a section about mindset of a leader without talking about everyday leadership.
Because you see, a lot of people have a misconception that if you want to be a leader, you have to
have a formal title, you have to be a CEO of a company, or perhaps you have to be a manager or you
have to be some type of some type of formal leader.
But the reality is that we all have an opportunity to be everyday leaders.
You could be 70 years old or you could be 15 years old watching this and you could still be a leader
without a formal title because leadership is a mindset, right?
It's a mindset of being proactive and also feeling responsible for other people, having that sense
of, you know, what is not just me in this world.
There are other people and I want other people to do well.
I want other people to do well.
It's not me, it's we we go together, right?
It's about going a step further.
It's about taking responsibility.
It's about taking ownership.
It's about having the willingness to essentially make two plus two equal 22 or perhaps even 222.
Right.
The synergy effect.
So let's talk about everyday leadership, because, you know, we all have the situations when we could
exercise everyday leadership, but you'd be surprised.
There are plenty of situations every single day that require everyday leadership.
But unfortunately, most people don't think about it this way.
Most people are oblivious to the fact that they could exercise their everyday leadership.
So random situation.
I'm going to give you a situation from my past, right?
I was one of those islands many years ago.
We are driving with my friend.
We are organizing adventure masterminds here and we were scouting the place and at some point there
was a big traffic jam on the mountain.
Very unusual.
Normally there is no traffic here and everyone was just honking.
Everyone was going crazy, popping right honking like crazy as if it's going to help anything.
And at some point I realized, okay, clearly something's going on in there.
I see some police cars.
Okay, let's figure out what is happening, because otherwise we are going to go crazy with all the
honking.
So I left the car.
I went all the way there.
I talked to the police.
I asked them, Hey, listen, I see something's happening here.
Can you please let me know what's happening and when we will be able to pass?
They explained the matter.
I don't remember exactly.
They said something in the lines of, Hey, in the next 10 minutes we're going to let everyone through.
So what I did was on the way back to my car, I stopped at every car and I said, Hey, listen, in
10 minutes they're going to open.
It's fine.
Hey, in 10 minutes they're going to open.
Hey, in 10 minutes they're going to open now.
I passed my car and I kept going and I told everyone what was happening.
Suddenly, no honking.
And I could give you plenty of those situations.
You know, being at the airport, for instance, the flight is canceled.
Everyone is complaining, but no one is trying to figure out what actually happened and what we can
do.
Right.
So, again, this is an opportunity to exercise your everyday leadership.
You don't need a title at that airport.
You just need the willingness to take ownership of the situation, in which case, you know, ideally
you go in there, you talk to the airline representatives or you talk to the airport officials in a
very diplomatic way.
No crazy motions, compost.
You talk to them, you figure out what's happening, and then you go in front of the entire crowd and
now you raise your hands, you raise your voice and you tell everyone, listen, everyone, I just talked
to the airport officials.
They said that flights are canceled due to bad weather or whatever it is.
Right.
They're going to provide more information in the next 20 minutes.
Most likely, we will stay in the hotel.
We are going to get vouchers.
And guess what?
Now, you saved everyone a lot of drama and a lot of time.
Why?
Because you are that everyday leader rather than just waiting there like a sheep.
You decided to take that opportunity to figure out what's going on.
So there are opportunities in any predicament like this.
And I encourage you, especially those of you watching this, who are not officially in leadership positions,
I'm aware that a lot of people watching this course, you are not an official leader yet, but you want
to learn about leadership skills because you want to improve yourself.
You want to understand your leaders better, and you also aspire to be a leader.
So I'm here to tell you that you don't have to wait for that moment when you will have your own company
or when you will be promoted to be a manager.
You don't have to wait for that moment.
You can be a leader right here and right now.
In fact, in your household, within your group of friends, you can be a leader.
Now it's about your mindset.
So whenever there is a situation, some type of predicament, some type of challenge where everyone
is losing their composure, everyone has gone crazy.
Everyone is running around like a headless chicken, chaotic, not knowing what is happening, and rather
than focusing on the solution.
Focusing on the problem.
Be that rare person who slows down, takes a deep breath, assesses the situation, actually detaches
him or herself, as we talked about one of the other videos, right.
You detach yourself from the situation and you analyze the situation.
You ask yourself, okay, what a leader would do in this situation, what is the right thing to do?
And then you do it.
Then you do it.
And, you know, sometimes it may be uncomfortable.
This example I gave you with the airport with a canceled flight, I know it can be nerve wracking for
a lot of people.
You're already stressed out.
You want to get on that plane.
You may be afraid of public speaking, Right?
So you don't want to speak up to the people in front of you.
Maybe you are afraid to to rough any feathers and you know, you're afraid to speak to to people who
have more authority than you.
I don't know.
It could be any of those things.
But in those situations you have an opportunity to push your comfort zone and to embrace that everyday
leadership.
And I have to tell you, every time you do it, you will become more powerful.
These will serve as some incredible lessons.
When I was very young, I had a bunch of those situations.
It wasn't easy.
In fact, it was very challenging, especially when you are in a predicament and there are perhaps 50
other people and you are the youngest person there.
But no one has taken charge.
No one.
So the question is, will you also be like a sheep?
Will you also think to yourself, you know, no one is taking charge, but I don't know what to do and
I'm not going to do anything because I'm the youngest here?
Or will you make a decision?
You know what?
No one is taking charge.
I guess I will be that person.
Let me assess the situation, Take a few deep breaths, compose myself, and then do whatever has to
be done.
Whenever you do those things, your leadership muscle will grow and those types of situations will prepare
you tremendously for those official leadership titles.
But also, if you are officially a leader watching this video, perhaps you have your own company,
maybe you manage a big company or a CEO or a VP or whatever it is.
Right?
Think about this, because I've also seen situations where people who are amazing leaders in their organizations
fail to be everyday leaders.
It's almost like the moment you leave the office, you leave without that leadership, right?
So if that's you, if you can resonate with this, then then really think about it in the context of
your own life and how you can exercise more of that everyday leadership.
I hope that you enjoy this video.
I really hope that it gave you some food for thought.
I feel like this is important and you know, in today's world, with all the issues going on around,
we need more of those everyday leaders without titles.

--- Why Authenticity is the Foundation of Leadership ---

Let's talk about the fundamental ingredient of good leadership and its authenticity.
You just can't be a good leader.
In fact, you cannot be a leader without authenticity.
The moment there is lack of authenticity, the moment people can sense it.
That's it.
You know, it's extremely hard, almost impossible to recover from it.
Really, this is so important.
And it can happen just like this.
You know, I think Warren Buffett said that you can build your reputation for ten, 20, 30 years and
you can lose it overnight.
And a similar thing happens with your authenticity.
Maybe you had a situation in the past.
I certainly had those situations when you had a leader, you had a manager, and at some point you felt
like they were not authentic.
Perhaps they always pretended that they knew everything, right?
They were this black belt in anything.
They know everything and everyone has to agree with them.
Perhaps you had a manager who made a mistake and they just wouldn't admit it.
Right?
Or maybe that person made a mistake that directly affected you in a negative way and they just couldn't
get themselves to apologize, to simply say, Hey, listen, my bad, I made a mistake.
I'm a human.
I'm sorry for this.
They never said that.
Now, what happens in your head?
Well, you stop trusting that person.
You can sense that they are not authentic, right?
If someone behaves as if they are golden all the time.
24 seven, it's pretty much impossible to believe in that person.
That person lacks authenticity, and it's so important that as leaders we are authentic.
Now, how do you cultivate authenticity?
Well, you have to own your mistakes.
You have to be transparent.
You just have to do it right.
So let me give you an example here.
Let's say that you have a leader who usually is right, but then at some point that person makes a mistake
and imagine that that leader owns up to that mistake.
Imagine that he or she comes up to you and says, Hey, listen, our team, I made a mistake.
I made a wrong call.
We should have done something else.
Here is what happened here.
Here is what my thinking process was.
This is why I made that decision.
But you know what?
I was wrong.
You are right.
And we have to recalibrate and go different direction when you experience something like this.
Suddenly, even though your leader made a mistake, you have so much more respect for that person because
you see that that person can own their mistakes.
You see that that person is transparent and authentic, Right?
Being authentic is about this ability to be vulnerable, right?
It's about being able to open up and just own who you are with all the good, with all the bad and with
all the ugly.
This is so important.
And guess what?
When you have a leader who owns up to their mistakes, when you have a leader who can say sorry, right,
that person makes a mistake, does something wrong, and it's big enough to come up to you and say,
Hey, listen, I apologize.
I shouldn't have treated you this way, or I raised my voice and I was wrong and I want to apologize
for that.
When that happens, suddenly the credibility of that leader just automatically grows and grows tremendously.
And guess what?
Now, when that leader in a different situation tells you, listen, I'm 100% confident we should go
this way or, hey, listen, team, I know there are different opinions here, but you've got to trust
me on this.
I've done this before.
I really believe we should go this direction.
Now, this has some credibility because you know that that leader, if he or she didn't know what they
were doing, they would admit it, right?
They wouldn't just blindly go one direction because they try to pretend that they know everything that
are black belts and everything.
And this game of life.
Right.
You trust them.
And the reason you trust them is because they were willing to admit when they were wrong.
So again, one of the most important qualities of a leader is authenticity.
Authenticity comes from you being able to own everything about you, not just the good things, but
also the bad and the ugly.
Owning up to your own mistakes.
When you do that, people will love you as a leader.

--- How Curiosity Mindset Will Make You More Diplomatic ---

I highly encourage you to embrace the curiosity mindset as a leader.
Don't make quick assumptions.
And the reason is that a lot of the times we make a mistake of making very quick assumptions.
So for instance, let's say that one of your subordinates is not performing very well over the last
few days.
Now it's very easy to take it the wrong way, to take it at face value and bash that person.
Right.
Say, hey, listen, John, what's happening?
Like you've been underperforming.
I can't believe you know what you are doing.
I'm going to fire you.
A lot of people overreact like this, right?
A lot of people take things at face value.
However, as a great leader, you want to embrace this mindset of curiosity.
You want to put yourself in the shoes of that person.
And before you say anything, before you overreact, you want to go deep within and ask yourself, okay,
what could I be missing?
What could be possibly happening in there?
You want to put yourself in the shoes of that person?
Is it possible that that person is just being lazy?
Sure, it is possible, But it's also possible that maybe that person lost their loved one recently
to some disease.
It is also possible that that person has gone through a terrible breakup.
Right.
Or some other mental health challenge.
So it's so easy for us oftentimes to make an assumption, right, to assume that everyone else is living
a perfect existence with no issues, no predicament.
It's easy for us to assume that everything should be always working like a Swiss watch, but the reality
is that we are all in a human business.
We are all human.
We all struggle with various things.
So rather than taking things at face value, we got to give people the benefit of a doubt.
We have to embrace this mindset of curiosity, and rather than overreacting and firing at that person,
it's important to take a little bit of time to go deeper and ask yourself, What could I be missing?
Right.
Let's get curious what could be possibly going on?
What are other options that I haven't considered?
And when you start thinking like this, you'll be way more likely to approach the situation diplomatically.
And instead of bashing that person verbally, you will find the power to actually approach that person
in a diplomatic manner and talk to them, and they will be able to sense that you are genuine.
And when you genuinely want to find out what is wrong, that's when people open up.
People find it very difficult to open up in front of someone who is trying to bash them, someone who
doesn't listen, right?
Someone who is not taking anything on board, someone who already made up their mind why that person
is in the wrong.
However, when that person that you are managing can see that you genuinely care, that you want to
find out what they are thinking.
You want to find out what is actually going on in their lives.
They are more likely to open up about whatever is happening.
And hey, guess what?
It is still possible that that person is just being lazy right now.
That person is making a big mistake.
It's still possible, but at least you gave them the benefit of a doubt and is one of the traits of
a great leader.
So please embrace curiosity.

--- Getting Your Hands Dirty for Stronger Leadership ---

Please don't be afraid to get your hands dirty as a leader.
Now, look, I'm a big believer in productivity, as you know, because I have an extra section just
about productivity.
So I do believe in creating leverage.
I do believe it.
And not doing too many things below your pay grade.
I believe in creating leverage where you can make two plus two equal 222, right?
You can make the most out of each unit of your time.
Having said that, as a leader, sometimes you just got to get your hands dirty, even though it may
not make logical sense, right?
You may not want to do certain things because you rationalize to yourself, Well, I used to do that
five years ago or ten years ago.
I don't have to do it anymore.
I'm the leader here.
I have way more important things to do.
But sometimes for the sake of your leadership, for the sake of bonding with the team and for the sake
of resetting your own ego.
And we all have that ego, it is important to get our hands dirty.
Okay, so here's a random example.
Let's say that in your office you have one specific person or two people who clean all the coffee cups
by the end of the day.
So sometimes it may be worse for you as the main leader in that company to do it yourself, to literally
clean all the coffee cups.
Right.
Or whatever it is.
And the reason is that, look, when you do that, you first of all, recalibrate your ego, right?
And sometimes it's very healthy for all of us.
But most importantly, you are showing to everyone else that you don't think that you are better than
them.
You show the people that you are not above that task, right?
You may be the leader, but you know what?
You are humble, you are humble, and you are willing to get your hands dirty for the sake of the team.
And the interesting thing is that when you do those types of activities, I could give you a ton of
examples here.
I know that that you know exactly what I'm talking about.
When you are willing to get your hands dirty a little bit from time to time, people can see it and
people will learn from it.
And remember, as I always say in my videos, people will gravitate to, however, the leader is acting
right.
People will naturally gravitate to who you are.
They will model you right, They will emulate you.
So if you happen to be, you know, for instance, a leader that thinks that he or she is above everything
else, some of your managers may start developing the same attitude.
Having said that, if you are that leader who is humble, who doesn't feel like he or she is above everything,
right, I'm above this.
I'm not going to get my hands dirty.
When you are willing to get your hands a little bit dirty.
Right?
Other people are more likely to do the same thing.
And this helps you to build an incredible culture within your team or within your organization.
And even example from my own life from those filming sessions.
So when I film with my Polish crew, right, whenever we go somewhere, you know, we walk up the mountain,
we try to find a really nice spot.
When they have a lot of equipment, I volunteer.
I say, Hey, guys, give it to me.
Like, let me let me carry some of this stuff.
And they say, No, no, don't worry about it.
I'm like, Come on, this is heavy.
Let me carry some of this stuff.
Now I can do this with Eduardo.
I tried a few times.
Eduardo, very assertive guy.
He said, Nah, Jimmy, don't worry about it, man.
I'm the filming orchestra, man.
I can carry everything.
So he carries all the stuff.
He doesn't let me touch it, right?
So it's a bit different now.
You can insist to a certain point, but then you just have to give up.
But with other crews, whenever I film, with other people, hey, I ask, I legitimately ask and I
mean it.
And when they say, Oh, are you sure?
I'm like, Yeah, of course I'm sure.
Yeah.
They give me a tripod, they give me this, they give me that and I carry it and I really don't mind,
right?
Or we go somewhere.
I buy coffee for myself.
I buy coffee for everyone, right?
If I buy water for myself, I bring water for everyone.
It's so important to do those types of things or, you know, cleaning up, right?
You may assume you're paying somebody, so they should clean everything up.
Now, help them out.
You don't have to help them out every single time right now.
Am I saying that you should stay late in your office every single night and clean the entire office
and basically do the job of the cleaning lady?
Of course not.
Right.
But I also don't think it would hurt you to sometimes from time to time, maybe help out a little bit.
Right.
There's a cleaning lady, let's say her name is Susan.
She's always cleaning super nice lady.
You know, sometimes when you finish work, you have a bit of time.
Yeah, Why not collect some cups, help her a little bit.
And I have to tell you, this will increase the morale.
It's incredible what's going to happen when you do that.
People in your organization and your team will respect you so much more.
They will perceive you as not just a confident leader, but a humble leader leader that is stepping
on real ground, not being somewhere out there thinking that he or she is the best.
So I hope that this is some good food for for I'm actually curious what you think about it.
Maybe you have some interesting situations in case studies from your own life that you would like to
share.
And I'm going to see you in the next video.

--- The Importance of Detachment: Why & How ---

Have you ever had a situation when you were leading a team and you had that predicament, that challenge
that seemed overwhelming, insurmountable, Right.
You're right in the middle of it.
And you felt all those emotions building up and you couldn't handle it.
And there are too many moving bits and pieces.
And at some point you just felt paralyzed, right?
You didn't know what to do.
So many different options.
Everyone is looking at you.
You are the leader.
You have to make some decisions.
Things are moving very fast and suddenly you feel paralyzed.
You don't know who to do.
Look, we've all had those situations not just in leadership positions, but just in everyday life,
right?
This is this is actually the definition of life, right?
We all face predicaments.
So the question is, what do you do in those situations when you get stuck, when you know you have
to make the right call?
But the question is, what is the right call?
What should I do?
What decision should I make?
Which path should I embrace?
And this is especially important when you are leading a team.
Now, it's one thing when it's just you and you're responsible just for yourself, but it's a completely
different thing when you are leading a team of people, right?
When you are responsible for them and you know that the decisions you make will have certain consequences.
The question is how do you handle those situations?
And one word that comes to mind is detaching yourself from the immediate situation.
Right.
And a lot of people call it differently, right?
So I remember Ebon pegging back in the day used to say that you have to get some altitude.
He used to say that you have to essentially zoom out out of your life.
Imagine you are getting on a helicopter, right?
You go up and now you can see everything from a different perspective, right?
Some people say, well, you have to get out of your own box and you have to see what's outside of that
box.
A couple of Navy SEALs, Jocko Willink and Lave Babbin, they say that you have to detach yourself from
this situation.
There are different ways to to speak about it.
But the point is what is important in those situations is not to get stuck right in the middle of the
situation, but it's important to get a fresh perspective, to get some fresh air to go out of that
situation so you can analyze everything objectively.
Now, when you're in the middle of a predicament, some type of challenging situation that creates a
lot of emotions and you triggers you, it is very hard to detach yourself.
It's very hard to think clearly.
It's very hard to be objective.
Right?
You are subjective because you are right in the middle of the situation and you know, on a different
scale.
Let me ask you, in your regular life, have you ever had a situation when one of your friends had a
relationship problem?
But then again, when you talk to your friend about the situation, you were objective.
It was so easy for you to say, Hey, just forget about that person.
It's easy to just move on.
But for that person, it wasn't so easy.
But then maybe later on down the line you had a similar predicament and another friend came up to you
and said, Hey, listen, don't worry, just move on.
That person is not for you.
And you couldn't move on, right?
And you knew that the other person did something wrong and the other person has flawed character, right?
But you just can't move on because you feel all those emotions, because you feel all the attachment.
You hear that song and it reminds you of all the great times you had.
And you keep rationalizing that maybe things will get better.
So again, when we are in the middle of that situation, it's so difficult to be objective and this
is why it is important to cultivate that detachment muscle.
It's so important to force ourselves to zoom out, to get out of that box, to gain a fresh perspective,
to see the situation for what it really is.
So when you are leading other people, when you face certain predicament, when something really tricky
is happening and you feel stuck and you feel paralyzed and you don't know how to make the right call,
right?
Or maybe you feel tempted to make certain decision to rush the decision, but you're not sure if you
are doing the right thing because you feel overwhelmed instead of just, you know, getting deeper and
deeper and deeper into that spiral.
It's actually better to paradoxically slow down and then detach, get that fresh perspective, reassess
the situation, and then make your call.
And it's counterintuitive because when we are overwhelmed, we have this temptation to go quick, right?
Quickly, make a decision, do something, bam, bam, bam, we want to rush through things.
But the reality is that and you know, this is one of those sayings in the world of martial arts.
You know, whenever I was doing Tai boxing or jujitsu, they often say that, listen, when you are
going slow, you are being smooth.
And when you are being smooth, you are being more accurate, you are being more precise.
And guess what?
Precise and accurate is fast, right?
So in martial arts, they often tell you, listen, when you practice that head kick, don't try to
go full force and full speed right from the beginning.
First of all, learn the basics, learn the proper technique, learn how to throw it from the hip,
learn all of that.
And.
Once you learn it slowly, once you get the precision, once you are accurate, bam!
Now you can really practice it with full force and full speed.
And it's kind of like this with leadership.
Sometimes you've got to slow down.
Sometimes you have to zoom out, get a fresh perspective, and then you get the clarity and you realize,
Oh, wow, I was stuck in this situation.
I can't believe I can't believe I was stuck.
The the decision I have to make seems so obvious right now, but this clarity will only come to you
when you are willing to zoom out to get a fresh perspective.

--- Taking Extreme Ownership: Why & How ---

In this video.
I'm going to talk to you about taking responsibility, about extreme ownership.
And I'm going to tell you about what I've learned from a couple of Navy SEALs.
But before I do so, I just want to give you a bit of a context, right.
Because I just realized that some of you may be wondering what is that thing behind you, Jimi?
So we are here in this beautiful place on the La Palma Island, actually more than 2000 meters above
the sea level.
We got really lucky with the weather.
This place is usually extremely windy.
It's not easy to film here.
It's a lucky day.
This is why we decided to drive all the way from the different side of the island, Go up the mountain
to film videos here, and you can see on the B-roll a bunch of telescopes.
So this place is one of the three most important telescope areas in the world.
So again, La Palma Island, we are next to a place called a Rock de los Muchachos.
Now the other place is in Hawaii and then the other one is in Chile.
So very special place.
And, you know, we are driving by.
I decided, you know what, let's make some videos because I figured you will find is interesting.
We made a bunch of B-roll, some drone shots so you feel like you are on this adventure with me, essentially.
But let's get into extreme ownership and taken responsibility.
So Jocko Willink and Leif Babin wrote an incredible book on leadership, and it's called Extreme Ownership,
and I highly recommend this book.
There are so many incredible principles.
In fact, I will tell you there are a lot of books on leadership, but this is my number one most favorite
book of all times about leadership.
The way they wrote it is very captivating.
There are great case studies in there.
And, you know, the premise of the book is that as a leader, you have to take extreme ownership.
And oftentimes we like to blame our team members.
We like to blame our subordinates, we like to blame our clients.
Something happens and it's so easy to say, hey, it's the fault of that client or is the fault of my
project manager or it's default of my boss, right?
The big boss.
But what they say is if you have this approach, well, you lose control because if you don't take extreme
ownership, if you don't take the responsibility, you don't really have any control.
You give away control.
You say, Hey, this is not my fault.
It's somebody else's fault, which actually sub communicates to you that you can't do much about it.
On the flip side, when you take extreme ownership of everything, right?
Literally, if it starts raining now, I should take extreme ownership of the fact that it's raining.
Someone could say, Jim is not your fault.
You couldn't have predicted it.
The weather forecast said it's going to be fine, but then I lose control, right?
And I push away responsibility instead, I should think, well, it is my responsibility.
Maybe I should have checked it better, right?
Maybe I should have had a plan B, And this is an important principle because when you take responsibility,
what's going to happen is your employees, people that you lead are more likely to take extreme ownership
themselves.
As I say, in this course, multiple times, your people will feel whatever you feel and they will emulate
you right When you are a leader, people will emulate you to some extent.
If you behave in a certain way, your people are more likely to behave like this.
If you behave with integrity, if you take extreme ownership, right?
If you have this positive mindset, people who work for you with you are more likely to have that positive
mindset, to take that responsibility, to be confident and to go after it.
On the other side.
If you are one of those negative people and you show up in the office and you complain a lot and you
always have a grumpy face and you don't give the credit where credit is due and you don't take responsibility
for your actions and you never apologize.
You can expect the same behaviors from your people.
So again, when you take responsibility for your actions to an extreme, you're more likely to create
a situation where people that work with you will take responsibility for their actions and an extreme
ownership.
Jocko Willink shares a really powerful story, really dramatic one from a war zone where, unfortunately
they had this blue on blue situation, so they had some team members there, other team members in the
building, and they thought that that was the enemy.
So there was a shootout in between the team members.
Right.
And some people died, unfortunately.
So in that situation, he says that ultimately, even though he wasn't directly involved in that situation,
he was the commander, he was in charge of that battlefield.
Therefore, it was his responsibility.
And by the way, now obviously, I'm sharing this in a nutshell.
I highly encourage you to either read the book or watch a speech by Jocko Willink on YouTube.
You can find it there.
Where he shares the full story is really captivating.
And, you know, whatever your views are or on military and the war, that's secondary.
We are talking about principles here and and this is a very powerful principle.
So when he was talking to the.
Or to the board asked, Hey, so whose fault was it?
And would have been very easy for him to say, you know, it was fault of this one guy, this one soldier
made the wrong call, or that other soldier, you know, picked the wrong location, messed up the coordinates.
Right.
But instead, he said it was my fault.
Essentially, he said it was my fault.
I was the senior leader on the battlefield.
Therefore, everything that happened on that battlefield was my responsibility.
So he took ownership.
And because he took ownership, everyone else from the team started saying, No, no, no, sir, it
wasn't your fault.
It was my fault.
No, no, it was my fault.
So we see what happened there.
You know, if he started blaming other people, other people would be likely to blame other people,
Right.
Again, we will emulate whatever the leader does, but as a leader, he took ownership.
He said, listen, I take the responsibility.
And that propelled everyone else to also take responsibility.
So this is a very powerful principle.
Now, you may be wondering, okay, Jimi, it makes sense, but it's probably easier said than done.
And I have to say definitely right in my own life, I have all types of situations where I want to take
extreme ownership, but it's not easy.
Our ego is at play, right?
For instance, one of my employees makes a really terrible mistake, costs me a lot of money.
You know, it's easy to say it is your fault.
You messed up.
Right?
But here's the thing.
Even if it's that person's fault, I still want to take responsibility.
And I need to make something clear.
It doesn't mean that I'm not going to punish that terrible mistake in any way.
Right?
Sometimes people make mistakes or they do something wrong, and it has to be punished.
If you have an employee, for instance, and that person is stealing money from the company, right.
Or that person is abusing someone verbally or physically or whatever it is.
Right.
I mean, you can't just say I take ownership for that, keep working and we're going to give you a pay
rise.
No, it's not about that.
Right.
What Jocko means and what labor means by extreme ownership is that even though you may have to ponder
certain behaviors, sometimes you still want to take a degree of responsibility.
You don't just want to say, my employee messed up, that's his fault, or that's her fault and that's
it.
No, you want to acknowledge, well, it is the fault of that person in some way, Right?
Okay.
You need to reconcile that, need to figure out what happened in there.
But at the same time, you still want to take responsibility.
It is your employee.
It is person who works in your team.
Maybe you could have done something better.
Maybe you could have instructed them better.
Maybe you could have made your principles a bit more clear.
Right?
So they are aware of the consequences of their actions.
Right.
And the reason we want to look at this this way is because now suddenly again, we regain control rather
than just brushing off responsibility on other people, we literally regain control and we start pondering,
Ha, yeah, maybe there's literally something else I could have done about this situation.
And this is how we grow as leaders, right?
So we have to put that ego aside and it's really not easy, but got to put the ego aside.
And as a result, we open our mind to new possibilities.
We realize, you know what?
Yes, that person maybe was at fault.
I'm taking the responsibility now and just realize there is something I could have done better.
So we keep learning and we keep getting better.
So I really hope that you enjoy this video.
I'm aware that this principle can be a little bit controversial.
I am curious what you think about it.
I'm curious if you have examples when you embraced extreme ownership or perhaps if you are willing to
share it.
It's even more interesting if you had situations when you didn't take responsibility and now looking
back you are thinking, Ha, maybe I should have taken that responsibility.
By the way, one of the videos in this course I am talking about creating a leadership log, right?
Writing down those situations when you were successful as a leader, but also writing down situations
when you messed up as a leader.
And maybe this is a good time to also to combine both of those lectures and to ask yourself a question,
Hey, so when we're the situations when I should have taken extreme ownership, but I did it, I pushed
that responsibility away, right.
Those things down and ask yourself, okay, if I had a situation like this again in the future, what
would I do?

--- Create Your Leadership Manifesto ---

Let me ask you, do you have a set of rules that you follow as a leader?
Do you have some type of manifesto?
Have you defined your value and your belief system?
And if the answer is no, I highly encourage you to do it.
It's important to create some type of map guiding your behavior as a leader, especially if you want
to impart some of those qualities onto your team.
Right.
So first of all, I do believe that it's important to create some type of set of rules that you follow,
right?
Non negotiable, certain things that you will never compromise on in terms of what you do with your
life, but also your team members.
It is important to dig deep and ask yourself, okay, what are my values?
What are my beliefs?
Right.
What is my vision?
Get really deep into it.
What are the set of rules?
What are my boundaries?
For instance, What are the behaviors that I will never accept from myself and from other people?
And what are the types of behaviors that I want to do more of as a leader and that I want to impart
on my team?
And really going deep into this topic is powerful because when you define those things and it's going
to take some time, right?
It takes digging deep.
You will create a manifesto, a set of rules that will serve as a northern star of your behavior as
a leader.
And this is very helpful.
You see a lot of us, you know, we lead other people.
Of course, we always lead ourselves, first of all, but we lead other people and we never really consider
those things.
We just kind of go with the flow and hope for the best.
But it is important to actually write down a set of rules, write down those boundaries, explore those
the value and your belief system.
Write all of those things down and keep re editing those things until you get to the point where you
read all of it and you're like, Wow, I'm fully aligned with this.
This is awesome.
This describes exactly who I want to be as a leader.
This describes exactly what I want to do as a leader and what I wouldn't allow myself to do as a leader.
Right?
This describes exactly the type of culture I want to have within my team.
So before watching the next video, I highly encourage you to ponder those things.
Write them Down is going to be a very useful exercise for you.
Self awareness is powerful and I feel like oftentimes we want to go very fast, but in order to go faster,
sometimes we actually have to slow down.
We have to pause and we have to analyze what is happening right now.
Where are we?
What is the present moment?
Right.
Becoming self aware and answering those difficult questions will help you to craft your path as a great
leader.

--- Cultivate Team Resilience in Times of Change and Crisis: Section Introduction ---

Welcome to the section about developing resilience in yourself and in your team, because when you really
think about it as a leader, you will face a lot of predicaments, a lot of challenges.
And when you really think about a change is inevitable and this applies to you as a leader, but also
your team, change is the only constant.
Now people often joke, Hey, you know, the only certainties in life are death and taxes.
Well, I like to hope that taxes will keep getting smaller, right?
Or at least when we pay those taxes, you know, the politicians will do something productive with them.
And death.
Well, you can biohacking yourself to a longer life.
So, yes, sure, we're all going to die and we all have to pay taxes.
But the only certainty, in my opinion, is change, right?
Because there's this old saying, people say, hey, you shouldn't get into the same river twice.
But when you really think about it and Buddhists talk about it quite a bit, that it's not even possible,
you cannot get into the same river twice because even if you enter that river and you go back in there
one hour later, it is a different river, right?
The water keeps flowing.
That water is already different.
It's not the same.
But also you changed as a person.
Literally billions of your cells died and billions of your cells were born.
And when you dig into it, when you dig into the science of it, it's quite fascinating.
So nothing is really constant.
We keep changing, our mindset, keeps changing.
Every single thing that happens to every experience impacts how you view reality.
So the only constant thing is change.
So the question is how do we deal with change?
How do we deal with something that's far from positive with those moments of crisis and challenge and
we all experience those.
And the question is how will you interpret the situation?
What will you make of it?
So in this section, I'm going to show you a couple of different videos with various mindset shifts
that will help you to approach various situations of change in crisis with a little bit more power and
a bit more positive energy.
And this will be very useful as you are managing your team because again, as I always say, whatever
you feel as a leader will impact how other people feel within your team, right?
If you cultivate the mindset of resilience, if you stay positive in spite of the challenges, if you
learn how to reframe the seemingly negative into positive, it is more likely that your team will do
the same.
And then, collectively, even in spite of incredible difficulties, you will be able to persevere and
to keep going after it.
So I hope that you will enjoy this section.
And let's get started.

--- Why & How To Embrace Stoic Approach ---

Okay, So let's start with something a bit counterintuitive.
Let's start with this old Hellenistic philosophy called Stoicism.
Now, a lot of you heard about stoicism, but I want to delve into it in the context of using it as
a practical tool to handle misfortune and to become more resilient.
So Starbucks, like Marcus Aurelius and Seneca, Epictetus, Zeno, they're a bunch of bunch of different
stoics out there that got really famous.
Unfortunately, post mortem, they were always saying that things are not just good or bad.
Inherently they simply are.
So it's never just about the situation itself.
It is about your interpretation of the situation.
Essentially, your perception creates reality, by the way.
One person to follow, if you are interested in stoicism is Ryan Holladay.
He wrote, I believe, ten books now, and most of them have something to do with Stoicism.
For instance, one of his early books, The Obstacle is the Way a great read.
It's fairly short, but it will make you think so, you know, kudos and shout out to Ryan Holiday.
Now I have to say that I do believe in Stoicism.
I try to live my life through this stoic lens.
I believe I am a stoic to a very high extent.
I've been trying to cultivate that muscle of resilience.
So whenever something seemingly negative happens, I find a way to reframe it into something that could
be positive because it's so powerful, right?
Essentially, your perception will create your reality, so why make your perception negative?
Now, I do understand that there are situations in life, whether it's your personal life or your business,
when terrible things happen, you lose loved ones, right?
Or you get really sick or your business goes down or you lose that major client.
There are those things that happened that a very hard to reframe.
It's very, very challenging to look at that situation and say to yourself, Well, things are not good
or bad or healthy.
They simply are.
It's about my interpretation of the situation.
You are thinking, well, how can I possibly interpret, you know, five clients leaving me or how can
I possibly interpret, you know, someone dying?
There's nothing positive that can come out of it.
And here's the thing.
Even if that's the case, you can still choose your perception of the situation and just choosing to
interpret the situation as something that, yes, it may be negative now, but there may be some hidden
blessing in disguise.
It gives you a degree of control rather than feeling hopeless and feeling like you're just being punched
by life, you realize, well, I have some degree of control.
For instance, you are controlling your mindset, how you approach the situation.
And the next video, I'm going to give you some examples of people who managed to do it and some of
the most extreme situations.
But for now, let's talk a little bit about this concept of reframing seemingly negative into positive.
We all have situations when, for instance, you miss your flight, you couldn't make it to that conference
and in the moment it felt terrible, right?
You had to be there.
You wanted to meet those people and you missed that flight.
But then maybe later down the line, because of that situation, the trajectory of your life changed.
So you end up bumping into someone who became a huge client of yours.
Or maybe you met someone who became your life partner, Right?
The variety of different things that could have happened.
Or for instance, you lost your job.
And at the moment it feels so painful.
But as a result of it, you ended up building a business.
Finally, all the bridges were gone, right?
All the boats were burnt.
So you decided, You know what?
I'm just going to go out there and I'm going to try to build a business.
And this is why you are an entrepreneur right now.
Maybe you went through a heartbreak, terrible breakup, right?
Or divorce and in the moment, extremely painful.
Maybe kids involved, Right.
Even more painful.
Terrible.
But then later down the line, as you look back, you realize, wow, I learned so much about myself
in that situation and I'm using those lessons to live a better life.
Right.
And maybe later on, you met someone who was really your your soul.
So, again, we all had those situations in our lives.
And I feel like it is important to look at those situations because they serve as a reminder that,
again, as Starbucks always say, things are not just inherently good or bad, they simply are.
It's about your interpretation of the situation, the meaning attached to the situation, not the situation
itself.
It's a very powerful mindset, especially in business.
Now.
This mindset is especially powerful when you are a leader, when you are responsible for other people
because they will take cues from you if you are facing some type of predicament.
Well, if you cannot handle it properly, if you are negative and you get extremely emotional and you
get angry and you look at everything as if it's the end of the world, people will sense that right
When leadership is feeling insecure, when leadership is feeling like it's the end of the world, everyone's.
Art's feeling the same.
The overall energy in the entire room starts changing.
And guess what?
You are less likely to actually make something out of this situation to find new opportunities because
you are in this very low state.
On the flip side, if as a leader, you embrace the stoic approach and you try to not even make your
glass half full, but you realize that your glass is refillable, you can literally refill your glass.
A lot of people say, Hey, my glass is half full, not half empty.
Well, you can refill it.
That's a completely different mindset.
There is plenty of opportunities.
There is abundance, right?
Even if your glass seems empty, just take something and refill it.
When you have that mindset, your team members look at you.
They're like, Wow, The big boss is not really fazed by this situation that much, right?
The big boss has a smile on their face.
Awesome.
I guess it's not that bad.
Let's go after it.
Right.
So again, however you respond to this situation will impact how your team responds to that same predicament
or challenge.
So it is important that you cultivate this mindset of being more like a stoic reframing, similarly
negative into positive.
You know, when something bad happens, a lot of people say, Hey, don't worry about it.
One day you will laugh about it, one day you will laugh about it.
Well, my question is, why wait till one day?
Why not laugh about it now?
Now, listen, I understand it's easier said than done if, for instance, right now I walk here and
I break my leg.
Right.
We usually, as you notice, we film in crazy places.
We we film on mountains and by waterfalls.
Sometimes on cliffs.
Yeah.
Imagine I break my leg.
It's not like as I'm falling down on the dirt, I'm going to start laughing.
Panicky.
Yes.
I'm so glad I broke my leg.
I'm sure something great is going to come out of it.
That will be a little bit crazy, right?
It's not about that.
It's about.
Yes.
Feeling the human emotions, right?
Yes.
If I break my leg, it's normal.
I feel angry.
I feel discouraged, I feel pain.
I'm just a human.
I'm not a robot.
But there is a difference between feeling those emotions in the moment and ruminating on that situation
for months or years.
And this is what a lot of us do when something really negative happens.
We keep focusing on that negativity and whatever we focus on, well, it's going to expand, right?
And that's a problem when we just keep focusing on it and it keeps expanding.
So it is important.
Yes, be a human, but there is a point where you have to say to yourself, okay, it already happened.
The only thing I can do about it is to control the next outcome.
Right leg is already broken or we already lost the client, or I already lost that job, or I didn't
get promoted or we lost a couple of team members or the economy is going down or whatever it is, it's
already happening.
So now we could focus on all of those negative things or we can decide, you know what?
Okay, it already happened.
Let me focus on the future and let me be positive and let me try to figure out some solutions.
And when you have that mindset, wow, suddenly the world opens up.

--- The Aushwitz Volunteer: Extreme 2WW Examples ---

Okay.
So let me give you some extreme examples from the Second World War, because a lot of people, when
I tell them about this concept of being more like a stoic and reframing, they say, Well, but what
if something really terrible happens to me, like something that objectively is ridiculously negative?
And well, there are examples out there in the history.
So one of them is Viktor Frankl.
Not sure if you heard about him.
If you haven't get his book, literally just get his book.
It's called The Man's Search for Meaning.
It's about his experience in a concentration camp.
He was there, I believe, for I think for five or six years, and he barely survived.
And the reason he survived that concentration camp was because he found a meaning in that situation.
He said very eloquently that people who lost their lives were people who lost hope.
The moment you lose hope, the moment you lose meaning you, you die, right?
There is there's no reason to live.
But he found hope.
And the hope came from the meaning he attached to the situation.
You may be thinking, okay, what type of meaning can he attach to the terrible predicament of being
in a concentration camp, seeing people being tortured and dying on a daily basis.
But his meaning was that he realized, you know what, I'm here for a reason, and the reason I'm here
and the reason I'm going to survive is because I have to get out of here and I have to share those stories
with the world.
So this indescribable hardship, this evil, will never happen again.
I have to be that messenger.
I have to share those stories with the world.
And that was his meaning.
And suddenly that gave him the strength.
So he wrote a great book about it, you know, really highly recommend it.
But there's another person called Witold Pilecki.
He's a bit less known, but he wrote a book called The Auschwitz Survivor.
So Vital Pilecki, he actually went to Auschwitz to the concentration camp, not because he was forced
to do it, but because he wanted to do it.
He was part of a special Forces unit.
And at some point, you know, he heard all the stories about Auschwitz and he wanted to see for himself
if it's really that bad.
And what you wanted to do is you wanted to go in there.
He wanted to build the resistance, right?
I mean, it's just crazy to even think about it, right?
Imagine volunteering to go to a place that no one wants to be at.
It's just crazy.
So he wanted to build the resistance unit.
She wanted them to run away from there and keep fighting in the war.
And that's exactly what he did.
So he documents it in a book.
By the way, the audio version is tremendous, but it's crazy, right?
Most people well, everyone everyone would say, no, I never want to go to Auschwitz.
That's where everyone dies.
That's the place where they you know, they have crematoriums.
No.
Like I want to stay as far as possible from that place.
But his mindset was different, right?
He he had a different meaning.
He decided, I want to go there because I have a bigger vision.
I want to go there because I want to help those people and I want to share those stories with the world.
Crazy when you think about it.
But again, while he was there, you know, he writes about it very eloquently.
You know, he says, you know, he was focused on his mission.
He he wasn't dwelling on how difficult it is now.
He was focused on the mission at hand, build the resistance unit, and then have to run away from there
and share the message with the world.
And I really feel like case studies like this are really important because they show you that it is
possible, it is humanly possible to control your mindset, even in those extreme situations where most
people lose hope, it is possible your brain is strong enough to find a meaning even in those situations.
And you know, there are plenty of examples.
These are just two gentlemen and two different books, but there are plenty of examples.
You know, I've been reading a lot about the Second World War.
One of the reasons is that my grandpa was fighting in the Second World War in Poland, also in Monte
Cassino.
And unfortunately, after the war he had a stroke and he had a heart attack.
So half of his body was paralyzed.
He couldn't speak, so we couldn't hear those stories.
But what I remember about my grandpa was that he was always a very cheerful person.
He died sadly, when I was 16 years old.
But I remember whenever we visited my grandma and my my grandpa, he was always smiling, right?
He couldn't speak.
He could barely move, but he was always cheerful.
He was trying to crack non-verbal jokes and always smiling, always, you know, massive heart.
Right.
And I kept thinking to myself, wow, like this guy, let's you went through war, You know, he was
a teenager, you know, moving ammunition underneath the bridge every day, knowing that he could die,
that his family could die.
Yet he's so cheerful.
Why?
Because he chose his interpretation of that situation.
He decided, you know what?
I already experience all the atrocities of war.
Why stay negative?
Why?
I mean, I have this blank page, right?
The war is over.
Yes.
I'm messed up physically.
But let me make the most of the years I have left, and I always respected that tremendously.
I was always inspired by it.
So this is the reason I'm sharing those stories.
I feel like we can learn so much about them, especially as leaders who are leading other people.
And in this situation of crisis, those stories put things in perspective, right?
When you read and or listen to those stories and you have a bad day or you have a bad week, you lose
a client or the economy is really going down.
And over time you realize, wow, we're going to have a lot of challenges.
Those stories put things in perspective.
You realize, yes, the situation may be bad, but this is not about life and death.
Right?
This is not about that.
This is something completely different.
And this gives you a lot of power to persevere.
So I hope that you found this video inspiring.
And I'm going to see you the next one.

--- How To Make Your Team More Resilient ---

So after all of those videos about resilience, you may be wondering.
Shoji Me, It makes sense, but how do I make my team more resilient?
Because I get it.
Yes, it helps me.
How do I impact my team in a positive manner?
And there are a couple of different things.
So first of all, I mentioned this already in this course, but whatever you feel your team is going
to feel right.
You have a massive impact on your team, whether you realize it or not.
So when you cultivate the mindset of resilience, when you cultivate a positive mindset, when you choose
to reframe seemingly negative and to positive, your team is going to feel it.
Your team members are more likely to feel just the way you feel.
So just by changing yourself that that's the best form of leadership.
If you change yourself and you control your own internal dialogue and your own perception of reality,
you will also affect people around you in a positive way.
Another thing is that you want to talk to your people about those topics, right?
These are some of the best topics to discuss.
Talk to them about resilience.
Ask them proactively, Ask them, Hey, what does resilience mean to you?
Hey, tell me, what was the situation in your life when you had to be resilient, Right?
So bring those things out of them.
For instance, what I like to do is when I speak on different stages, when I do presentations for the
corporate audiences, I sometimes like to ask people, Hey, I want you to take a piece of paper and
I want you to think about something that seemed impossible, that became your possibility, something
that literally seemed impossible.
Maybe getting the job you have right now, getting this position or perhaps buying that house right,
or learning a specific skill, whatever it was, think about something that seemed impossible.
And now you kind of take it for granted because it's here and it's your reality.
And, you know, people take a few minutes and they write some things down and it's just incredible
what happens.
You know, oftentimes I tell people, hey, anybody would like to share on the mic, please share with
everyone.
And yes, sometimes people share.
And some of those stories are really inspiring.
You realize, wow, like a lot of those people overcame the odds.
Wow.
But then I asked them, when was the last time you thought about it?
What was the last time you acknowledge the fact that you literally took something impossible and you
made it possible?
And almost always Dancer is Wow, I haven't really thought about it like forever.
Like, I never really acknowledged it.
It kind of happened and I kept moving on.
And it is so important to acknowledge those things because they are the living proof that you already
exercised resilience in your life.
I have to say, even when I'm making this video right now, I'm getting flashbacks, right?
Normally I don't think about it, but I'm getting flashbacks.
I'm thinking, Wow, I run away from a stage over ten years ago.
Nowadays, I speak on massive stages for huge corporations.
Interesting.
That was impossible.
Now it's just a part of my life.
In the past, I struggled financially.
I grew up in post-communist Poland, right?
We barely had any money.
I mean, I spent the last ten years literally exploring the entire world.
Almost 100 different countries Living life on my terms used to seem impossible right?
I do this in English.
I didn't speak English when I was 16 years old.
My English was broken.
I had a very thick Eastern European accent.
So this is something that I kind of take for granted.
Now, the other day we are doing a documentary with this animal shelter.
You know, this lady, she's doing an incredible job here, helping animals.
You know, the volcano on this island blew up and a lot of the animals, they got stuck in the lava
field and they had to be rescued.
And now they have breathing difficulties because of all of the volcanic volcanic gases.
So I wanted to help them.
So I did a documentary.
Well, we still editing, but I did a documentary with that lady.
And I asked her, Hey, do you mind speaking English?
And she said, Oh, better don't bet on la no para la inglés.
Muy bien.
I'm like, Och, let's speak Spanish.
Listen, I learned Spanish on the streets.
If someone told me many years ago, Hey, Jimmy, one day you will have a situation where you want to
do something and that lady will not speak English.
And you will have to do it in Spanish.
Like let you film 2 hours in Spanish.
I would have said this is not possible.
Well, it is possible until this video.
I haven't really acknowledged it.
Right.
So again, I could give you more and more examples.
The point is, I want you to think about examples from your own life, and I want you to bring those
examples from your team members because that is going to empower them, because it's going to show them
that, yes, we may be dealing with a lot of challenges individually as a team as well.
But you know what?
You already managed to overcome a lot of the challenges in your life.
So clearly you are capable of doing it again.
And then finally, what you want to do is you want to ask the right questions.
So a lot of the leaders, well, unfortunately, when they face certain predicament, they just focus
on the problem.
We have this problem, we have this challenge.
Och, wow, why did that happen?
You know, and they just keep talking and talking about the problem.
Now it is important to acknowledge the problem, to talk it through, to really understand how you got
into this situation.
But I feel like it is also crucial at some point to snap out of it.
And to start focusing on solutions rather than just asking, hey, you know, why did this happen?
You know, why do we have this problem?
Sure, you have to do that.
But at some point you want to reframe it and you want to ask people, hey, okay, how can we handle
this problem?
How can we turn it into an opportunity?
Right.
You want to ask them those types of questions?
You want to you want to tell people, listen, we had issues in the past.
We had challenges.
We managed to overcome them.
In fact, we managed to turn some of those challenges and predicaments into some of the biggest opportunities.
There is an opportunity in every challenge team, let's get our heads together.
Let's figure out how can we find opportunities in this predicament?
John Any ideas?
Susie, What do you think?
Like, how can we find an opportunity here?
And your language is important here because the quality of questions you ask yourself and the quality
of questions you ask your team will determine the quality of the answers, right?
It's as simple as that.
You can ask any question and your brain will come up with an answer.
For instance, if right now I ask myself, why don't I feel completely comfortable?
My brain is coming up with a few answers.
I have a bit of a back pain because we've been standing a lot.
Och, it's pretty hot, right?
That's another thing.
Mosquitoes biting my legs.
I can think about a lot of different things, but I'm not even allowing that thought to come into my
mind.
Well, unless I'm making an example for a video.
Right.
But I rather ask myself, Hey, why do I feel amazing?
Why am I grateful to be here?
And I'm thinking, Wow, I love this place.
La Palma Island.
It's amazing working with Eduardo.
It's always a pleasure.
We always have a great time.
The views are awesome.
I know I'm helping my audience.
I'm genuinely excited, right?
I haven't eaten anything, right?
Because I fire.
So I'm excited.
I'm going to eat after this.
A nice, healthy meal.
So, so, so many things I can get excited about.
But again, the question I asked myself will determine the answer I get.
If I ask myself a negative question.
A negative answer is likely to come.
If I ask myself an empowering question, empowering answers will come.
So in the moments of crisis, you have to ask yourself and your team those empowering questions.

--- Empowering Your Team: Section Introduction ---

Welcome to this section about empowering people.
Now, when you really think about it, a big part of leadership is you empowering your team.
A lot of people think that leadership is about just managing people, telling people what to do.
The reality is that being a true leader is about making people want to do something, and not just that.
It's about motivating people, inspiring them, buying into your vision, in fact, making them feel
like it's your co-created vision.
So it's not like, you know, you are the boss and that person has to do whatever it is that you are
telling them to do.
But that person feels like, You know what?
I'm a part of this vision.
I'm co-creating this vision, and my leader is empowering me, inspiring me, and pulling the best out
of me.
This is what leadership is all about.
So in this section, I will give you certain mindset shifts and strategies so you can empower your team.

--- Why & How To Cultivate Positive Mindset for Yourself and Your Team ---

If you want to empower your people, if you want to inspire them, you have to cultivate a positive
mindset.
It's so important because the reality is that whatever you feel, your people will feel, Energy is
contagious.
Emotions are contagious.
Have you ever had a situation when you felt really good and then suddenly you were in the presence of
someone who was complaining all the time and you know, their glass was always half empty and they kept
focusing on the negatives.
And within 10 minutes, 15 minutes you realize, wow, I start feeling negative myself.
I was so happy.
I was in a great mood.
And now I realize my body language is different.
I'm looking down, I'm not smiling anymore and I'm noticing the negative.
Well, it's because as we go through life, we get whatever we focus on, right?
Whatever you focus on is going to expand and people you surround yourself with will impact that focus.
So when you are a leader, right, whether it's a formal leadership position or perhaps you are an everyday
leader, you don't have a title, but you are leading people in your environment, your emotions, whatever
you feel are contagious.
So if you cultivate positive mindset, if you have that mindset of resilience, when you decide that
your glass will not only be half full, but it will be refillable, right?
You can refill that glass.
It's certainly not half empty when you have that approach to life.
It's contagious.
People can sense it and people in your environment are more likely to feel the same.
This is so important.
So if you want to empower your people, first of all, you have to empower yourself.
You have to work on your own positive mindset.
You have to work on you, focusing on the right things, not focusing on the negatives.
So when you face a predicament, when there is some type of challenge in your life, rather than having
this mentality of my glass half empty, now decide that your glasses refillable, right?
It's not even half full.
It's refillable you can keep refilling it.
You live in abundance.
So rather than just focusing on this predicament, saying to yourself, I can't believe this is happening,
this is tragic, we will never get out of it.
If you focus on that, that's going to become your reality.
But instead, what you can do is you can choose your interpretation of this situation.
I'm going to talk more about it in this section about developing resilience for yourself and for your
team.
But when you cultivate that mindset again, you're more likely to empower your team because people are
empowered by those who are empowered themselves.
And guess what?
The easiest way to empower yourself is to work on cultivating that positive mindset and to learn how
to reframe seemingly negative into positive.

--- How To Help People Uncover Their True Potential ---

Let me ask you something.
Have you ever had a situation when you were doubting yourself, when your entire reality seemed grim,
when it was very difficult for you to recognize your true potential?
Right.
Maybe you looked at yourself in the mirror, you didn't like what you saw, and then someone else,
perhaps a mentor, maybe a family member, perhaps your best friend or a coach or whoever it was came
up to you and said to you, Listen, you are underestimating yourself.
You have to recognize your true potential.
You are capable of so much more than you are doing right now.
You can do it.
You just got to believe in yourself.
And that one moment gave you that motivation and helped you to summon the courage to go out there and
to actually unleash that true potential.
And if you've ever experienced a situation like this, you know very well that sometimes we need a little
bit of a push, right?
When you go to the gym, when you are doing a bench press, if you really want to grow, sometimes you
need someone to spot you.
You need someone to tell you, hey, you can do it.
Two more.
Come on, you can't do it right.
You need someone to help you with that weight.
So when you are a leader, it is important that you really empower your people by showing them their
true potential.
Oftentimes we forget about it.
Oftentimes we focus so much on managing people and telling them what to do that we forget that they
may be facing a lot of self doubts.
See, life is tough.
I mean, listen, life.
Life is tough.
Life can knock you down.
I've been slapped by life a bunch of times in my life.
I'm sure you can resonate with this as well.
So we all have challenges, right?
We all have challenges.
And, you know, sometimes when we work with people, we we don't see that that human side of them,
Right?
We work with different people and and we perceive them as John from the operations or Missy from the
sales department or Marissa, the project manager.
And we perceive them as those business machines.
But in reality, they are just human beings and they go through their own challenges, They have their
own predicaments.
So sometimes perhaps your team members struggles with a relationship issue or a breakup or a divorce
or perhaps some type of health issue or maybe mental health issue.
Right.
It could be anything.
But we all go through certain challenges and, you know, it's important to recognize it.
And this is why it's so crucial to constantly and consistently empower our team members.
It's so important to show them their true potential to actually have that conversation with them, to
remind them that, you know, they are better than they sometimes think they are.
In a sense, you want to be not all the time, but you want to be a bit of a coach, a mentor for your
team.
So you may be thinking, Jimmy, it makes sense, but how can I possibly do it again?
Should I do a motivational speech every morning?
Not necessarily.
Right.
If you want, you can do that.
There are leaders out there who do those meet ups every morning for just 510 minutes to fire people
up.
I think that's a brilliant idea.
You don't have to do it necessarily, but what you want to do, what you may want to do, I just propose
this, right?
Everyone is different.
Again, as I mentioned in the first video with the best practices, leadership is a tricky topic.
It's not a science like math or physics.
There's not really right or wrong.
There are different shades, so it's up to you.
But one thing you could do, for instance, is to be more sensitive and more empathetic in terms of
recognizing some of the limiting beliefs that your team members may have.
So, for instance, if you get curious and I talk about Curiosity in another video, go a bit deeper
into it.
But when you get curious and you realize that one of your team members is insecure about something,
well, you can help them to build that confidence about that.
One thing.
If you've got someone who, for instance, is about to do an important meeting and that person is self
conscious about their tone of voice or about their appearance or whatever it is, right?
You can take them, you can take them aside, you can look them deeply into their eyes and say, Hey,
John, I just want to let you know that you've got it.
I believe in you.
You've got it.
You've done this before.
I believe in you.
You are talented.
You are really great at what you do.
You have a lot of value to offer and those people are going to love you.
So just go out there.
Just be yourself.
You're going to nail it.
I believe in you.
Saying something like this can mean a world to them.
And oftentimes, you know, we underestimate ourselves as leaders and we think, why would anybody want
to listen to this?
Right.
Why would anyone take this seriously?
But you have to remember that as a leader, you know, whatever you say, it carries a lot of importance
to those people.
And it's interesting how it works.
So let me give you an example right from my own life.
If somebody doesn't know who I am, they've got no idea who I am, let's say.
And I had those situations.
I'm talking to Taxi Driver, and the taxi driver tells me, you know, I don't feel good, I'm unhealthy.
And, you know, I wake up too late and this and that and the.
Tell me about their problems.
I could give that person some advice, but it's not very likely that that taxi driver will really take
it 100% seriously.
He may try to make a little change in his or her life, but they probably won't take it that seriously
because they don't have the buy in.
My credibility in their eyes is not very high.
They just met me.
They don't know who I am.
There's no relationship, right?
So imagine a situation.
I speak on a massive stage to 3000 people in the audience.
I get off the stage and then somebody comes up to me and they say, Hey, listen, I've been following
you for the last five years.
You know, I love your content.
Can I ask you a question?
It's awesome to meet you, right?
And I can see that you're really pumped up.
You know, they really wanted to meet me because they know me.
They've been watching my content, and then they ask me a question.
They say, Listen to me, I have this problem.
I'm not very healthy.
And I find it difficult to start eating healthy and to start exercising.
And I struggle with my confidence, but I can't get myself to get out of my comfort zone even right
now, as I'm talking to you, You know, I'm shaken a little bit, right?
I don't feel comfortable to share this with me.
And guess what happens, right?
I grab them by the arm, I look them deeply into their eyes, and I say, Hey, you've got it like you've
got it.
You've got to recognize that you are better than you think you are.
Just the fact that you walked up to me shows courage.
And I can sense, looking at you that you've got so much potential in you, right?
I give them a bit of pep talk and then I address their underlying issues and given them proper strategies.
But you know what happens?
They have so much buy in that now they're literally listening to every single word that I'm saying.
I can guarantee you that afterwards they will go out there and they will take action.
How do I know?
Because this happens so many times.
This happened to me and happened to many of my friends who are also speakers.
They are authors.
They are out there.
Right.
Creating content.
And it's because of that buy in.
It's because of the perceived credibility.
Right.
And you know very well that when you want to give advice to a family member, for example, they probably
won't take you seriously, but then they will get the same advice from their boss or for instance,
a therapist.
Right.
Or someone that they know that's very successful.
And now suddenly they will say, Hey, this person gave me great advice.
Now I know what I have to do.
And you want to say, Come on, I gave you exactly the same advice a year ago, but it doesn't matter.
You know, you will not accomplish anything by trying to rationalize it and explain it to them because
it's not rational.
Right.
Unfortunately, you know, two different people could give the same advice.
We will listen to one and we will want one, listen to the other one.
So here's the thing.
When you are leading someone, you have certain level of credibility of status.
So when you say something, they take it seriously.
Now, here's the funny thing.
They may not even like you that much, but the chances are if you are their leader, they will still
take it very seriously.
Right?
So you've got to use it.
You've got to use it to to the advantage of the entire team.
And you have to do your best to empower that team.
So I just want to challenge you to to go out there, unless you are already doing this, of course.
But but if you are already doing this, this is a good reminder.
Right?
But go out there and empower your people by showing them that they are better than they sometimes think
they are and by helping them to uncover their deepest potential.

--- Why & How To Become a Connector ---

Let's talk about becoming a connector.
So ideally, if you want to be a great leader, you have to become a connector.
Now, this also applies to those of you who don't have a leadership title, but you want to embrace
everyday leadership.
Becoming a connector is really powerful because it allows you to create win win situations for other
people.
Now, unfortunately, most of us by default, don't think about connecting other people.
We don't think about those win win situations.
But there is something powerful that happens when you consciously ask yourself every day, What types
of people could I connect with one another so they can create win win situations?
And I have to tell you, it's a beautiful feeling when you do that, when you consciously do that,
and then people tell you after a few months, after a year, hey, listen, thank you so much.
You you connected us and now we have a business together or hey, thank you.
You connected us, and now this person is one of my best friends, right?
So if you want to be a more powerful leader, it is important to adopt this mindset of trying to find
opportunities for other people and connecting them with one another.
And when you do it, it actually increases your status as a leader and increases your credibility.
It makes you more powerful as a leader, especially when you connect people who work for you, right
when you create opportunities for them.
So you may be wondering, Jimmy, I get it.
I agree with you.
It's important to become a connector.
How do I do it?
Well, let's start by talking about how not to do it, and maybe you can resonate with this.
I had plenty of situations when other people try to connect me with someone else, and they didn't really
do it in a very diplomatic or powerful way.
So for instance, somebody would randomly add me to some group chat on on WhatsApp and they would just
type in, Hey guys, you're both awesome.
You should get to know each other.
That's it, right?
No introduction, no mention of who that person is, who I am, why we should connect, why this is
even happening.
None of that.
No audio, no video, no one person connection, just a text.
You definitely don't want to do it right.
So how do we want to connect other people to one another?
Well, I feel like one of the most important things is that we want to make it easy for them to connect
with one another.
So whether it's in your office space or perhaps at a social event or maybe it's at some type of conference,
you want to make it very easy for those people to find a common ground.
Because when you really think about how humans develop instant connections, it is about finding a common
ground.
Whenever you meet someone and he has those basic questions like, Hey, so where do you come from?
Oh, what are you doing here?
Oh, what is your business about?
Hey, what passions do you have?
In reality, what we are doing is we are fishing for touch points.
We are fishing for connecting points that that we can essentially use to bond with another person.
So you say, hey, where do you come from?
Oh, I'm from New York.
Or really, I used to live in New York.
Right?
So now you managed to find a common ground or, Hey, what are you doing here?
Oh, you know, we came here because we love traveling or really, I love traveling as well.
Right?
So when you think about your interactions with other people, every time you connect with someone,
you essentially whenever you are asking questions, it is not that much about you being so curious about
the other person, but it's about both of you or all of you trying to fish for those connecting points.
So when you are a leader and when you connect other people with one another, you want to make it easy
for them.
In fact, ideally what you want to do is you want to literally do their job for them, right?
So instead of just introducing two people with one another and saying, Hey, you both are awesome,
you should talk, instead of saying that what you want to do is you want to help them to find that common
ground.
You may say something in the lines of, Hey, John, Missy, you should get to know each other.
So listen, John has been living in Southeast Asia for the last ten years running this the Department
of Company.
Why he's really, really into, you know, climbing mountains and he goes to the Himalayas quite a lot.
And by the way, so you've got to know that Missy has been traveling the world for the last eight years
and she also went to Southeast Asia many times.
She's in the same industry.
And guess what?
She's gone to the Himalayas next year.
You both are awesome.
You should connect now when you do it this way, you see what's happening here.
Suddenly there are they are excited because they see someone that reminds them of themselves.
You create a common ground for them.
It's so easy for them to start a bunch of conversations, almost too many things to talk about, like,
Hey, do we talk about Southeast Asia?
Do we talk about business?
Do we talk about the Himalayas?
Right.
And this is just a random example.
Literally off the top of my head.
I could give you hundreds of them right now.
The point is, you want to find the common ground for the people you introduce to one another.
And also what you want to do is you want to build them up.
Right.
So introducing people to one another is not the time for depreciating humor, right?
It is the time to build both people up.
So rather than just saying, Hey, you guys should meet each other, you are, you are great and that's
it, or you should meet each other.
You both work in the same industry.
This person did this, this person did that.
You ideally want to take it a step further and you want to take some time to express appreciation for
both people.
Hey, you know what I love about John is X, Y, and Z.
And what I love about Missy is X, Y, and Z, right?
And when you do it this way, you build their confidence in that situation, right?
You show to both of them.
Hey, both of you are valuable people.
Both of you have incredible track record.
You've done some awesome things and on top of that you should be aligned because you have similar interests.
And as you can see, there's a lot of common ground between both of you.
If you do it this way, it is so, so powerful.
So how do you do it when you introduce to people in a virtual space, whether it's on a Zoom call or
via email or perhaps via WhatsApp?
Well, use the same principles, build people up, make your introduction fairly comprehensive.
Don't just write two or three lines, but ask yourself, you know, if I was in that other person's
shoes, how would I want to be introduced?
What are the things that I would want that person that doesn't know me yet to know about me?
Right.
And basically brag for them, be that person's wingman or wing woman, and then ask yourself, okay,
what about that other person?
If I was that other person, how would I want him or her to introduce me?
What are the things that that person are meeting should know about me?
And just as long as you put yourself in their shoes, it's going to be much easier for you to calibrate
the way you you connect them with one another.
And if you do that, and if you consciously keep asking yourself, Hey, you know how can I keep connecting
incredible people with one another if you make it your habit?
I have no doubt that in no time you will become an incredible connector and it's going to certainly
help you with building your leadership muscle.

--- Increase Your Self-Esteem & Develop Confidence: Section Introduction ---

Welcome to the section about building your confidence and self esteem.
Now, this section is really important because if you want to be a powerful leader, you have to believe
in yourself.
You have to cultivate that self esteem and also confidence, right?
B You have to be confident in your ability of being a leader.
And when you don't have that confidence, when your self esteem is not very high, people can sense
it and people are not very likely to believe in a leader who doesn't believe in him or herself.
So if you want other people to believe in you, if you want them to believe in your leadership, you
have to build that confidence.
So in this section, I'm going to teach you a couple of different things about building your core confidence,
increasing your self esteem.
But also I'm going to share with you various concepts and tools and strategies that will help you with
your situational confidence, which is really important because, yes, we all have those moments when
we don't feel very good, when we don't feel very comfortable in our own skin.
And it is important to also learn how to navigate those situations, especially when you enter some
type of situation that requires you to be really confident.
So I hope that you are excited and let's go after it.

--- Do You Suffer From an Imposter Syndrome? ---

So before we delve into confidence, I have to ask you, do you suffer from imposter syndrome?
Do you sometimes have those moments when you feel like a phony, when you feel like a fake, when you
feel like a fraud?
When you feel like people will find you out?
Well, what I have to tell you is that a lot of leaders experience it, unfortunately.
And the reason is that, paradoxically, the more shelves you climb in your life, as Jim Rohn would
probably say, the more you know, but also the more you know how much you don't know.
So as you start your life, your world is very small, right?
You are in your little crib, you look around, you don't really know what you don't know.
And then as you progress through life, as you try new things, as you go to school, as you get your
first job, as you travel, your world expands.
Now you realize, well, it's no longer my crib, it's no longer my neighborhood.
And my town is the entire country.
It's the entire world is the entire universe.
Essentially, you start realizing how little you know, you learn more, but by learning more, you
realize how more there is to learn.
And on the flip side, people who don't know that much, well, they often have an illusion that they
know everything.
And I'm sure that you met those people.
You know, they they've never been to Brazil, but they are experts on Brazil.
They will dissuade you from going there and tell you how dangerous it is.
Right.
Or someone who never started the business.
But when you want to start a business, well, they have all the reasons why it's never going to work
out.
And then after there are two hour monologue, you ask them, Hey, so what types of businesses have
you started?
And they're like, Well, I haven't started the business, but everyone knows what I just said, right?
So there are those people who they don't know much, but they have an illusion that they know everything.
And it's pretty unfortunate.
Right?
And by the way, this is called the dawning Kruger effect.
You know, the fact that people who know a lot oftentimes underestimate themselves and those who don't
know that much overestimate their ability.
Fascinating concept.
So when you are a successful leader, when you are going out there, well, the more success you get,
the more likely you are to at some point feel like an imposter.
And by the way, a lot of successful people feel like impostors.
Michelle Obama admitted that she felt like an imposter.
Maya Angelou.
She wrote like 11 or 12 bestselling books.
At some point she said, Listen, whenever I publish in your book, I feel like, well, maybe they're
going to find me out.
Maybe they got to find out that I'm playing a game on them.
Right?
David Bowie and other person Tom Hanks.
I could give you plenty of examples.
The point is, a lot of people experience the imposter syndrome.
Guess what?
I experienced it myself several times in my life at some point.
To make the long story short, as I started getting some type of success in the online space, I started
feeling like if I go out there on a real stage in front of real people, I won't be able to live up
to the brand I've built for myself, right?
People are saying, Well, this guy must be a great presenter because he's making all of those videos.
What if I'm not going to live up to it?
What if I don't deserve all of this?
So I had those.
I had to battle with those demons as well.
I know a lot of successful people who they did some incredible things, have multiple companies, SALT
companies wrote bestselling books, and they reveal to me usually after a few glasses of red, that,
yes, they still experience some of that imposter.
So, look, if you experience that imposter from time to time, in a weird way, you are a part of a
good team.
You are in a good company.
But it is important that we learn how to manage that internal imposter before it starts dwarfing us.
Now, on the one hand, your imposter syndrome can sometimes help you to perform better.
For instance, if I have a presentation to give, if I was completely 100% confident, I probably wouldn't
prepare that much and then I wouldn't be able to to really nail it.
But but because there's a little bit of doubt that's healthy, that's healthy because it allows you
to prepare.
When you look at UFC fighters, there is doubt.
Even people like Conor McGregor, Right.
He believes in himself, but you know, he needs a bit of doubt to train really hard to do his best
to go out there.
Right?
And this applies to so many different people, so imposter syndrome can help you to some extent, but
the problem happens when it starts literally navigating your life.
When you wake up in the morning and you literally feel like a fraud, you feel like a fake, you feel
like a phony, you feel like you don't deserve to have whatever it is that you have.
You don't deserve to be that leader, right?
You have to learn how to navigate it.
You have to learn how to change that internal dialogue.
So I started off with this because this is a section about confidence, but a big part of building confidence
is, well, overcoming that imposter syndrome.
So a lot of the tools I'm going to share with you will not just help you to build your confidence,
but they'll also help you to overcome your inner imposter.

--- "Jimmy, am I too young to be a leader?" ---

One of the most common questions I get is So, Jimmy, am I too young to be a leader?
Can I be too young to lead other people, especially when they are older than me?
And listen, I resonate with this question because I remember that back in the day when I was younger,
I had some of those limiting beliefs and I was in a different leadership roles and sometimes people
I was leading were older than me.
I remember, you know, my my first business experience, I was working for Allianz.
I was 18, 19 years old, and I created a team of talent marketers.
So I came up with this idea.
I talked to the big boss, no one else was doing it.
And I said, Listen, I don't feel like it makes sense for me to make all the calls.
Why not get a team?
They can make the calls, they can set up the meetings, and this way I can get more meetings, I can
make more money so I can pay them and create this upward spiral.
And he said, Yeah, sure, if you want to do it, go for it and make it happen.
So I vividly remember how I was interviewed.
I was mind 18, 19 years old.
I was interviewing people who finished university.
Initially it felt awkward, right?
I felt a little bit like an imposter had am I probably oversized suit.
And I was sitting there and I would come in for those job interviews.
But the interesting thing was that I realized very quickly that all of it was in my head, right?
Initially, I felt like I'm an imposter.
They are older than me.
How can I possibly interview them?
What is going on?
They're going to find out.
But after some point, you realize, hold on a second.
The only person that is doubting me is me.
Like you.
The only person doubting me was me, right?
And I realized that they were not thinking all of those things.
They just wanted to get a job.
They're not thinking, this guy is younger now.
You know, clearly I'm in a position of being there in aliens, interviewing them.
So they didn't even think they didn't waste their time thinking about my age.
They were just thinking about themselves.
And oftentimes we tend to forget that people are too busy thinking about themselves to overthink us.
So if you're a young leader and you lead a lot of people who are older than you, you may have this
misconception that everyone is so busy overthinking you and why you are not a great leader and why you
are too young and why you have all of those limitations.
The reality is that they are too busy thinking about themselves.
So what I would say is leadership has nothing to do with age.
Now, of course, listen, if you are older, if you are 50 years old, it definitely helps, right?
If you are 15, you have a lot of experience.
People can sense it.
They give you the benefit of the doubt right away.
Just simply assume, well, this person is 50.
They have a lot of experience.
Yes, I agree.
When you are younger, when you are in your twenties especially, Right.
Or maybe late teens, people you know, they don't always give you the benefit of a doubt.
I get it.
It happens.
However, what I notice is that it all comes from within.
If you don't believe that you are old enough to be a leader, that's when you will create doubt in other
people.
However, if you believe that you are old enough, if you believe that your age has nothing to do with
your ability to be a great leader, when you approach it with humility, guess what?
You will be old enough because people will feel whatever you feel as a leader.
People will feel whatever you feel.
You probably know the other situations when as a leader you are really stressed out and you enter the
office and then suddenly everyone else feels a bit stressed out.
But on the flip side, maybe you cause a big deal and you are so happy you're over the moon.
You walk into the office and everyone is upbeat and everyone feels good.
Why?
Well, because as a leader you will influence other people.
So when you believe that you are old enough, when you believe you know what?
I have enough experience.
I may not be the oldest here, but I believe in myself as a leader.
I'm learning I'm not perfect.
I don't know everything, but I'm doing my best.
People will be able to sense it and they will feel that confidence in you and they'll be more likely
to follow you.
Now, I say confidence.
There's a difference between confidence and arrogance, and I have to talk about it for a little bit
because there is one mistake that, well, unfortunately, many young leaders make.
They are so high on their own supply that they became leaders and they have those people in their team
that are older than them, that they get overconfident.
Right.
They get overconfident without solid reasons to do so.
And this is something that people really dislike.
If you are a young leader, you have to understand that when you are leading people older than you,
you have to be extra humble.
You've got to be extra humble.
Right?
It's by the way, it's important to be humble always for any leader in any situation, for any human,
in fact, leader or not leader.
But when you are a young leader, when you have other people on your team, it's especially important
to be humble in your confidence.
Yes, you've got to be confident as a leader, but you have to be humble and you have to give people
the respect they deserve.
Right.
Rather than assuming that you know everything, acknowledge the fact that you are a young leader, you're
doing your best, you are here for a reason, but at the same time you don't know everything and you
are open to listen to other people, especially those with more experience than you.
Right?
In fact, it's one of the most.
And traits of great leaders that you are willing to listen to what other people have to say.
You don't always assume that you know everything.
In fact, one of the best things you can do as a young leader is to ask other people for what they think
about specific situations rather than pretending that you know everything.
And you're the big shot in a suit and you are the highest paid person here.
You are the leader, you get humble and with that calm confidence, you are willing to approach other
people in your team who have more experience and tell them, Listen, this is the situation.
These are some of the options that we can embrace.
But you all have a lot of experience, John.
You have a lot of experience.
Maria, I know you've been in this industry for the last ten years.
I would love to hear what you have to say.
Let's co-create the solution to this problem together.
Let's figure this out as a team.
Now, when you are a leader like this, I have to tell you, people will love you for it and everyone
will forget about your age.
So you have to be confident, but at the same time you have to be humble.
And rather than trying to fix everything by yourself as a leader, you have to co-create solutions with
your team.
You have to give your team not just the permission, but you want to propel your team.
You enthusiastically propel your team to share what they think about any particular situation.
When you do that, you create this team cohesion, you create synergy, you create this incredible team
spirit.
You will propel the bonding of the team and again, you will become a better leader and no one will
care about your age.
People simply look at you and say, You know what?
I don't care how old this person is or is not.
I believe in my leader.
This is a great leader right there.

--- Become an Actress/Actor for Better Leadership ---

If you want to become a great leader, you have to become an actor or an actress.
And this may sound counterintuitive.
If you know my other courses, you may have heard about this concept, but I want to talk to you about
it in the context of you being a better leader.
And trust me, this is one of those things that if you take it seriously, it's going to help you tremendously
to become a much better leader and more powerful leader, most importantly, is going to help you to
cut your learning curve, right?
Instead of progressing from here to here, let's say in five years, you may be able to do it in a year
or even less than that.
It's a powerful concept.
So what do best actors have in common, right?
Whatever actors or actresses you like the most, what do they have in common?
Well, what they have in common is that they are not just playing the role, but they are becoming their
character.
Now, when you listen to interviews with some of the best actresses and actors, you will notice that
a lot of them say, I didn't just play that character.
I became that character to the point where I literally started forgetting who I am, that that I'm that
actor.
I literally felt like I am that character.
So Al Pacino, when he was playing Scarface, he literally said, like, Well, listen, I had to imagine
I'm this vicious Mafia chief.
Like, that's what I became.
It was crazy.
So here's my favorite example.
Russell Crowe.
I'm not sure if you saw A Beautiful Mind and amazing movie, right?
So in that movie, he was playing this mathematician a little bit awkward, right?
Definitely wasn't socially savvy.
And at the same time, in The Gladiator, he played the Gladiator, right?
He played this really strong, powerful character.
So when you juxtapose those two characters, The Gladiator and John Nash, that that was his name,
John Nash from A Beautiful Mind.
It's like they're completely different, completely different, yet they are played by the same actor.
So the question is, how is it possible?
Well, again, he embodied that character.
So if he can do it, obviously he's an amazing actor and there are plenty of amazing actors and actresses,
but I believe that we can all learn something from them.
You may not be as good as them at embodying that character, but you can certainly try.
So the question is why not imagine that you are that actress or an actor?
Why not ask yourself, What would I have to do?
How do I have to behave to become the best leader literally, that has ever walked the planet Earth?
I know it sounds crazy, but ask yourself that question What do you have to do?
How do you have to speak?
How do you have to behave?
What type of integrity do you have to have in order to become literally that incredible leader, the
leader that you aspire to be?
And at the beginning of this course, I asked you, Hey, what type of leader do you want to become?
I said, This is so important to define where you want to be as a leader, Right?
And the ideal situation, Who do you want to become?
Well, ask yourself if you were an actor or an actress, what would you do?
How would you play that leader?
And here's a thought experiment, and this is so powerful.
And whenever I talk to people about it, a lot of them have this aha moment.
Ha, this is so interesting.
Never thought about it, but this is powerful.
So imagine that you are just strolling down the street and out of nowhere, you know, fancy car pulls
up, maybe some Ferrari, and somebody jumps out and they say, Hey, listen, I got to talk to you.
We are just making a movie in LA.
This this Hollywood production, a big budget production.
And you look just like that one actress or that one actor that we had.
But that person got sick.
And we really we have a really strict schedule and we have a deadline.
We have to finish that movie.
We need you.
And by the way, now that I talk to you, the way you talk, you are the perfect person.
We need you.
So here's the thing.
Here's a budget.
We pay you half a million, we fly you in business class, you stay in a nice villa, is going to take
just a week.
It's not a big role.
Not a big role.
Don't worry.
Just one week of your life.
Half a million.
We going to pay you business class.
You meet all the famous people, right?
We're going to set you up.
And here's the thing.
And by the way, so when you hear this, you're thinking to yourself, wow, this is an opportunity
of my life.
Like, whatever they want me to do, I'll do it right.
I'll do whatever they want me to do, even if they change their mind is you've got to dig ditches.
You will do anything right.
But then at some point that person tells you, Oh, but here's the thing.
You're going to be playing that really confident character.
Are you going to be playing a leader in this incredible organization?
And you are literally playing like the archetype of a great leader.
So you're going to be confident, you're going to be inspiring, you're going to be empowering, you're
going to be charismatic and charming at the same time.
Are you going to be a great communicator?
You're going to have this incredible body language, the presence about you walk into the room and everyone
notices you, right?
Completely confident, yet humble.
You're going to play that character.
Are you in?
Right.
And the question is, would you be in?
And, you know, most people say, you know what, half a million business class flight meeting all
those people, Great opportunity.
I don't know how I'm going to do it, but I'm in, I'm in.
Let's figure it out.
You would figure it out, right?
You would figure it out.
You are taking this course because you are either a leader now or you aspire to be a leader.
Literally you are ambitious, clearly know you have what it takes.
You would do it.
You would figure it out.
How would you do it?
Well, you would ask yourself, okay, so if I was that confident leader, if I was the charismatic,
empowering leader, how would I have to act?
How would I speak?
Right?
How would I look at people?
How would I maintain eye contact?
How would I move my body?
You would ask yourself those questions, and then you would figure out what you have to do with your
body and with your mind internally to represent that character.
You would figure it out.
And you may say, Well, yeah, yeah, I would, because the stakes are high.
Half a million.
Let me tell you this.
In your regular life, stakes are even higher because it's your actual life.
And what do you become that incredible leader or not?
It's going to change the trajectory of your life, Right?
What do you embrace opportunities with confidence, whether you go out there and push your comfort zone,
whether you become great leader for your team and empower your team, that's going to make a difference
in your trajectory.
And initially, the difference may not be that big, but over time it's going to keep getting bigger
and bigger and bigger.
And here's the thing Over the next ten years, the difference may be massive, right?
So what you do right now will make a difference whether you'll be just a little bit successful, whatever
the definition of success is to you.
Right.
Because everyone has their own definition of success or whether you're going to be a massive success
and love your life.
Right.
So again, it's important.
It's so important.
It's your life and you clearly want to become a better leader.
Well, ask yourself this simple question, right?
What would that actor or actress do if they were playing that role?
What would I do if I was playing that role?
And now ask yourself, okay, well, so what can I do right now to become a little bit like that actress
or actor?
What can I do to to become a better leader?
And suddenly answers will come, Clarity will come.
Suddenly you will give yourself the permission to be a better leader.
And I'm talking about this is so important because a lot of us, we don't give ourselves the permission.
We have a lot of things holding us back and we feel like, Well, I want to be a better leader.
I want to be more confident, I want to be more charismatic, I want to speak more to my team.
But we have certain self image that is holding us back.
We have identity that is just pulling us back, right?
It's terrible.
It's terrible and it's so hard to break out of it.
So sometimes you just have to give yourself a permission.
You know what?
I'm not going to stick to that negative identity or that disempowering identity.
No, no.
I'm going to give myself the permission to be that actress or that actor and go out there and become
the best character I can become.
So think about it in the context of your life.
I hope that this is inspiring, but I hope it's going to be more done inspiring if you take action.
That's the difference, right?
If you just watch this, it may be inspiring, but if you take action, you really think about it.
You ponder it deeply.
And you know, today or tomorrow, next time you have interactions with people, ask yourself that question
right now.
Ask yourself what would your favorite actor or actress do in this situation?
I just do it.
Just do it.
And suddenly you start realizing, Oh, wow, Like this starts becoming your reality.

--- Communication Skills in Leadership: Section Introduction ---

It is impossible to create a course on leadership without talking about communication skills.
Communication is extremely important and it's going to determine the quality of your relationships with
your team.
And guess what?
That's going to determine the types of results that you are getting, the synergy that you are creating.
So in this section, I will share with you various strategies and also mindset shifts and tools for
becoming a better communicator.
Now we have a separate section about communicating with groups of people.
So here I'm going to focus on primarily one on one communication.
For instance, given feedback, receive and feedback and some of the tools that you can use to become
a more powerful communicator.
I'm going to add some extra videos here as well that are not inextricably connected to this course,
but I know that they will help you a lot.
They'll be beneficial.
So I figured I may as well add them.
I hope that you will enjoy this section and let's get started.

--- The Feedback Sandwich ---

Have you ever had a situation when somebody wanted to give you a piece of feedback and the way they
did it wasn't very diplomatic.
They came up to you and they said, Hey, listen, I got to tell you, you really messed up.
You really messed up.
You did this wrong and you did that wrong.
Yeah.
Can you please fix it?
How does it make you feel?
It makes you feel defensive, right?
You probably feel like, what does that person know?
Instead of thinking about that feedback and asking yourself how you can implement it, you're probably
asking yourself, okay, when did that person mess up?
You're probably trying to find situations when they messed up so you don't feel bad about yourself.
And so you can prove to them that you are not the only person making mistakes, right?
So when you give feedback in such a way, it's very easy for people to get defensive.
Now, on the flip side, I'm sure that you had situations when you received a different type of feedback
that was a bit more diplomatic when the other person, maybe your boss came up to you and said, Hey,
listen, you know, first of all, great job on Project X like you did a really good job.
I like the way you handled all the stakeholders.
Now, there is something I have to tell you, you know, and please don't take it the wrong way.
But there's something I have to tell you.
You know, the way you did that particular thing, it could have been done a little bit better.
And here is why.
Right.
And you know, that person gave you some reasons and some examples and some solutions and then finished
off by saying, but listen, this is not a big deal.
I'm sure you can fix it.
And once again, amazing job on project a right feels completely different.
Suddenly you are not defensive.
Suddenly it doesn't necessarily feel like a criticism.
It feels like just a friendly piece of advice, Hey, you're doing great, but you can improve.
Now, of course, there are exceptions.
If somebody really messes up, if someone is stealing money from the company's bank account or if someone,
you know, verbally abused the customer, that's a different story, right?
You don't always have to be diplomatic.
But I feel like in most situations when we give feedback, it is important to be diplomatic and to create
a feedback sandwich.
Essentially, when you start with something positive, then you give the constructive criticism and
then you end with something positive because this is the only way for people to actually open up and
to listen to your feedback.
Otherwise, if you just focus on the negative, people are not likely to listen.
They are more likely to shut themselves down and again, try to think about different moments when you
messed up, right?
So so they can respond.
They can have a verbal fight with you.
Right.
Or even if they don't verbalize some of the things that they are thinking about in their heads, they
are probably focusing on that rather than thinking about your feedback.
So use the criticism sandwich.
Always start with something positive.
Then tell them about that criticism.
Do it diplomatically and then finish off with something positive.
Now, if this doesn't work and that person keeps making the same mistake, of course you may have to
be more direct and you may have to skip on the positivity and you may have to get straight to the point.
But initially there is usually no need to be super critical.
If you want people to be receptive.

--- This Common Behaviour Screams Insecurity ---

Let's talk a little bit about overcompensating now.
This is one of the worst things that you can do as a leader.
And I'm sure you had situations when you met somebody and they were very quick to tell you about their
accomplishments.
Oh, I've done this and I've done that.
Oh, by the way, that situation reminds me of how I accomplished it and how I accomplished that.
It turns people off, you know, And oftentimes what happens is we don't realize that we are overcompensating
and we don't realize what is obvious to everyone else, that we are a little bit insecure.
Right.
Usually the person who behaves like this doesn't see how they are behaving.
And look, maybe it happened to you.
It happened to me certainly earlier on my journey when I was actually overcompensating because I come
from post-communist Poland.
I grew up without a lot of money.
I had to teach myself English.
So I had insecurities about not having money and about having a funny accent.
Right.
So what do you do?
Well, you overcompensate.
You try to prove to the world that you are good enough.
And unfortunately, you know, a lot of leaders try to do that.
They want to stroke their ego and they want to fill that void deep inside.
But the more we do it, the more we turn people off.
And on the flip side, you probably met a person who was very humble.
You talk to that person and they were not talking much about their accomplishments.
They were asking a lot of questions and you had a great conversation and then afterwards you found out
from someone else, Oh, you didn't know.
John owns a $100 Million company.
Oh, you didn't know Maria has a TV show, right?
Oh, you didn't know Jacquline has this huge animal shelter and she has this foundation and she has
five different businesses now.
That's really impressive.
When that person didn't tell you any of that themselves.
Or maybe they told you a little bit, but without overdoing it, without putting too much emphasis on
all the numbers and all the specific accomplishments, and then you found out about their track record
from someone else, That is impressive, right?
So you want to be a leader like this.
Now, does it mean that you should never share your accomplishments?
No, of course not.
Right.
You've got to be confident.
And there are situations when you just have to tell people what you've done right.
You have to tell them about your credibility, your track record.
For instance, right at the beginning of this course, I had to introduce myself.
And normally I don't like introductions.
I don't like to label myself.
I love to talk about ideas, concepts.
I love conversations, podcasts like conversations.
I don't necessarily like to talk about myself.
Now.
I had to tell you about myself.
I had to introduce myself because otherwise you'll be asking yourself, okay, why should I listen to
this guy?
Is he credible?
Or maybe he's some type of charlatan, right?
So I had to tell you that I worked for certain companies that I do corporate training for.
For many big companies that I have experience running my own business, that I hire people.
I had to tell you all of those things because otherwise, why would you listen to me?
But it's done within a context.
Now, I don't volunteer to share all of that information over and over again in every single video.
So again, in your situation as a leader, there will be moments when you have to talk about some of
your accomplishments.
You have to talk about your own personal case.
Studies write, of how you managed to accomplish certain things, but it all depends on the context,
right?
However, there is a difference between being confident and believing in yourself and owning who you
are and what you've accomplished and overcompensating at every single step and every single opportunity.
It really turns people off.
People don't like it.
And the reality is that the more you seek approval, the more you want to be liked by people, the more
you want to show off how great you are and all of the accomplishments that you have.
Well, usually the opposite is the case.
You get the opposite result.
You're kind of like the dog chasing its own tail, right?
So the more approval and validation we seek, usually, the less we get it.
And when you look at all of the people out there that you really respect, that you admire for various
things, those confident, accomplished, successful people, well, a lot of them, they don't show
off.
They don't have to.
If you are the biggest person in the room, you don't really have to say anything.
Right.
If you have a lot of money, you own a bunch of companies and maybe you sold companies.
You don't have to keep telling people, Hey, by the way, I just pay 200,000 for a car.
Oh, you know, me and my wife, we are building this $2 million house.
You don't have to add those little bits and pieces in there to show off, because everyone knows.
Everyone knows you are the richest person in the room, Right?
If you're really healthy, you've got a six pack, right?
And you are really physically fit.
You don't have to keep telling people how much you work out and how much you take care of yourself.
So again, you know, actions speak more than words, right.
And people can see the result.
Now, look, I understand that for most of you, this will not even apply.
Most of you watching this, you don't overcompensate.
You are not trying to show off all the time.
But I felt like it was important to make this video because, yes, it is one of the biggest pitfalls
of leadership.
A lot of leaders make this mistake Now, if you happen to be one of those people that maybe sometimes
make this mistake, at least, you know, this video hopefully made you think.
And if you are not one of those people, then hopefully this is some good food for thought as you are
observing the leadership of other people.

--- How To Get People to Listen to You? ---

So one of the most common questions I get, Jimmy, how do you make people want to listen to you?
Right.
What is the secret?
People don't want to listen to me.
I'm their leader.
But I sense that when I try to tell them something, I want to give them some feedback.
They are just not listening to me.
And the answer is actually very simple.
It's more simple than you may think.
And the secret is, if you want people to listen to you, you have to first listen to them, right?
It's as simple as it is, sometimes simple as powerful.
So if we want people to listen to us, like really, really listen, not just, you know, listening
with one ear, but actually paying attention, We have to listen to them.
We have to be genuinely interested in them.
And it's important to analyze yourself in various situations you have with your employees as a leader
and ask yourself, Are you a good listener?
Do you listen actively?
Or perhaps when someone talks about something, someone asks you about something.
Maybe one of your team members is trying to consult you on something?
Are you paying attention to them?
Are you looking them into their eyes?
Are you actively listening?
Are you nodding?
Are you asking follow up questions or are you busy on your phone?
Are you shuffling papers?
Are you do you have this demeanor of I'm busy.
Talk real quick because I don't have the time for you.
Is your body language open or is it closed?
Right.
Do you face them or do you face away from them?
These are all important considerations because I have to tell you, if you don't listen to your people,
if you don't listen to them actively with genuine interest, with curiosity, really showing that you
care, that you want to hear them, you want to really hear what they have to say.
If you don't do that, it's virtually impossible to make people want to listen to you.
But on the flip side, if you cultivate that ability to listen actively, to listen with genuine interest,
you will see that people, they will love you for it and they will want to listen to you.

--- Preaching vs. Staying Conversational ---

When you address big groups of people and you talk to your team, be conversational.
Don't preach right.
What you don't want to do is you don't be standing there saying, Hey, you've got to do this and you've
got to do that.
And by the way, Jody, you have to do this and you team, you need to do that.
You don't want to do it this way.
You want to be as conversational as possible.
You want to be likable.
You want to you want to remember that when you are addressing groups of people, you're actually not
talking to a group, You are talking to specific people.
You just happen to be talking to them all at the same time.
So for instance, when I go to different conferences, I may have 2000 people in the audience, but
in my head I'm not perceiving them as this big mob, this massive crowd.
I'm not talking to a crowd.
Crowd is not a being.
It doesn't exist.
It's just a concept.
I'm talking to every single person in there, one at a time.
I just happen to be lucky enough to be able to speak to all of them right now at the same time.
Because when you think about whatever comes out of your mouth is not interpreted by the group, it is
interpreted by each person's brain.
So, yes, essentially you are talking to one person at a time.
And this is why if you have issues with trying to get yourself to speak to your team, just picture
talking to one person at a time rather than trying to make one of those big preachy presentations,
literally imagine that you are addressing one person at a time.
And by the way, as you are doing it, literally give eye contact to everyone in the room.
And this in itself will help you to make it happen.
Right.
Rather than and I know, by the way, that this is easier said than done when you're in front of a lot
of people.
It may be very tempting to look far away, to look above their heads, to avoid eye contact because
we are scared while we are stressed out.
So it's so easy to look someone at the wall and just say whatever we have to say really quickly and
try to preach.
Try to avoid that.
Ideally, imagine you are talking to one person at a time.
The only difference is that all of those people happen to be in the same room all at the same time,
which is awesome for you because this is like the embodiment of productivity.
You don't have to speak to them one at a time.
You get to speak to them all at once and save yourself and all of them.
A lot of time now when you have this mindset, it will help you to calibrate your message and it's going
to help you to be a little bit more conversational.
Now you notice that when I make those videos, I tried these, I tried.
I know I can always do a better job, right?
There's always room for improvement, but I do my best to make it very conversational.
I literally try to imagine that I'm talking to one of my business friends and I'm trying to help that
person.
I use the word up a lot, right?
I don't try to preach.
I don't try to speak in a textbook language, but I try to make it about you.
I try to make it practical.
And so far, the feedback is this is one of the reasons why a lot of people watch my courses.
Now, again, I can improve and I try to improve every single day, but from my experience, I notice
that the more conversational I try to be, the better the content is.
And the same thing applies to addressing any group of people.

--- Don’t Make This Common Eye Contact Mistake ---

Let me ask you a question.
Have you ever attended a presentation, whether it was a big one or perhaps something a bit more informal
within your team and the person who was presenting never, ever gave you the eye contact or perhaps
you were at some type of conference or you were doing a group discussion with only three or four people.
And again, the person that was primarily speaking never acknowledged.
You never looked at you.
Now, how did it make you feel?
And we all had those situations, right?
It makes you feel like you don't belong there.
It makes you feel like that person doesn't really care about you.
We have this feeling that you shouldn't even be there.
You feel rejected.
You feel like, Hey, does that person even like me?
Right?
It's almost like they want to tell you something.
They want to tell you, Hey, you shouldn't even be here.
You don't deserve to be here.
And unfortunately, as leaders, oftentimes we make our people feel like this when we are presenting,
but also when we are just addressing a group.
So it is important to maintain eye contact with everyone involved, whether you are giving a presentation
or whether you are addressing your team.
Now, I'm aware that sometimes it can be really tricky, especially when you are talking to 20 people
and you feel already a little bit stressed out because perhaps you don't like public speaking, But
it is important that you do your best to acknowledge every person in the room.
Now, by the rule of thumb, the less people you are talking to, the more important it is to give direct
eye contact to every single person.
So say if I'm talking to you and there are three other people around, it is important that even though
I may primarily be talking to you, I want to give some direct eye contact to everyone else involved.
Right.
I may still give most of the eye contact to you since I'm primarily addressing you, but if those people
are around, I still want to give them at least some direct eye contact.
So what happens when you are talking to a bigger group, say, 25, 30, perhaps 40 different people
in your organization?
Well, you don't necessarily have to just switch from person to person all the time can be quite exhausting,
but you want to make sure that you give everyone some type of eye contact at least once throughout your
presentation.
It is important because otherwise they will feel left out.
Now, when the group is even bigger, say it's 100 people or perhaps 200 people even more, even at
1000 people at some conference, rather than trying to give eye contact to a specific person one at
a time, you can basically divide the room into different sections.
So for instance, when I present, if I have 1000 people in the audience, I may divide the room into
five, six, seven, eight different sections, and I make sure that I give my eye contact to each one
of those sections.
Because the great thing about eye contact is that the further away people are from you, the more wiggle
room you have in terms of your eye contact, Right?
If you are standing directly in front of me and I'm looking away, you can see that I'm not looking
at you.
Right.
However, if you go further, I can look a little bit away and you will still have a perception that
I'm talking directly to you because, well, my general direction is I'm looking at you.
So essentially, the closer you are, the more accurate I have to be with my eye contact.
But the further you are, the more I can deviate and look a little bit to the side.
So so what it does is if, say, people in your audience are 20 meters away from you, you could look
into their general direction and those ten or 15 people will all have a perception that you are looking
directly at them.
But remember that when you are talking to smaller groups, when you are doing group discussions with
just a couple of people, five, six, seven, eight people, give eye contact, every single person.
And this way you will engage them and you will show them that they are welcomed in their.

--- Body Language Section Introduction ---

Welcome to the section about your body language as a leader.
So initially I didn't plan to create an extra section.
My initial idea was, yeah, let me talk a little bit about body language in a video or two.
Wasn't planning an extra section, but a lot of people are asking me about body language and I recognize
that it is important.
In fact, it is inextricably connected to you being better, more empowering, more confident, more
charismatic as a leader.
So let's get deep into it.
Let's talk about body language.
And of course, I'm not going to give you tens of different videos, just about body language.
I do have separate courses just on body language where I go very, very deep with all types of examples.
But here I will make it comprehensive enough.
So even if you just watch this section about body language, you have a better understanding of body
language, all types of nonverbal signals than most people.
So I hope that you are excited and let's get into it.

--- Avoid this Body Language Trap at All Costs ---

Let me ask you a question.
Have you ever had a situation when you didn't feel at your best, you just didn't feel it for whatever
reason and maybe you're already a confident leader, perhaps you are already very positive and and you
tend to be inspiring.
But you had a bad day.
And what happened?
Well, it was probably reflected in your body language.
You're probably not walking like this with a big smile on your face, but it probably were slouching
a little bit, maybe crossing your arms, perhaps looking down.
And here's the thing.
When we do those things and this is so important, when we do those things, the body language that
you have will impact how you feel, right?
So it's a tricky thing, right?
Because if you already don't feel good, it is reflected in your body language, but then that body
language exacerbates those feelings.
So if you don't feel very confident, you're likely to look down, you're likely to slouch, you're
unsure of yourself.
You may use some of the pacifying behaviors.
I'm going to talk about them later on.
But behaviors like this that basically show that you feel uncomfortable and then when you do that again,
that sends a signal to your brain.
We are not feeling very confident today.
And I guess what happens, you have even more of those nonverbal behaviors and eventually you hide yourself.
You don't even know about it oftentimes, but you get into the hide mode.
Maybe you are at the board meeting and you don't feel at your best.
And you notice at some point, maybe you don't notice that you are slouching, going so low like you
want to disappear from that room.
This happens a lot.
So in those situations you have to snap out.
You have to recognize, you know what, I'm getting into hide mode.
I don't feel that good.
And paradoxically, in order to feel better, I have to snap out of it with my body language.
So oftentimes we think, well, I don't feel good, right?
This is my body language.
Now.
It's not very positive.
Let me feel better here in order to positively impact my body language.
But actually it works the other way around.
So if you don't feel good in your own brain, if you just don't feel like it's your day, right, don't
wait for yourself to feel better.
Trigger a better feeling with the power of your body language.
Right?
And by the way, you can use this for your employees as well.
People in your team teach them this.
Let them know that this is how it actually works.
I'm sure we have situations when your team members come into the office like this, right?
Or you're trying to sell something, they are doing a sales meeting and they are like this and they
seem unsure of themselves or they're delivering a presentation and again, they walk in like this.
They don't want to take too much space, right?
As if they don't they don't deserve to take too much space.
So you want to make sure that you empower yourself, but also empower people who work for you, Empower
your team members and teach them and remember yourself that what you do with your body will impact how
you feel.
So rather than getting into the downward spiral where you essentially get trapped by this hide mode,
you don't feel good body language like this.
This makes you feel even worse.
Slouch even more, look down pacifying behaviors, know snap out, snap out of it, and ask yourself
how would confident person stand or sit right now?
Open up, Try to put a smile on your face.
Could be a fake smile just fine.
Even a fake smile is going to make you feel better.
You have a lot of muscles in your face.
You start using them.
Bam, signal into your brain.
Ha!
We are smiling.
Well, maybe there is a reason why we are smiling.
Maybe there is a reason.
So you feel better, You feel better.
You're more likely to smile.
You're more likely to open up even more.
And the next thing you know, rather than get into a downward spiral, you are going into the upward
positive spiral.
That's exactly what you want to create.

--- Never Ever Make This Mistake ---

Was going on.
Let me ask you a quick question, and this is going to sound a little bit strange.
You may feel a bit weird, but I'm doing it on purpose.
I'm doing it on purpose.
I'm going to explain later on.
But I want to ask you a question.
So can you please give me a review on this course?
Can you please give me a review on this course?
How does this sound?
How does it feel?
Feels weird, right?
Feels weird.
Now, why does it feel weird?
Because I ask you for a rating.
Probably not because of that.
Because you've already watched a lot of videos.
It makes sense that I politely ask you for writing.
I said Please.
But what is wrong here?
Well, this is wrong because it doesn't matter what you say verbally when you use this gesture.
This gesture is not very positive.
It's actually it's very negative.
It's very domineering.
It's as if I want to dominate you.
Right.
A lot of people use this one day, order people to do things.
Hey, you should do this.
Hey, hey.
Go and do that.
Right?
Basically shows I'm in charge.
You are nobody.
And you've got to do whatever it is that I want you to do.
Hey, you go do this.
Do this.
And the thing is, even when you are polite, right?
Even if you are super polite and you say, Hey, you know, I really like you.
Can you please do this?
Can you put it still sends the same signal because your non verbal signals in many ways are more important,
more powerful than your verbal signals.
Right.
And listen, if you don't believe me, just try to walk up to someone that that you love and tell them,
you know what?
I really love you.
It's not going to work because this is more powerful than what you say.
You have to be congruent, your verbal and your non verbal.
They just have to be congruent.
So never use this gesture.
Now, let me give you a different example.
I'm going to say pretty much the same thing with a different gesture.
Hey, can you please give me a review on this course?
I would really, really appreciate it.
It makes such a difference, right?
Hey, can you please.
I can use both hands.
Can you please give me a review on this course?
I would really, really appreciate it.
Right?
Versus.
Hey, can you please give me a review on this course?
I would really, really appreciate it.
All right.
This feels even feels weird for me to do this with the finger.
Right.
But I want to show this to you.
So you see those two examples and try this with a friend.
Try it with a friend and say nice things using this gesture.
And they say not so nice things using this gesture.
And you will see in a weird way, sometimes someone can say something not so nice to you using this
gesture, open position, showing the palms and then say something nice to you using this gesture and
this will still feel better.
Try it for yourself and do some talking about it is because this is a leadership course and a lot of
leaders make this mistake right.
We make this mistake, a lot of us.
Right?
So we want somebody to do something.
And rather than saying, hey, can you please do this?
Hey John, can you kindly send me that spreadsheet?
Hey, Joanna, can you please talk to this team and figure this out?
We say, Hey, John, can you please do this?
And listen, you can you do this and can you do that?
This you have to remember.
You have to remember if you tend to do this, not all of you watching this tend to do this.
If you don't do it, observe other leaders making this mistake.
And by the way, if you have leaders within your team, maybe you are the big boss and you have managers
underneath you.
Well, tell them about it.
Right.
Observe them.
If you know anybody who is in your team who does that, just tell them about this very politely.
But explain to them because it is important, it's going to change the dynamic in the entire team.
So as you can see, sometimes the most simple changes can create the biggest results.
I hope that you enjoyed it, and I'm going to see you in the next video.
