

=== You Will Become a Master Storyteller! ===


--- Quick Win! Here is Where to Find Great Stories ---

Let's start off with a quick win.
People come to me all the time and say, Where do I find these stories for my business presentations?
I want you to think of one annoying customer, client or colleague.
Surely there must be one.
Think of the last time this person called you, emailed you text you about some problem.
What was it?
How did you help this person solve the problem?
What did they say to you?
How are they feeling?
How were you feeling and how did it all get resolved?
That's your story.
In so many cases, whether you're pitching new business, trying to get a proposal approved, trying
to get a budget approved, simply retelling real experiences with real colleagues, clients, customers.
That's the source of your story.
You don't have to hire Hemingway and become a great creative writer.
Just retell experiences you have with annoying and annoyed people and you'll be in great shape.

--- What to Cut When Time is Short ---

I was walking out of the Jacob Javits Center.
It's this huge convention center over on the west side of Manhattan.
The other day there was a huge high tech conference and I couldn't help but overhear two of the other
people in attendance talking to each other.
And one of them said, I hated the way that last speaker gave so many interesting, relevant stories
about what's going on in our industry.
Okay.
I'm being facetious.
I didn't hear that.
In fact, nobody has ever heard that.
Nobody ever complains about a speaker giving too many interesting, relevant stories.
So when you got to decide what to cut more facts, more data or more stories, don't cut the stories.


=== These Elements Are a Part of Every Great Story ===


--- The Perfect Way to Start Every Presentation ---

Did you see what I just did right there?
In the previous lecture, we had the quick wins lecture.
We hadn't really started, but last lecture was the first real lecture of this whole course.
I didn't start by saying Hello, thank you so much for signing up for my course.
I'm happy to be here today.
Let me tell you about how great I am.
I'm TJ Walker and I've founded media training worldwide and I've been doing this for 30 some years,
and I have 100,000 students and I've written best selling books.
That's not how I started because that's boring.
And so much of what gives people frustration, nervousness when they're starting a presentation is this
fear of being boring.
Well, it turns out it's a legitimate fear because most people start off the way I just did a second
ago.
They start talking about me, me, me.
I better justify myself.
Otherwise, why should anyone pay attention?
Let me defend myself enough to have the right to speak here.
That's the mentality people have.
But the best way to start a presentation?
Look at what I did in the previous lecture.
I just launched right into a story.
So stories are great, not just to make presentations more interesting stories are great, not just
to lighten the mood.
Stories are not great just to get a laugh, but they're the best way to actually start a presentation
because then, you know, you'll be interesting and your audience will be hooked from the beginning.


=== The Easy Way to Have 100% Confidence In Your Stories, But You Might Not Like It! ===


--- Instant Answers to Your Storytelling Questions ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Select the Winning Message for Your Audience ===


--- If You Aren't a Natural Born Storyteller, You Need to Watch This ---

There is no such thing as a natural public speaker or a natural storyteller.
It is completely a learned behavior.
I remember my first speech and I was only 12 years old.
I was a really shy kid.
I mean, I was probably bottom 10%.
I didn't need any extra counseling, but I was always a quiet, shy kid.
And one day my teacher came up to me, Mrs. Stroup, this was at Bruns Avenue Elementary School in Charlotte,
North Carolina.
She kind of pulled me aside, almost whispered to me.
And said, Timmy, that's what I went by back then.
I'll make a deal with you right now.
You've got all good grades except for handwriting.
You've got a bad grade and handwriting.
Your handwriting is not very good.
I'll make a deal with you.
How would you like it if I gave you an A in handwriting?
All you have to do is give the welcoming speech to the elementary school graduation ceremony next month.
Now, I barely spoke in class, much less in front of all the parents and teachers and students.
I had no natural ability for that at all.
But I did like the idea of getting an A instead of a bad grade for public speaking.
So I said, Sure, mister, I'll do it.
And I started preparing and I wrote and rewrote the speech and it was all printed out.
And I got up the day of graduation and it kind of went like this.
Welcome parents, teachers and students at Bruns Avenue Elementary School.
On behalf of the students, I would like to welcome you to this graduation.
It was not a very good speech.
It didn't exactly get me a standing ovation.
But you know what?
I got through that speech that day.
Lions and tigers and bears didn't eat me.
I didn't faint.
I didn't collapse.
And I learned a very important lesson.
If you are just willing to stand up and speak, people will give you things.
You'll distinguish yourself.
Good things come your way.
And I've been speaking ever since and ideally getting a little bit better ever since.
Okay, so what did I do there?
I just told you a little story.
Why?
To make the point.
I wanted to make the intellectual point that nobody's born a public speaker or born a natural storyteller.
It's a learned skill, but it only takes five seconds to say that point.
If you say it quickly, briefly, at the abstract level, nobody remembers it by telling a story.
It makes the point more visual, it slows it down, it makes it more memorable.
Therefore, you're much more likely to have an impact.


=== The Story Behind Stories ===


--- The Only Thing Every Great Speaker Has In Common ---

If you want to jump right ahead and go to the next section, we'll really delve with the nitty gritty
of how you create stories.
Break it down element by element so you can start crafting your own.
But I do want to ask your indulgence.
Bear with me a little more in this section because I want to really establish the right framework of
how to think about stories and just change your whole approach to stories.
I appreciate you being in this course.
You obviously have an interest in improving your storytelling abilities for your presentation, but
I want to take just a few more minutes to to really step back a minute and look at why this is so important.
I've been doing public speaking training around the globe for more than 30 years, and I always ask
people, Who's the best speaker you've seen in the last year in your industry, the last five years,
maybe ever, And what do you remember?
I've never yet had anyone say, Oh, remember this person who had 18 slides and all these bullet points
and the color coded charts and the graphs?
I've never had anyone mention that.
The only thing I ever have.
People mentioned consistently the stories they said, Oh yeah, I remember the story, this speaker
said.
And they go into explicit detail.
Now they may remember humor that the person walked around was engaging, but when it comes to the substance,
they remember the stories.
In my experience, the one thing and the only thing that unites all great speakers across continents,
across industries, doesn't matter what field they're in or even what level they are in their profession.
The one thing that unites great speakers is they use stories consistently in every single presentation
they give and.
In every single point in their presentation.
They illustrate it with a story.
Great speakers know something that the rest of us don't, which is that it's the stories that are essential.
More and more facts.
Data.
That's an extra.
The big problem most of us have is we go into a presentation with this mentality of, Oh, it's about
the facts, it's about the data.
And the story is the extra.
I want to really get you to reverse your thinking.
Not because we're just here as professional storytellers, but because the stories are what are remembered
first and often last by your audience.


=== Don't Gamble On Your Stories.  Test Them Instead. ===


--- The Secret to Creating Great Stories ---

How do you create interesting, compelling, emotional stories?
Where do you get the brilliant insights, the creative impulses to do that?
I'm going to shock some of you with my response to that question.
Don't do it.
Don't even try doing it.
The best source of stories, as I mentioned a couple of videos ago for most people in most situations
is just your own life.
What actually happened to you?
Conversations you had with real customers, clients, colleagues.
Let's go deeper into that.
The problem with trying to create this interesting creative next version of Frozen or The Odyssey is
that it's really hard work and you probably aren't a professional writer and creative writer.
The other problem with that is when it's not something you've actually experienced, if you're trying
to tell that story, you now are becoming an actor.
You're trying to memorize a script.
Guess what?
That's really hard.
Meryl Streep had to go to graduate school at Yale to be as good as she is.
I don't know about you.
I don't have time to go to 2 or 3 years of graduate school to become a great actor, just to tell stories
in business presentations.
So my advice?
Take the easy way out.
Take the short cut.
Take the lazy man, the lazy woman's technique.
And that is, don't create new stories from whole cloth.
Instead, recycle your own stories based on what actually happens in your life.
Yes, you can retell other people's stories occasionally if it makes a point, but the best source of
stories for you most of the time will be simply telling people what happened to you in interesting situations
where you helped someone else solve a problem.


=== The Stagecraft of Storytelling ===


--- Trick for Getting Your Audience to Ignore All Your Mistakes and Flaws ---

Here's something else you might not have known about storytelling.
And it's going to be, I hope, a pleasant surprise for you.
If you can tell an interesting story in your presentation, people will forget and forgive any other
flaw you have.
That's right.
It sort of masks your errors.
Take, for example, the top TEDx speaker of all time, Sir Ken Robinson, gives a brilliant speech
on creativity and education.
But by most standard definitions, his body language is awful.
He stands there with his feet planted as if they'd been nailed to the floor.
Now, I don't want to seem insensitive.
Maybe he does have mobility issues, but from the so called professional public speaking perspective,
he should be moving around the stage, naturally stopping moving for transit.
He doesn't do any of that.
And guess what?
People love his speech.
They watch it.
They share it.
They tell other people to watch it.
It is by every single metric, a huge, huge success.
And the all time at this moment most popular TEDx speech ever.
So keep that in mind.
I've also noticed that when speakers tell great stories, they can have as and ums come out of their
mouth.
No one remembers.
A shirttail can hang out, a collar can go up, no one remembers or cares.
So that's the other beauty of putting great, interesting stories throughout your presentation is it
covers up any other flaws you might have.


=== Using the Full Range of Your Voice in Storytelling ===


--- Exciting New Update to this Course ---

I've got some great news.
This course has been updated to be better than ever.
I've listened to so many of you tell me that while you like the course, you don't like having to upload
your speech, your presentation, your Midi interview to YouTube, or some other video file sharing
site, and then cutting and pasting and putting that into the Udemy Q and A section.
So I've made it easier for you.
I've created a Facebook page that's just for my Udemy students.
It's just for you.
There's no sales going on, there's no promotions.
It's just about your presentations, your homework, your questions.
So click below the link you can join and there's never any charge.
You'll automatically be accepted.
And that way if you want to, you can post videos, your homework right there with one click.
You can just hold your cell phone, speak one click, and it's right there on the Udemy homework page.
Now, if for some reason you don't like Facebook and believe me, I know plenty of you and it's understandable
you don't have to join Facebook.
I'm not coercing anyone.
You can continue to post your videos right here in the Q&amp;A section of this course and there's absolutely
no problem.
So either way, the choice is yours.
But check out the link below.


=== Nobody Every Complained About a Speaker for Being Too Funny ===


--- The Difference Between Storytelling for Professionals v Theatrical Performers ---

One quick caveat, folks.
This is a course for business people, people in government, politics, business, private sector,
public sector on how they can use stories, how they can improve their storytelling abilities to help
communicate important professional messages.
This is not a course on how to have a one man show, one woman show on Broadway.
It's not about how to embrace and star in the theater for that sort of professional storytelling where
people are coming for an evening of entertainment.
Certainly a lot of the elements here are going to be used by those people.
But I want to stress, this course is primarily for professional people who want to use storytelling
skills to increase the odds of their audience remembers their important business or professional message.


=== Avoid These Common Storytelling Blunders ===


--- The Biggest Decision You Will Ever Make About Your Storytelling Future ---

OK, mọi người, đây là phần mà bạn phải đưa ra quyết định ngay bây giờ, bạn cần phải đưa ra quyết định.
Bạn sẽ kiểm tra khóa học này?
Bạn có định tham gia khóa học này và đi sâu vào không?
Hay bạn thực sự sẽ cố gắng đạt điểm A vì lý do này, thực sự tạo ra sự khác biệt có ý nghĩa trong cuộc sống của bạn và đạt
đến điểm mà bạn cảm thấy mình là một người kể chuyện tuyệt vời và khóa học này có tác động rất
lớn đến cuộc sống của bạn.
Vì vậy, bạn có ba lựa chọn nếu bạn chỉ muốn kiểm tra khóa học này.
Và tôi không phán xét bất kỳ điều nào trong số này.
Nếu bạn chỉ muốn kiểm tra khóa học này, thì chỉ cần xem video, nhấp vào video tiếp theo, đặt nó ở chế độ
tự động phát.
Tiếp tục đi, ngồi lại, thư giãn, tận hưởng nó.
Tôi hy vọng bạn thích nó.
Bây giờ có đau không?
Nó sẽ giúp nhiều?
Chắc là không.
Nhưng chúng tôi đã kiểm tra tất cả các khóa học.
Tất cả chúng ta đều ngồi ở phía sau, có thể ghé vào trong một ngày, cho dù đó là đại học hay trung học.
Tất cả chúng ta đều đã xem một vài video ở đây một cách thụ động trên nền tảng này và những video khác, và điều đó thực sự khiến chúng tôi phải xắn tay
áo và bắt tay vào công việc.
Vì vậy, nếu đó là bạn, không có cảm giác khó khăn.
Hãy tiếp tục, đến phần tiếp theo và chỉ cần ngồi lại và xem video tiếp theo.
Bây giờ, nếu bạn thực sự muốn đạt được điều gì đó từ khóa học này, tôi cần bạn tham gia ngay bây giờ.
Có bài tập về nhà đầu tiên của bạn.
Bài tập về nhà của bạn ở mức cơ bản thấp nhất.
Tôi muốn bạn nhập phần Q&amp;A trong khóa học này và bạn sẽ thấy nó ở trên ở giữa trên cùng của
phần Q&amp;A.
Tôi muốn bạn đánh máy câu chuyện của bạn.
Tại sao bạn lại tham gia khóa học này?
Bạn có một bài phát biểu không hay, một bài phát biểu nhàm chán, họ nhận được phản hồi hay đó chỉ là sự quan tâm
của bạn vì bạn muốn trở thành một diễn giả truyền động lực, tôi muốn bạn đánh máy câu chuyện đó, thì đó
có thể là một vài câu.
Nhưng điều gì đã thúc đẩy bạn tham gia khóa học này và bạn muốn gì để thoát khỏi khóa học này và bạn chỉ cần
gõ nó lên.
Vì vậy, điều đó khá đơn giản.
Bạn có thể làm điều đó trên điện thoại di động và iPad, máy tính và chỉ cần nhập nó, đưa nó vào phần Hỏi &amp; Đáp.
Đó là tất cả những gì tôi đang hỏi.
Nếu bạn làm được điều đó, bạn có thể sẽ nằm trong hai phần trăm hàng đầu của tất cả sinh viên chỉ vì thực hiện một
hoạt động đó.
Bây giờ, bạn có thực sự muốn nhận được một số tiền lớn từ khóa học này, bạn có muốn đây là một khóa học thay
đổi cuộc đời?
Bạn có muốn khóa học này cung cấp cho bạn những kỹ năng to lớn mà bạn có thể sử dụng cho mọi bài thuyết trình trong suốt quãng đời còn lại của
mình không?
Trong trường hợp đó, tôi cần bạn rút điện thoại di động.
Và ghi lại lời nói của chính bạn, kể câu chuyện của bạn, kể cho tôi và các học viên khác trong khóa học này, điều gì đã thúc đẩy
bạn tham gia khóa học này?
Bạn đã có kinh nghiệm nói xấu?
Điều gì thực sự thúc đẩy bạn muốn trở nên tốt hơn nếu bạn nhận được phản hồi tiêu cực từ bất kỳ đồng
nghiệp nào và bạn muốn rút ra được điều gì từ khóa học này?
Tôi muốn bạn chia sẻ câu chuyện của mình ngay bây giờ, được chụp trên điện thoại di động, webcam,
iPad, sau đó tải nó lên dịch vụ chia sẻ tệp video.
Bạn có thể đặt nó trên YouTube và bạn có thể đặt cài đặt này ở chế độ không công khai để phần còn lại của thế giới không nói về điều
đó.
Bạn có thể đưa nó lên Facebook.
Bạn cũng có thể đặt nó trên Google Drive nếu muốn.
Người ta nói, à T. J. , Tôi không muốn bất cứ ai khác nhìn thấy nó.
Không ai thực sự quan tâm đến câu chuyện của bạn.
Họ tập trung vào của riêng họ.
Tôi quan tâm.
Tôi sẽ xem xét nó và tôi sẽ đưa ra phản hồi cho bạn.
Nhưng nếu bạn muốn kể chuyện giỏi, bạn phải bắt đầu bằng cách đơn giản là kể một câu chuyện.
Bạn không thể đến một lớp học bơi và chỉ cần ngồi lại và quan sát.
Và khi người hướng dẫn nói với bạn, OK, bây giờ hãy xuống nước, chỉ cần đứng đó, thổi bong bóng bằng khuôn mặt của bạn
trong nước là điều đầu tiên họ làm trong lớp học bơi.
Bạn không thể chỉ nói, không, tôi tốt.
Tôi sẽ ngồi lại đây và xem hướng dẫn.
Chà, bạn sẽ không bao giờ học được cách trở thành một vận động viên bơi lội cừ khôi theo cách đó.
Bạn cũng sẽ không bao giờ học bơi.
Nếu bạn muốn trở thành một người kể chuyện tuyệt vời, bạn cần bắt đầu những bước đơn giản dành cho trẻ nhỏ.
Điều này tương đương với việc bạn bước xuống hồ bơi, đưa ngón chân vào, sau đó úp mặt xuống và thổi
bong bóng.
Vì vậy, đừng lo lắng về việc đó là một câu chuyện tuyệt vời hoặc một bài phát biểu tuyệt vời.
Tôi chỉ đơn giản là muốn bạn làm quen với việc kể một câu chuyện, thực hành trên video, xem việc đưa nó ra thế giới
để nhận được phản hồi.
Vì vậy, hãy đưa ra quyết định của bạn ngay bây giờ.
Bạn có đang kiểm tra khóa học này không?
Trong trường hợp nào?
Không cảm thấy khó khăn.
Bạn chỉ đơn giản là tham gia khóa học này và bạn muốn vượt qua một cấp độ nào đó, viết lên câu chuyện của mình hay bạn thực sự là tất cả những
gì bạn thực sự muốn học để trở thành một người kể chuyện tuyệt vời trong trường hợp đó?
Kể câu chuyện của bạn ngay bây giờ trên video và đăng liên kết ngay tại đây trong phần Hỏi và Đáp.
Tôi sẽ xem nó.
Tôi xem từng video mà từng học viên của tôi đăng lên, mọi khóa học mà tôi có.
Và tôi sẽ cung cấp cho bạn phản hồi được cá nhân hóa.
Hãy làm điều đó ngay bây giờ.


=== Advanced Tips on Storytelling ===


--- Practice Your Storytelling Homework Using the TJ Walker AI Clone ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== TED Talks - The Storytellers Disney World ===


--- Assembling the Basic Build Blocks of Your Stories ---

In this section, I really want to break down for you the specific elements you need in your stories.
Now, the good news is you don't have to have every single element, but the more you're aware of elements
that can make up great stories, the more you can use them and the richer and more thorough your stories
can be.
A couple of other notes.
There is a brief summary attached here, a little checklist for you to use when you're coming up with
your own story.
Also, another note.
I know some of you in some parts of the world have some trouble with bandwidth issues and there's buffering.
There's nothing about this particular platform that's making it buffer.
It's simply the Internet that we all experience this from time to time, wherever we are and the WI.
So to make this easier for you, I've made the first couple of hours of this course downloadable, so
if you're having trouble watching it the normal way, you can just click to download at the end of one
night and then the next morning you've got the next 20 videos or so.
I hope that's helpful.
If I can help you with anything, please let me know.


=== Frequently Asked Questions About Storytelling ===


--- The Real Reason We Are Telling These Stories Is... ---

So let's dive right into what it takes to create stories.
Now, this first element I'm going to mention to you is going to sound a little bit odd, but bear with
me.
The first person thing, conflict, emotion.
I want you to think about when it comes to creating stories.
Your message.
That's right.
Before we even worry about all these story elements, I need you to step back for a moment and ask yourself,
why are we really here?
We're not here to be professional storytellers.
We're here to communicate messages for business, for civic life for some professional reason.
So a message is a simple idea, something you can say in one sentence.
Typically one subject, one verb, one object.
But a message can be abstract.
A message isn't necessarily memorable.
It's not necessarily understandable or relatable.
It's not something visual.
This is where the story comes in.
But I do want you to realize if you just get up and start telling people stories, some might find it
interesting or entertaining, but others are like, Where's this person going here?
Why is TJ wasting my time?
So you need to start off, I believe, with a clear cut message in your mind.
Then you can figure out what story will make that message come alive.


=== TJ's Stories about Storytelling and Public Speaking ===


--- Your Characters will Come ALIVE ---

Every great story has characters.
Real characters.
You can see and taste and feel and touch them.
You need your audience to be able to visualize your character and to relate to them.
So if you talk about they they is not a character.
If you talk about customers, customers is not a character.
Name one.
When you really describe in detail a character, you're taking the whole speech, your concepts out
of the realm of the abstract, and you're allowing people to visualize it in a concrete terms.
You need to flesh out all the relevant details of your characters.
Now, sometimes the characters you, sometimes another character is going to be your boss, a client,
a colleague, a customer.
The more details, the better.
Up until a certain point, you need to give enough details so that people can visualize it and and you
need to give people a sense of why they should care about the character, why they should relate to
the character.
What does every great movie have Strong, powerful characters?
What does every great novel have Strong, powerful characters?
What does every prominent religion have?
Strong, powerful characters.
So when you're telling your story, you've got to first isolate.
Who are the characters in this story?
It's not managers.
It's not a company.
It's always specific individuals.


=== Here Is Your Chance To Learn from Some of the Best Storytellers on the Planet ===


--- Even Deeper Character Development ---

Sorry, but we got to talk a little more about characters because I see so many of my students in in-person
workshops around the country and around the world want to gloss over that.
They want to go right into the issue, right into the concept.
Give your character a name, a real name, preferably if it's a client or customer, you can change
the name so you're not violating any confidentiality, but give the person a name.
It's easier for your audience to relate to it.
Describe in detail.
Your audience needs to understand why they should relate to this character.
Why should they care about this character?
Remember, if your story doesn't have characters in it, it's not really a story.
It's just talking about stuff.


=== Secrets to Integrating Storytelling Into Your Presentations and Speeches ===


--- You Can Be the Star of Your Own Show ---

Should one of the characters in your story be you?
I have to stress, most of the time, for most people you're going to be better off if you are one of
the characters.
Frankly, it's easier for you because you're just reliving an actual experience and it takes you away
from trying to put on a show or a theatrical performance, reliving someone else's story.
You don't have to be a character in every single story, but most of the time that should be your default
position.
Now you have to have another character.
It can't be just you.
You have to describe in detail other characters, but let people know how you were feeling.
That should be easy.
Let people know what your problem was.
What were you trying to overcome?
What were the challenges that you faced?
All of this plays into really describing yourself as one of the characters in this story.
Now, you don't have to make yourself out as the hero.
You certainly don't want to always make yourself out to be wonderful and fantastic.
You can describe your flaws.
You can describe what you did wrong, too.
But don't shy away from yourself because you think that's too bragging or that's too egocentric.
Now, if you're telling a story and it's relevant and helpful to the audience and it involves you,
you're doing your audience a disservice by not telling them your story.
So make yourself a character in most of your stories.


=== Let's Get Rid of the Verbal Tics, Uh, Um, Err, Ya Know Right Now ===


--- Here is Where All the Action Takes Place ---

It's critical that you describe the setting of your story.
People in your audience need to see where you were, where the characters were.
It removes the whole concept from the abstract level to the visual level.
It's not important that your audience remember every aspect of the setting.
It is important that it slows down the onslaught of new facts, and it creates little visual hooks for
your audience.
One of the stories I'll tell you about later on in this course is the time when I was on a talk radio
show and the host pulled a gun on me.
Now, I don't want to spill the beans on that yet, but I do take time to describe the setting.
I'm in Florida.
It's a talk radio show, a talk radio studio.
I'm sitting very low in this chair.
The host is staring down at me, leaning over.
I take the time to describe the setting so you can visualize it.
This is critically important when you're telling a story.
Amateur storytellers always leave out the details.
They just describe things in the quickest, fastest, simplest way, thinking, Oh well, I'm getting
through it faster.
I'm being concise.
Yeah, you're being concise.
What good is that?
Your goal is to communicate messages and to get people to remember your stories so they can act on your
messages.
So don't skimp on the details of your setting.
It's very, very important in really making your story take hold.


=== Speaking On Video ===


--- Why Nobody Wants to Hear About Your Happy Family ---

Once upon a time, there was this family.
They were all healthy, they were all good looking, and they all got along really well.
And they lived happily ever after.
What kind of a story is that?
I'll tell you what kind.
It's the worst story ever.
You'll never see a book about that subject.
You'll never see a movie with that plot line.
Why?
Because there's no conflict.
There's no problem.
When you're telling a story, you have to talk about some conflict, some problem that was overcome.
All of you face problems from day to day.
How often do you just go to your office or go to your desk in your home office and you don't get a single
email, phone call or text all day long about any problems?
And just at the end of the day, your boss or your biggest client just send you an email saying Hope
everything was great today.
Why don't you go home early?
How often does that happen?
I'm pretty confident in thinking that never happens.
All of us deal with problems, sometimes not earth shattering, but problems, conflicts, challenges
every single day in our lives.
So what stories do is they let us talk about those problems in an interesting, compelling way.
So if you're going to tell a story, you need to have some problem for the characters.
Ideally, again, most of the time it's a problem you had or one of your clients or customers or a constituent
had and how together you face those challenges, how you face that problem, how you solved it, and
how it was resolved.


=== Eliminate Your Fear of Public Speaking ===


--- Dialogue will Bring Your Stories to Life ---

I was conducting a public speaking workshop in Thailand not that long ago, and one of the students,
Samantha, said, TJ, what's really the most important part of telling a story?
And I said, Samantha, it's the dialogue.
You've got to have dialogue.
And she said, Well, why do I need that?
Can I just be the narrator?
Can I just explain it?
And I said, Well, Samantha, you could, but guess what?
It's not as interesting.
And she said, Why?
And time out.
Do you see what I'm doing there?
I'm actually using dialogue to talk about dialogue.
What most people do is they want to just explain things.
As the narrator, if I were doing the exact same thing, but as the narrator, I would say recently
I had a workshop in Thailand.
A student of mine, Samantha, asked what was the most important part about stories?
And I exclaimed, explained that it was telling stories.
She inquired further, and I see how boring that is.
When you're the narrator.
Everything comes out more monotone, everything comes out sort of plain, your speed becomes more consistent,
your tone is more consistent.
It's frankly more boring.
When you're doing dialogue, it's more concrete.
You're actually saying what you said to the person, what you said back and and this creates more variety
with your voice.
It naturally puts in pauses.
It's easier to use the full range of your voice without even trying.
You're more likely to change your voice to be more like the other person you were talking with.
So it creates tremendous variety, makes it more interesting, puts in more pauses, and typically,
again, without even being aware of it, your body moves as your one character and the other your body
moves more.
That makes you look more confident.
It takes up a little more time, which is a good thing.
It slows down the onslaught.
I mean, how would you like to go to a movie that had no dialogue?
How would you like to read a novel?
And it's just the narrator the whole time.
It would be so much harder to be interesting and engaging.
So we all use dialogue all the time when telling stories about something interesting that happened to
us.
You can't believe what happened to me.
I'm driving down the highway and someone rolls down the window and says, Hey buddy, you've got.
That's dialogue.
Much more interesting than saying I was driving down the highway and I noticed a motorist had rolled
down the window and was telling me the following message.
Here how boring that is.
You want to spice up your story, you need dialogue.
In fact, it's virtually impossible in my experience to put in dialogue and not make a story more interesting.
So don't leave it out.


=== Public Speaking On Conference Calls (Doesn't seem like public speaking, but is) ===


--- Sharing Feelings IS Professional ---

I love PowerPoint.
Look, some of my best friends are PowerPoint, but let's face it, PowerPoint is not particularly good
at conveying emotions the way most people use it, because typically they're listing facts, bullet
points, numbers.
When you're telling a story, it is absolutely critical that you express the emotional component with
the characters and what's happening.
Are you sad?
Are you disappointed?
Are you happy?
Are you afraid?
What is it you're feeling emotionally?
This is what will connect you to the audience.
This is what will allow the audience to have some empathy for you, especially if you're saddened because
of a setback or you're scared because something horrible has happened.
Don't be afraid to convey the emotion.
This is the big problem I have with so many of my clients around the world when they're writing their
speech out or they have a speechwriter write their speech, it's much harder for most people to write
out their emotions than it is when they're simply talking to share their emotions.
We're not used to writing about our emotions.
We are used to talking about our emotions.
And this is the big problem with PowerPoint slides, with people accumulating data points, numbers,
facts.
Well, you have to have some of that.
But how do you feel about that?
Which ones get you most excited?
Which ones are the most depressing?
When you're telling a story, you've got to express your emotions.
That's what's going to hook people.
That's going to that's going to make them be on the edge of their seat for you or feel sorry for you
or feel excited for you or to empathize with you.
That's why it's crucial.
A story without emotion is really just a recitation of facts.


=== PowerPoint Presentations Don't Have To Be Awful If You Follow These Techniques ===


--- Lights! Action! (And no Camera) ---

Once you've established what the problem is, what the challenge is, what action takes place, you're
telling a story.
You've got to tell people about either what you did or what someone did, what the other character did
in your story.
Don't make them guess.
Don't make them wonder.
Describe in great detail what specific action takes place.
Action movies are often the best selling movies around the world.
Now, you're not trying to be a movie maker here, but you can borrow the movie maker's elements for
success, and that is to really describe in detail the action that takes place between your characters.


=== Drastically Reduce How Much Time You Have to Spend Preparing Your Speeches ===


--- Put the Audience On Their Edge of Their Seats ---

After you've described the problem and you've talked about the actions taken by yourself or the other
characters, remember, people need to be leaning forward thinking, what next?
Don't rush.
Don't be afraid to pause sometimes to let people fill in the gaps and try to figure out what's happening
next.
People need to have an anticipation as to what is going to happen next in order to make this a compelling
story.


=== Public Speaking While Using a Teleprompter ===


--- It's OK Not to Love Storytelling ---

I have a confession to make.
I probably shouldn't tell you this, but you're this deep into the course already.
Now, of course, you always can get a money back guarantee.
But here's the confession.
I don't really like stories that much.
I wish we didn't have to tell stories.
It'd be much faster, cleaner, simpler to just give people the facts in a presentation or take everything
on a memory stick or an SD card and just stick it into people's brains to convey all the data.
Here's the thing about stories, though I have found that there's absolutely nothing as effective at
triggering the memory process in human beings.
You can tell people what you're going to tell them.
Tell them.
Tell them what you told them doesn't really work.
You can give people handouts, put a whole bunch of text on a PowerPoint screen.
Doesn't really work if you're outside the classroom.
Stories actually work.
I test audiences all over the world, and I can tell you the only thing anyone ever remembers the stories.
They don't remember the random fact, the random concept, bullet points on a slide.
So this is why stories are so effective.
I'm being a little bit facetious earlier.
I do like a good story, but I do recognize it's not the single most efficient way in terms of time
of conveying lots of data.
That is true.
But as a speaker, outside of the academic world, it's not about how much data you convey.
It's about what actually sticks, What can you get your audience to not only understand but to remember
so they can act on it.
That's the real power of story, is it allows people to remember it because here's what's going on.
If you are doing a typical speech where you're just putting out fact after fact data point, people
may be listening to you, they may be understanding.
Some of them may even be writing it down, although that's not that common.
But you're doing all the work.
They're just sitting there passively.
The second you tell a story, you're now forcing everyone in your audience to do half the work.
They have to go into their database of videos and essentially run a little movie along side.
Because if you talk about an old grumpy man in the office who's been there for 20 years and all he ever
says is negative things.
That's going to put images in your mind.
You're going to be running a little movie reel in it.
So the speaker has now manipulated.
And I would say in an ethical way, there's nothing wrong or unethical about it.
But the speaker has manipulated the audience into doing half the work of running a little movie reel
in their brain.
This helps the understanding and the retention of the story, but also the concept.
And that's why stories are so important.
And that's why ultimately I do love stories.


=== Become a Professional Speaker And Get Paid to Speak ===


--- Surprise! ---

Great stories sometimes, but not always, but sometimes have a surprise.
It shouldn't be so predictable that you knew exactly where we're going from point A to point B to point
C to point D.
What's one of the worst things anyone would say about a new movie or a book?
Oh, it was so predictable.
Now, if you're telling a story for a business presentation, it doesn't have to be as dramatic as some
cliffhanger suspense movie.
But if you can bring in an element of surprise, it's going to make it a lot more interesting, more
engaging and more memorable.


=== Speaking On Skype Video ===


--- End with a Bang! ---

Your story needs a good ending.
Don't leave people hanging.
Don't leave them wondering.
Wait a minute.
What happened to you here?
Let people know how things concluded.
How did things end?
That's when they will be open to you.
Bringing it back to your message.
If you just go right to your message and you leave a whole bunch of loose ends, you didn't tie them
up.
You're going to confuse your audience.
They'll be thinking over here while you're over there.
So bring things to an end.
There should be a strong conclusion.


=== Speaking to Large Audiences - A Big Fear For Even Confident Speakers ===


--- Tie Your Message to Your Story ---

So you finished telling your story.
Now's a perfect time to tie it right back into your message.
Now, don't use the exact same language you did when you started it.
Don't say.
And this story proves my point.
You don't have to be ham fisted about it.
But if you can gently using different words, different language, tie in your message from the story
at the end, it helps solidify your message in the mind of your audience.
Remember, the only reason we're telling the story is to drive home a message that is of specific interest
and relevance to your audience.


=== Introducing Yourself -Speaking About Yourself Doesn't Have to Be Awkward ===


--- Extra Ingredients for A Spicy Story ---

Here are a few more elements you could put in storage.
You don't have to for every store in a business or a professional presentation.
But the more of these elements you have, the more compelling the story is.
Certainly you see these elements in great Hollywood blockbusters and in wildly popular novels.
So with your characters, one of them should be a villain.
Now, you don't have to overdo things and exaggerate if it's a client or a colleague.
If you do, be sure to change the names, but you do want to describe what makes this person a problem.
Why are they a source of conflict?
If they are doing bad things, then flesh that out.
You also need to talk about how the central characters were transformed through this journey.
Now, that doesn't happen in every single story related to what you do in your business, but if you
can talk about any transformation you had even better.
And the more you can talk about how you felt along every aspect of the way, even better.
Also, if you have some setbacks along the way, if it's just as simple as here was a problem, here's
the solution.
It's not as powerful as if you talk about a series of problems and setbacks and then the ultimate success.
So don't put so much pressure on yourself that you have to have every single one of these elements in
every story.
But when you can add these additional elements, it will make your story stronger, more believable,
more interesting and more memorable.


=== TED and TEDx Talks - You Can Deliver! ===


--- The Clean, Dirty Little Secret ---

Do you ever see someone give a fantastic Ted talk and you think, wow, what a fantastic story.
They seem so incredibly confident, comfortable, relaxed, even, and the whole world is looking at
them and they're on this big stage with this big red dot and this huge audience and millions watching.
How do they stay composed?
How can they be confident?
Well, I'm here to tell you a little secret.
This is true of almost all Ted talkers, but it's also true of any great communicator, any great storyteller
who is alive in the 21st century.
And here is the secret practice on video and practice until you like what you see.
This section is going to be devoted to something a lot of you don't like.
A lot of you want to just sit back, treat this like it's a Netflix special and have me entertain you.
And I get to tell you I'm not that entertaining, but what I'm really good at is making you a great
speaker and storyteller if you actually do what I ask.
So now we're going to get to the part of doing actual working and I'm going to teach you how to practice
your stories so that you have absolute, complete 100% confidence in front of any audience.
Doesn't matter if it's two people, 200 or 20,000 people.
You will be completely confident.
Before we do that, I need you to do a quick tech check.
Either pull up a cell phone where you can record yourself on video, get your webcam out of the closet.
If you need that, use an iPad.
Find something where you can record yourself telling your story on video.
I know you don't want to do it, but I'm here to tell you the simple act of doing this is going to put
you ahead of 99% of the world.
Most people are too lazy to do it, not because it's hard.
But because people just don't want to do it.
Oh, my gosh.
If I record myself on video, I won't like my voice.
Oh, my hair is falling out.
If I don't look at it on video, I can pretend it didn't fall out.
Well, guess what?
That doesn't work.
Whether I'm looking on video, everyone else can see my hair fell out, or at least most of them.
Oh, I don't want to see myself on video.
I look fat.
Well, you know, I put some on too.
Guess what?
Not practicing on video doesn't make me any thinner for the rest of the world.
So you got to get over all of that.
If you want to be serious at this skill, you've got to.
You don't get to be a good writer without writing and looking at your writing.
You're not going to be a good speaker or a good storyteller unless you actually look at the stories
you tell that's not on text.
That is on video.
So go ahead, get your camera ready.
The fun is just about to start.


=== Give a Winning Sales Presentation ===


--- This Is the Way To Practice Your Story For Maximum Impact ---

Okay, now we get to the real meat of the skill building of this course.
This is where, frankly, my value comes into play.
I'm sorry if this sounds obnoxious, but I just want to be up front with you.
This is what people pay me as much as $10,000 a day for when they hire me for in-person training.
What we're about to do here together and you get it at no extra cost.
Here's what it is.
It's practicing your speech, your story on video and looking at it.
But some of you think, well, that's easy.
I'll do that once.
And you look and you hate it and you never look at it again.
There is a specific technique to practicing on video.
I have found that if you don't follow this technique, practicing on video will actually make you worse.
First of all, most people never practice on video.
If they do, they don't look at their video.
If they do, they look at it once.
If they do that, all they do is latch on to what they don't like.
And they think that was helpful.
In my experience, that will actually make you worse, that will rob you of your confidence.
If all you do is practice your story on video, your whole speech on video once and you look at it,
that will reduce your confidence because you'll be fixated on what you didn't like.
Oh gosh, I said, um, ten times.
Oh, I rushed through this part of the story.
Oh, I forgot to introduce the character's name.
You'll fixate on blunders.
Mistakes.
Don't do that.
Here's what you need to do.
And this is what I do when I work with people.
You practice it.
Once you watch it the first time you look at it.
Only focus on what you like.
What do you like about your story?
What do you like about your voice?
Your hand movement.
Your body movement.
Your facial expressions.
Write a list.
Use a piece of paper.
Use a computer screen.
A cell phone.
But literally write a list of every thing you liked about your presentation.
Then look at it again and focus on the things you don't like.
Come up with a list.
Here's the tricky part.
I want you to then do your story again and focus on just one thing you didn't like and improving that.
If you notice, you stood holding your hands awkwardly the whole time.
This time.
Tell the whole story again and just focus on not having your hands held together awkwardly.
Focus on one thing at a time.
What I have found in doing this with more than 10,000 people in life, face to face trainings around
the world, is that when people focus on changing one thing that is changeable.
They succeed every time.
If you focus on something that isn't changeable, I can say, Gosh, this next time I want to look like
I don't have narrow beady eyes or I have thicker hair.
I can't fix that just by talking on video one more time.
That's a waste of time.
I need you to focus on one thing that you can, in fact, change and do that.
Look at it again.
Did you make progress?
Then pick another thing.
Keep doing it again and again and again, each time reducing just one element that you didn't like.
For most people, if they just practice a 2 or 3 minute story or speech ten, 20, 30 times, they'll
get to the point where they actually like what they see.
And here's the thing.
If you like what you see on video, you like your story, you like how you come across, you, like
how you move, you like how you sound.
At that point, confidence sinks in.
You actually can't get nervous now because nervousness comes from fear of being boring.
Well, you've already seen a video of yourself.
And it's interesting.
Nervousness comes from a fear of looking stupid or awkward If you've already seen yourself look comfortable,
confident, relaxed, it's virtually impossible to feel that you're going to look awkward.
So it solves so many problems.
It's not hard to do.
It's not expensive to do.
You don't have to hire me or pay me an extra penny.
You can do it on your own.
This is the real secret.
The Ted Talk stars have.
Most of them practiced and watched themselves on video dozens of times, some of them hundreds of times,
some of them thousands of times before they ever step foot on that stage to share their story with you.
So get ready.
In a moment, I'm going to ask you to record yourself, telling your stories, and then I want you to
keep doing it until you're happy with it.
And then I want to have you upload it, YouTube, Facebook, wherever, and post it here for us to look
at it.
So get ready for the first assignment.


=== Becoming a Motivational Speaker ===


--- Your Turn ---

Now it's your turn.
I'm going to give you a choice.
In this assignment, you get to pick one topic, and then I want you to record yourself telling a story.
You get to choose.
I'd like to know any one of the following.
What's the worst thing that ever happened to you as a kid?
As a child?
What's the best thing that ever happened to you?
You don't want to talk about your childhood.
That's okay.
Talk about your proudest accomplishment professionally as an adult or talk about the worst thing you've
ever done in your career.
Your biggest blunder, your biggest mistake.
I want you to try to incorporate as many of the story elements from the last section in this story.
And I want you to tell us at the beginning or the end or both, what do you think the point was?
What did you gain from this?
What do you think we can gain?
What lesson?
But here's the thing.
Don't just record it once and throw it up here.
That defeats the whole purpose.
I want you to build in yourself this habit of really looking at your video, figuring out what do you
like, what do you not like?
Are you missing some elements?
Go do it again.
Are you speaking too quickly?
Slow it down.
Are you forgetting to pause?
Do it again, this time with a pause.
Are your hands frozen?
Do it again and unfreeze them.
So I want you to get used to editing yourself where you're used to thinking of editing as typing at
a keyboard and clicking with a mouse.
Now, that's not what you're going to do when you're a storyteller.
You're going to edit by listening and watching yourself, figuring out what works, what doesn't work.
Don't put it up here until you're convinced it's the best you can do at your current skill level.
I don't mean you think it's perfect.
I don't mean you think it's great and shouldn't be changed at all.
I just mean I want you to go through several drafts, delete the old ones, and just upload one video
that you think represents you at the best you can possibly do.
Go ahead and do that right now.


=== For People Who HATE Public Speaking ===


--- Learn To Critique Your Own Speaking Skills More Effectively By Critiquing Others ---

Here's a quick update to this course.
One of the things I always stress, if you want to be a better speaker, presenter, communicator,
trainer is you've got to be on the lookout for better ideas, newer ideas, ways of improving what you're
doing.
Well, I try to practice what I preach.
I'm constantly looking at other trainers, other teachers, other experts on how they create a more
effective learning environment for people.
And I saw a technique the other day.
A teacher just said, comment on someone else's work in this learning forum, critique someone else's
work.
And I thought, how can I tweak that to make it meaningful to you and to make this a better course experiment?
And it occurred to me, I should just ask you to critique the speech, the video of another student
in this course, and I want you to do it in a set way.
Focus on something you like about what they do.
Reinforce their strengths.
Then and only then, focus on one area where you think they can improve.
Now you can go to the student Q&amp;A section on this platform, or you can go to the student Facebook page,
and I've linked to that below.
But this is critical for a number of reasons.
Number one, it will help all of you if you're getting more feedback from people, but it will also
help you even if no one critiques yours, because it will force you to think more critically when analyzing
someone else's speech.
This, in turn, will help you analyze your own speeches.
The human tendency is to just focus on the negative.
I want you to focus on what your colleagues are doing well, but don't hold back if you see room for
improvement.
But I want you to internalize this so that when you're watching your own rehearsals, your own speeches,
your own media interviews, you can give yourself more accurate feedback.
So please don't just pass to the next lecture.
Take a moment.
Go to the Q&amp;A section, look at where other people have posted links to their videos and give them feedback.
You can do it in the Q&amp;A section.
You can do it right on their page.
If they posted a Facebook or LinkedIn page or to the Facebook page where many of you have already posted
your videos.
Thanks.


=== How To Look Like You Never Have to Read a Script or Teleprompter ===


--- Not All Messages Are Created Equal ---

Let's not forget the real reason we're telling stories in business presentations, professional presentations,
is to communicate messages.
This section will give you a few more tips on how you can really narrow down your messages so you know
you're on the right track because great story in and of itself doesn't really help your business or
your cause.
Great story that communicates a message, but the message doesn't resonate with your audience.
That doesn't help you either.


=== Public Speaking With a Team - Team Presentations ===


--- This Is the Story That Will Motivate Your Audience to Action ---

Of course, this course is about storytelling, but it's storytelling for an objective to help you communicate
a message.
Any time you're communicating to an audience for business, professional reasons, civic reasons, it's
typically because you want the audience to do something, vote for you, invest in you, donate to you
give you money, hire you.
Your story is going to be a critically important component to that.
But you've got to take a step back before you figure out the stories and ask yourself, once you've
narrowed down in one sentence what it is you want the people you're speaking to to do now, you have
to ask yourself what possible reasons might motivate them to do that?
What messages will motivate your audience to take the actions you want?
It's not going to be 29 bullet points from Slide three on all your sales results from 89 cities over
the last six months.
That's typically not going to be the message that will push your audience over the edge to do what you
want.
So before you worry about stories.
You've got to ask yourself, what's every possible message?
That you could use to get your audience to do something you want them to do.
So at this point, I need you to transition away from some of the earlier stories where you're just
talking about some aspect of your life.
And now think about something you're trying to communicate at a professional level.
Think of a professional speech, audience message, and now motivate every possible message that you
could have to get an audience to do what you want.
Think of all the messages, brainstorm them, and figure out what the motivations are for your audience.
Write them all down.
You can have 20, 30, 40, 50.
Put them down in the Q&amp;A section right now.


=== Public Speaking On Panels ===


--- Don't Be Greedy! One Handful Only Please! ---

First question I ask any group of people I'm doing public speaking storytelling training with is think
of the best speaker you've seen in the last year, five years, ten years in your industry.
Now tell me every message point you remember from their speech and they may have already told me a few
stories they remember, but I want to know their messages.
And all the years I've asked that question, I've never had anyone remember more than five messages,
five ideas from the best speaker they've seen their entire career, sometimes their entire life.
Often people remember no messages.
Quite often it's one message.
Occasionally two, rarely 3 or 4.
And once every six months, I'll have one person who remembers five messages.
So that's why I ask all of my clients before they start off with their whole speech or their PowerPoint
or 89 different stories.
Let's truly narrow down your entire presentation to just the top five messages.
So if you did what I asked you to a moment ago, you brainstormed on every possible message you could
want.
Now I want you to put them in priority and get rid of anything that isn't in the top five.
Now, this is hard to do.
These are your babies.
Sometimes they're all good messages.
If you're writing a memo, you might put all of them in.
If it's your website, you put all of them in.
If you're giving a a memo to a client, you would put all of them in.
But that's not what a speech or a presentation is about.
So that's what I want you to do right now is narrow down and put it in the Q and A section.
What are your top five messages you want to convey in your presentation?


=== Speaking on the Elevator - Deliver a Great Elevator Pitch ===


--- Building a Strong The Frame for Your Stories ---

Before you build your dream house or your ideal office complex, typically you're going to look at an
architectural drawing, maybe an engineer's blueprint.
You don't just start hammering things up and building it up willy nilly.
You want to see the skeleton, You want to see the actual design?
Well, that's what I'd like to do now is I'd like to see the design of your presentation.
We're going to make it a thousand times more interesting and memorable with stories.
But before we do that, let's see, does it stand on its own or is it like a frame of a house that only
has one beam aimed and nothing holding it up, but it just falls over?
So what I'd like you to do now is pull out your cell phone, pull out a webcam, anything you can to
record yourself and just speak out loud your five main message points.
Now, this shouldn't take more than a minute.
I'm not asking you to put any stories in yet.
Let's just practice the bare bones of our message.
Not expecting it to even be memorable or captivating yet.
But we do want it to be interesting.
We do want it to make sense, and you need to personally feel comfortable with it.
So practice that, record it several times and then upload it, post it here so we can all look at it.


=== Public Speaking Emergencies! ===


--- Matching Your Stories to Your Audiences ---

Part of being a good storyteller involves good story selection.
You've always got to think about what works for one audience.
Will it work for another?
Is this the right story for this particular audience?
The next couple of videos will give you more tips on how to think about this selection process.


=== Speaking to Foreign Audiences ===


--- Make Sure Your Audience Can Relate to Your Story ---

Depending on your audience, you should have already thought of the exact message you're trying to convey
to this audience, but you may have numerous different stories that could make that point.
How do you pick the right one?
You've got to ask yourself, what is this audience going to relate to?
If you're talking to college kids, that's very different from retirees.
In many situations, if you're talking to kindergartners, that's different than adults in the business
world.
So really ask yourself, is this story going to resonate with this audience?
Can the audience relate to my characters?
Are they going to feel sympathy for the characters?
Are they going to get the point?
Are they even going to understand it?
Ask yourself all those questions and if it doesn't seem like a good fit, don't force the story.
There's no such thing as a story you have to tell in every single speech.
If it doesn't communicate the message you want and resonate with the audience, it doesn't work.
Any great stand up comedian will tell you there may be stories and jokes that work Tuesday night early
in the evening because it may be a sophisticated crowd and they're not drunk at all.
Very different from the crowd you speak to after 11:00 on a Saturday night when it's nothing but drunk
college kids.
It's a different audience.
Different stories will work.
In this case, different jokes will work.
But don't assume one size fits all.


=== Public Speaking in Workplace Meetings ===


--- Sure, It's OK to Tell Other People's Stories ---

You also have to ask yourself, are there going to be some stories that are not personal stories, but
that might resonate more with your audience?
That's okay.
Now, you've heard me mention it's generally better to share personal stories.
It's easier to convey emotion.
It's easier for you to say.
But there are going to be times for certain audiences where other people's stories are going to be more
powerful.
Any of you who've ever been to an Anthony Robbins Weekend seminar may remember the story he tells about
Sylvester Stallone, and the story involves Sylvester Stallone's rise from poverty, his early acting
days having to sell his dog to survive, doing everything he could, turning down money offers to to
make his big blockbuster Rocky, because he wanted to star in it.
He talks about all the turmoil in a very compelling way, but it's not a personal story of Anthony Robbins.
He's just retelling a third party story because he thinks it would resonate with so many people in his
audience.
And he's right.
It works.
Another example is the famed author and pundit pod podcast guest and podcast host Malcolm Gladwell.
He is widely popular on the professional public speaking circuit, gets paid an astronomical fee, and
he tells stories, but they're typically not personal stories.
He tells stories of people.
He is investigated, researched, written about.
In some cases, he's telling stories of David and Goliath from thousands of years ago, but he's doing
it with a storyteller's craft.
And you'll see more about him in the section of great speakers.
And you can watch some of his video as well.
So you don't have to have personal stories.
Ask yourself what is going to resonate the most with your audience.
That should determine what story it is, whether it's a personal or a third party story.


=== Delivering an Informational Talk ===


--- You Don't Always Have to Have a Happy Ending ---

There are many types of stories or negative stories.
Positive stories.
Let's focus on negative ones.
Sometimes bad things happen to you, to others, to people.
And maybe there is no positive happy ending.
It's okay to tell stories like this, but typically you don't want to end on that.
You want more positive stories than negative stories because you don't want people ending, deflated
and defeated.
So later on in this course, I share with you a lot of my own stories about helping people communicate
more effectively and give presentations.
And I talk about a story where I was fired for saying the wrong thing to the news media.
And I do use that story in presentations, talks, trainings, but it's certainly not what I want to
end with.
That's kind of a downer.
So use negative stories, but use them sparingly because once you bring the mood of the audience down,
it can be hard to bring them back up.


=== Extra Video Section ===


--- End On a Positive Note ---

Positive stories.
Everyone loves a heartwarming story.
So when you can talk about something good that can happen, a challenge that was overcome and everybody
was better off, or you did, in fact, live happily ever after.
That's great.
The real challenge, though, is can you do it in a way that doesn't sound trite, cliche, boring,
same old, same old when you can deliver a positive story, but with a slightly different twist.
That's when it's powerful.
That's when it's going to be most effective.
So the power of positive is very strong, but put a little creativity in it, a little difference,
and it's going to be even stronger.
Positive stories should be most of what makes up most presentations most of the time.
Not always.
If you're just giving presentations to alarm people about why they need to take a certain political
action or there'll be catastrophe, whether it's environmental or politically, you may have more negative
stories, but in many cases, business, professional life, you do need to lean more heavily towards
positive stories for maximum impact.


=== Course Update ===


--- A Turtle and a Rabbit? ---

Another type of story.
Fables, stories involving animals to make a point.
Every child has heard about the story of the tortoise and the hare and the moral principle involved.
You can also use parables that have strong moral lessons.
Here's the thing, though.
If you're going to be a successful communicator, you've got to be extraordinarily careful about using
a story someone else has said.
If someone's heard it before, there's an immediate discount in the ears of your audience.
I would highly recommend that you stay away from fables, parables, other people's stories, the starfish
story, ones that people have heard millions of times, because you're frankly not going to get a lot
of credit for telling a story other people have heard.
And at some level, they're judging you negatively for not being creative.
Of course, there are exceptions if you're talking to schoolchildren, but if you're talking in the
business world, the professional world.
My advice, with rare exceptions and there's always exceptions.
The fewer parables, the fewer the frog was boiling in the pot but didn't jump out.
The fewer fables, the better.
And the more you stick to something real.
It doesn't seem like you're trying as hard when you just share your own experience.
It's not as showy about.
Now let me tell you a story.
And because it's less showy, expectations don't go up and it's easier to score points with your audience,
to resonate with them and have them like you like the presentation and remember your message because
it doesn't sound like something they heard exactly the same a year or two ago.


=== Conclusion to The Complete Storytelling Course for Speaking & Presenting ===


--- Why We Tell Stories ---

This section has more thoughts.
Reflections on Storytelling.
Why You should Tell Stories.
It's not as nuts and bolts as some of the other sections.
If you want to skip this, you can go to the next section if you like.
But I do think the more you immerse yourself in this whole milieu of storytelling and why it's important,
the significance, the history of it, the easier it is for you to make just as your default position.
Telling stories.
So with that in mind, let's hop into this section.


=== New Extra Course - Video Conferencing Zoom Skype WebEX Tech Presentation Skills ===


--- The Ultimate Test for Your Story ---

This course is designed to be long, comprehensive, thorough.
There are a lot of little nuances here when it comes to being a great storyteller.
But keep one thing in mind.
There's really only one ironclad rule.
Did your story work on the audience you were speaking to?
You can ignore half most.
Almost all the rules I give you in other storytelling experts give you as long as it works with your
audience.
That's the ultimate test.
So don't get so hung up on, Oh my gosh, did I spend enough time on the setting or was there quite
enough words of dialogue?
Don't obsess over every little piece of this puzzle.
Instead, focus on the big picture.
Is this actually resonating with your audience?
If they understand your story, if they're leaning forward, if you see them nodding, if you see their
eyes get bigger occasionally and most of all, when they come up to you afterwards and tell you about
the story, how it made an impact on them, that's when you know the story worked.
So focus on the big picture.


=== Storytelling in the Age of AI and Automation ===


--- Winning the Credibility Factor ---

Is your story believable?
If your audience thinks you're just making up stuff to entertain them or to trick them, it's not going
to be as effective.
Now, sometimes you can tell something true and it sounds crazy.
It's not initially believable.
You can let people know you wouldn't believe you too if you were in their shoes, but try to make your
stories believable, sound as believable as possible.
Otherwise people are going to be skeptical.
They'll be throwing up roadblocks and they won't buy in to what you're talking about.
They don't buy in.
They're not going to really take away the message.
So always test yourself and your stories and ask yourself, is this really coming across as believable?


=== The Future of Personalized and Authentic Communication ===


--- Don't Forget, You Are a Natural Storyteller ---

This course is about teaching you how to be a good storyteller and a better storyteller.
But don't forget, all human beings are storytellers.
That's how we communicate.
If you bump into a friend on Monday morning at the office or at a cafe and say, How was your weekend?
They typically don't respond the way someone gives a PowerPoint speech.
They don't say, Well, at 6 a.m. Saturday morning, I woke up at 602.
I went to the bathroom.
At 603.
I turned the coffee pot on at 605.
That's not how people actually talk.
Typically someone might say.
I had the worst.
Saturday afternoon, I got a flat tire on the way to the mall.
This guy stopped.
I thought he was there to help and he wanted me to pay him $50.
I said absolutely.
We tell stories.
That's what human beings do.
And the challenge for most people is not that they have to learn a whole new way of telling stories.
It's that that they have to learn to stop turning off the story button.
We tell ourselves, I'm not giving a serious speech or a serious presentation, so I have to take all
my good stories, throw them in the trash can, because they've got to go through all the data.
That's not what great speakers do.
You've got to be more selective on the data you're going to present, and you've got to use a story
for each one.
And the same way your friend isn't going to tell you about every second of the day for the weekend.
When you say, How was your weekend?
When some business prospect or colleague says, Tell me what's happened.
Interesting in your business or in your division for the last quarter.
They don't expect to be told sales data every single hour for the last quarter.
You've got to focus on the most interesting story for your audience.


=== Ethical and Inclusive Leadership Through Storytelling ===


--- The Real Danger Most Speakers Face ---

The single biggest problem most speakers, most presenters have is not that they get flop sweat or that
they say too many ums or uhs or that they forget something or they can't answer a question.
Those could all be problems.
But far and away, the biggest problem most people have, they're so uninteresting, nobody remembers
anything they said.
They just bored their audience to death.
They may have looked professional, smooth.
The slides were all expertly done.
The logo was in the right place.
But if you went around the room and asked people, What do you remember from this last speaker, the
answer would be nothing.
That's the far and away the biggest problem most people have and the adult business professional world.
The single biggest.
Fix it to that stories.
Now I know at some level you've already bought into this idea of stories or you wouldn't be in this
course, but I just want to give you yet another reason to change your thought process when you're creating
presentations and to put more of an emphasis and a primacy to these stories because they saw the number
one problem, which is nobody remembers anything in your speech, put interesting, compelling, memorable
stories in You've solved that problem.


=== Hybrid Work and Digital Collaboration in Storytelling ===


--- This Is Where Your Best Stories Have Been Hiding ---

The biggest misconception most people have about stories that they tell themselves.
I don't have any stories to tell.
I see this all the time when I'm working with groups of people on their public speaking skills, their
storytelling skills.
Someone says, I don't have any stories.
This is all the data.
I just have the slides and I say, okay, fine.
We take a coffee break, we sit down and I'll just say, Hey, so how'd you get into this line of work?
Every single time they have an interesting story and that story always has a setting and characters
and problems and emotions and solutions and dialogue.
So you've heard me say it before.
I'm going to say it again.
Stop telling yourself you don't have stories.
Your life is nothing but a series of stories which you've got to do is not become a brilliant creator
of stories, but frankly a better editor and figure out what are the 99% of the stories in your life
that aren't of interest to other people?
How do you put a spotlight, a focus on the 1% of stories that are going to be interesting to other
people and have a lesson or a message that will be helpful to them?
That's the real key.


=== The Power of Customer-Centric Storytelling ===


--- Yes, There Was Communication Invented Before Texting ---

How did people communicate before texting?
How do people communicate before social media?
How do they communicate before typing?
How about before PowerPoint?
What about before books or TV or radio?
Let's keep rewinding back further, further, further.
More than 10,000 years, people communicated by telling stories by the fire in the cave.
Storytelling is primitive, and yet it's wildly effective.
It still resonates.
These days, it doesn't matter how many special effects you have, how many hundreds of millions of
dollars you have for special effects on movies, it's still about telling a story, which is something
cave people did more than 10,000 years ago.
So it's great to be high tech.
I use technology.
We've connected through the Internet right here.
But the basic primitive urge to communicate by telling a story is hard wired into us as human beings.
Let's not stifle it.
Let's not bottle it up.
Let's put a spotlight on it.
And that way we can continue to communicate for another 10,000 years and beyond.


=== Cross-Cultural Storytelling for Global Influence ===


--- What You Don't Know About Bad Stories ---

Here's something you're not going to hear from most instructors on storytelling.
I'm going to be careful about this.
Don't tell anyone I told you this.
But here's the thing.
Even bad stories work most of the time.
Why is that?
Why would you intentionally do something bad?
I'm not asking you to start off trying to tell a bad story, but what I mean by that is most presentations
are so boring, so devoid of anything interesting.
They don't have any stories that if you put in a story to flesh out a point, even if it's not well
told, even if it's missing some details, even if it doesn't have the dialogue.
And I'd love for you to have dialogue.
It's still going to be so much better than the person who spoke before you and the person who spoke
after you in most situations.
So I say this to motivate you to try.
Don't wait until you have the perfect story.
Don't write me, write me, write and treat this like it's a perfect piece of art that's got to be polished
for 20 years.
If you have some story elements that relate to the message you're trying to convey to your audience,
go ahead, put it out there.
Something beats nothing.
Most presentations have nothing.
They're just boring data dumps.
So a story, any story, even a story that's not told very well is going to be so much better than nothing.
So keep that in mind.
Don't wait till you have the perfect story.
Put a story out and we can always make it better the next time.


=== Advanced Public Speaking and Presentation Mastery ===


--- Storytelling Your Way to Power ---

In prehistoric times, the leader of a tribe was typically the best storyteller.
This was before the days of movies and TV shows and YouTube.
So in order to captivate the whole tribe, you had to be good at telling stories.
Well, guess what?
Our time's really any different these days.
Wasn't Steve Jobs the leader of a tribe of people who cared passionately about the finest personal electronic
gadgets to help them with their life, whether it's an iPad, iPhone, iPod.
If you want to be a leader of a tribe, it's not necessarily 30 people who live within 50ft of you.
It is your community.
The best way to be ahead of that community worldwide is by being the best storyteller.
One reason storytellers are so compelling is they essentially force the audience to run little movie
reels along as you speak.
Storytellers are engaging throughout most people when they give presentations, they get a boring beginning,
maybe a boring ending, sometimes something interesting throughout a little bit.
But the interesting parts are far outweighed by the boring parts.
Compelling storytellers are interesting throughout.
That's why you should strive to be the best storyteller in your tribe.


=== Agile Leadership and Change Management Through Storytelling ===


--- Testing Your Stories and Keeping Only the Winners ---

Now we get to the least enjoyable, the least glamorous.
But in many ways, the most important part of becoming a great storyteller.
And that is testing.
Now, some of you, if you've ever been to a comedy club, have seen people testing their material for
the most part.
All great comedians test every single joke they have numerous times.
If you go to any comedy club for very long, you'll see some comedians actually put their phone or recording
device.
They want to record not how they set it necessarily, although that's a part of it.
They are recording the audience's reaction.
So if they try out 100 new jokes and three get laughs, they may throw away 97 of those jokes.
That didn't work.
They keep those three.
They use those three the next night.
Jerry Seinfeld does this.
All the best comedians do it, even if they're not recording.
They're making mental notes.
What is resonating with the audience and what isn't?
Now, as a storyteller in a business presentation situation, you're not necessarily out to get laughs,
but you are trying to figure out, does this work?
Does this resonate in this section?
I'm going to give you some more tips on how you can really test your presentation.


=== Sustainability and Conscious Business Storytelling ===


--- You Have to Like Your Own Stories ---

The first big test we've already talked about some briefly, and that is, does it pass your test?
Can you watch a video of yourself giving a presentation and like it?
Do you like your story or does it sound cheap or cheesy or stupid?
If so, get rid of it.
So that's the first big test, is you've got to practice your story again and again until you personally
like it, until you find it interesting, until you like every aspect of your style and substance.
So that's the first really big test for any story for your presentation.


=== Emotional Intelligence and Storytelling for Influence ===


--- The Free Digital Focus Group for Your Stories ---

The next big test for your story after you've recorded that video and you like it, what I'd recommend
is you email it to colleagues.
Anyone who is similar to the audience you'll ultimately be speaking to and sharing this story with.
I would email it to colleagues, maybe even post it on Facebook, post it on YouTube, share it with
people.
Certainly you're in this class.
You can post videos right here.
I'll give you feedback.
But here's the thing.
You don't want to ask people, What do you think they're going to tell you?
Oh, you're great, you're wonderful, you're fantastic, completely worthless information.
You want to ask people, what do you remember?
That's the next big question.
What do you remember?
If they just said, well, you know, you were compelling and comfortable and confident, that means
they didn't remember anything.
People can lie to you and tell you they think they were great even if they didn't.
But they can't lie to you and tell you they remember the actual content of your presentation or your
story.
If they didn't remember it, it's not possible for them to do that.
So that's the next thing you want to do when you're testing is ask people what do they remember?
Now what you want to figure out is not only do they remember your story, but do they remember the exact
message you were hoping that they would take away from this story?
Sometimes people will remember your message or they'll remember your story, but they won't remember
your message.
Well, that's no good.
We don't want them to simply remember our story.
We want them to remember the message that was embedded in that story.
So that's the next test when you're emailing it to friends, colleagues, business associates, perhaps
even family members.
Are they remembering the story and the message?
That's the next big test.


=== Social Media Storytelling for Business Success ===


--- Testing On Those Who Really Matter ---

Okay.
You've tested your own story on yourself.
It passed.
You've tested on others, colleagues, friends, family members.
It passed.
Now we're going to try it on the actual audience, a real audience.
So you'll give your presentation.
You'll have the stories embedded in your presentation for all your key points, and then your presentation
is done.
Now, if you're speaking to more than five people or so, typically someone will come up and say, Oh,
good job today, good presentation most of the time.
What do we do?
Thanks.
Thanks a lot.
Guess what?
You just threw away?
Valuable focus group research.
My recommendation and what I do personally is say thanks.
Thanks a lot.
Tell me.
What do you remember from the presentation?
How would you describe this to a colleague who wasn't here today?
This is gold.
The information that comes out now, if you told a story and you told it in an interesting, compelling
way, typically that's what they'll remember first.
So ask and really listen.
What do you remember?
What do you take away?
What stood out?
Any examples, case study stories and then listen to what they say.
If they tell you the story and they throw back in your face the very same elements, you know that that
story was successful as far as making an impression on your audience.
And that's a huge success right there, because so much of what people say leaves no impression.
Then you want to follow up and ask, what did you take away from that story?
What was the message of that?
How did that help you really listen?
Because sometimes.
They'll get exactly what you want, but other times they may take away a completely different message.
That was not what you intended.
Guess what?
It's never the audience's fault.
It's your fault if they don't remember your message or if they remember the wrong message.
So you've got to really use this.
It may be that you have to tweak your story or change it or emphasize certain things so that they really
get the message or you got to nail down certain points, re-emphasize them.
Sometimes there's simply something in your story that is too confusing or too inflammatory, too scary,
and it just turns the audience in a completely different way.
They may think they like your story, but it's confusing them and it's not getting the message you care
about stuck in their brains.
In that case, you may have to completely throw away the story and use others.
So that's how you test stories, just like the best comedians in the world often test.
Dozens of times, sometimes hundreds of sometimes thousands of times before they're so confident that
they use a joke in a TV special or on a high profile TV interview.
Great storytellers will test, refine stories again and again and again in different speeches so that
each time they make it just a tiny little bit better for the next audience.


=== Crisis Communication and Storytelling Under Pressure ===


--- Your Mouth AND Your Body Have a Story to Tell ---

When you're telling a story, it's not just the words.
If it were just about words, you could email people your story.
You're speaking to them.
So you need to act.
I don't mean phony and becoming a Broadway star, but you need to act out your words.
The stagecraft is incredibly important.
This whole section is about how to use your body and every tool you have visually to help bring the
story alive.
So there's going to be a lot of elements here, every aspect of what you do with your face, hands,
body.
But remember, the big picture is you want to take these images from your brain about this story and
paint a picture so your audience sees it.
To help them is for you to act it out.
So if you're talking about a great distance you traveled, don't just say the words.
Walk across the stage slowly.
See if you're introducing a character who is great, big and giant, then get on your tiptoes.
Become great big.
If you're talking about someone else who's shy and meek and small, make yourself small.
Don't be afraid to use your whole body.
You don't have to be doing gymnastics.
You don't have to be tap dancing for people on the stage.
But you could certainly walk around and relive reenact certain things when it comes to telling your
story.
If you're on the phone with someone, then get on the phone with someone.
If someone is in your face yelling, then you need to step forward as if you're getting in someone's
face.
These are all things we do when we're just telling a story with a friend or family member, and we're
excited.
And yet when we're giving a so-called serious public speech presentation, we tend to shrink up.
We tighten up, we stand behind a lectern because that's what you're supposed to know.
You're not great speakers.
Professional speakers will use every inch of the stage you can too, because all it is, is walking
and talking.
Something you've been doing since you were three years old.
Stay tuned.
A lot of good stuff in this section.


=== The Future of Sales Storytelling in a Digital World ===


--- Great Body Language for Your Presentations ---

So how do you get better control over your body language when you're giving a speech or a presentation?
And I'll define this as you're talking to more than a couple of people.
It's something on an agenda.
It's not somebody just asking you a question and you talk.
You're giving a speech, a presentation, not necessarily PowerPoint.
We'll cover that in the next lecture.
But you're giving a speech.
You have some set of core content.
What are the body language tips you need to follow?
Well, the biggest one, as I've talked about in the last couple of videos, is you're never ready to
give a presentation to anyone in the workplace unless you've actually practiced it on video and looked
at it and gotten it to the point where you like how you're coming across.
If you do that, it solves virtually all problems.
But let me give you even more specifics.
The biggest problem for so many people in the workplace, especially if they're not really seasoned,
experienced presenters, is they think of a presentation or a speech as an opportunity to dump a tremendous
amount of data.
So what happens is they're now reading all sorts of papers.
Their head is down, they're reading quickly, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Monotone sets in, no eye contact, no movement.
And it creates this negative chain reaction.
Everything shuts down with your body language.
You're not looking at people, you're not pausing, you're not gesturing, you're not moving.
Nothing's happening except words coming out of your mouth in an unnatural speech pattern unnaturally
quickly, way too fast, too monotone.
And it just puts people to sleep.
Or these days, everyone has a great plan B If you're in a business meeting and you're giving a boring
presentation, it's called let me check my email and see where am I going to go to dinner tonight?
What are my pals up to?
Uh oh.
My spouse wants me to pick up.
Don't give people an opportunity to do that.
If you're ignoring them, they're going to ignore you.
Most people now, and this is clearly not a body language class for dating and singles people, but
you've probably heard you're on a date.
You don't ignore your date and start playing with your cell phone if you expect your date to think very
highly of you, you can't ignore your date across a dinner table and expect them to give you attention.
Well, it's no different when you're giving a speech or a presentation.
I know it feels different, but if you ignore your audience, they're going to ignore you.
So you need to be looking at your audience most of the time.
Well, TJ, How do I remember what to say?
Quick tip.
The easiest way to remember what to say is not to stay up late.
Memorizing.
That's hard.
That's difficult.
Most cases, it's not going to be practical to bring a teleprompter everywhere.
And if you read bullet points off of a PowerPoint, that is the kiss of death.
The easiest way to be comfortable when you're presenting is to condense everything to a single sheet,
a single cheat sheet.
Very large font.
Now, my vision isn't particularly good, but I've made the font large enough that I don't have to put
my glasses on.
It's just 2 or 3 words for each line.
Therefore, I don't have to read and find the right paragraph and figure out where to start and end.
I just go right to the beginning.
So this is actually an outline for a presentation I give that's an hour long because it's a single sheet
of paper.
I don't have to turn pages because it's a single sheet of paper and large font.
I don't have to stop each time.
Hold on, bend down, put my glasses on.
All of those distracting things.
I can just glance down occasionally.
This also gives me the ability.
And here's the real secret sauce when it comes to body language, when you present because it's all
in a single sheet and I know what's coming, I can actually walk around the room.
Do you have to walk around the room when you're giving a presentation?
No, but all great professional speakers do that.
If you do it, it's going to make you look so much more relaxed, comfortable and confident because
nervous speakers never do that.
They grab the lectern for dear life.
Let me stand behind this.
Okay.
Someone wants to throw rotten fruit at me in case I'm horrible.
Don't stand behind a lectern.
The person behind you might.
The person who speaks after you might.
You don't have to speak behind a lectern.
Now, you don't have to be running all around the room and be putting on a big show, but just even
walking a couple of feet to your left and a couple of feet to your right will make you look so much
more relaxed, comfortable and confident.
Here's an advanced tip.
Now it's three times the technology budget, but wildly effective.
What I do with my own notes, I have three identical sheets of paper with my notes.
So instead of $0.02 for a sheet of paper, it's $0.06 for three sheets of paper.
And I'll have these scattered throughout the room.
One on the lectern, one on a table 20ft away, one even in the back of the room.
So if I'm speaking for an hour, I can be walking around the whole time and it's as if I'm just having
a conversation with the audience.
This way it takes all the pressure off of my memory because I know I've got a road map.
When I'm freed up from worrying about how to remember, I don't have to scrunch up my face and think,
Oh, what's next?
What's next?
Let me worry about it.
I can just be in the moment.
And I can look at people in the audience.
Eye contact is a very powerful thing when you're presenting.
There's basically three types of eye contact when you're giving a speech or a presentation, and it
is a little different than if it's just one on one or you're in a meeting with two people.
The bottom 1% of speakers, they're staring at the floor or they're just reading their bullet points
or they're looking at their computer screen or they're just staring at a script.
They're completely ignoring you.
A colleague of yours could stand up on the table, light his or her hair on fire, and you'd never notice
because you're just staring at your text.
That's what the bottom 1% of speakers do.
Then there's the next sort of 98.9% of speakers.
They're doing some version of the windshield wiper, especially if they're talking more than ten people.
They're looking at the whole crowd, the whole time.
So when you're in the audience, you never feel like that speaker, that colleague, that presenter
is really talking to you.
And because of that, you feel anonymous.
It's almost like you're in a dark room.
Well, what do you like to do when you're in a dark room and something isn't that exciting?
You check, email, text, Facebook.
You don't want that to happen.
You don't want people to think you're ignoring them.
Therefore, it's okay for them to ignore you.
So the real secret with body language when it comes to your eyes when you're presenting is you want
to lock eyes with one person for a full thought, just a couple of sentences, then go to another person
in the room, lock eyes with that person for a full thought.
Then give it to another person.
It needs to be random.
It can't be boom, boom, boom, boom.
That makes you seem like a robot.
So let me clarify because people mishear this.
They say, Oh, so you're just saying look at one friendly face the whole time on the front row?
No, that would be weird.
If I'm staring at one person for five minutes, that's going to weird that person out.
Plus everyone else will feel ignored.
What I'm suggesting is it's proportional.
Normally, if your eyes are scanning, you're only looking at someone for a 10th of a second or a fifth
of a second because your eyes are moving the whole time.
So if you actually stop and say a sentence or 2 to 1 person that's only 4 or 5 seconds, but proportionally,
it's so much bigger than the eye scan, that person's going to feel like, Wow, she really spoke to
me.
He spoke to me.
It forces them to pay attention.
It feels like you care about them and it's going to make them want to care more about you.
That's what we're trying to do in any form of business communication.
We're trying to get people to pay attention, have the sense that we care about them and make them want
to work with us.
Now, the beauty of this method is in so many business situations, you're asked to speak for five ten
minutes and there's fewer than 20 people in the room.
You can give every single person in the room individualized eye contact.
Because it's only five seconds per person.
So that's an awful lot of people you can connect with every single minute.
Now, this technique even works if you're asked to speak at a large business conference.
Let's say it's an annual convention or an international convention.
You're on a stage at a big convention center.
Bright lights on you and it's dark out there.
You can't even see people.
Believe it or not, this technique still works.
You just pick one spot 20ft out.
You hold that for a full thought.
Then you go to another part of the audience and you look out there and 20 people in that area will all
feel like, Wow, she really spoke to me.
These people.
Wow.
He really spoke to me.
So it still works.
And to everyone else, you'll look more confident because so many speakers, even if their hand gestures
are good, even if their voice is good when they're in front of a lot of people, they have this kind
of lost look.
They're looking at this mass sea of humanity, and so many elements of their body language may be just
right.
Their hands, their body, their movement, their voice.
But if their eyes just look like they're in total amazement and lost and nervous, that's going to undercut
their message.
So those are the basics of how you can really improve your body language when it comes to giving presentations
and speeches.
I'll give you more tips on the specifics of PowerPoint and other speaking situations in following lectures.


=== AI-Generated Content vs. Human Storytelling: What Works? ===


--- Never Let These Two Classic Body Language Blunders Slow You Down ---

There are a couple of big picture body language issues I do need to point out.
Now you're going to hear these and think, well, that's not very profound.
I paid for this.
It may be too obvious to some, but I do want to repeat it.
For a lot of people, the body language that gets them in trouble in the workplace is before they ever
say anything.
It's when they walk into a room.
Two big problems many people encounter.
Number one, if they're uncomfortable at all, they tighten their body and they hunch over.
Does this look like someone you really want to work with?
Go talk to ask how their day is collaborate so you don't have to be in the military and have perfect
posture as if a book could balance on your head.
But beware the sort of rounded shoulder hunched over.
It looks like you want to be in your own little world.
I would recommend that you practice your posture and make sure you're upright and just ask people.
Ask a family member, Ask a friend.
I have this problem.
Sometimes I can get round shoulder.
So I've actually used an app before, a little device that pins on right here and it vibrates.
If I don't stand up straight, I'm not necessarily advocating that.
I'm certainly not selling anything within this course.
But the main thing is you need to do whatever it takes to make sure your posture is good.
The second big thing, what's on your face to many people, if they're uncomfortable in a workplace
space, it's a new workplace, different colleagues, complete blank look on their face and it looks
like a frown.
That's just a turnoff.
Now, there are different cultural beliefs.
Those of you watching in France will say, Well, you silly Americans, you smile all the time.
You are going to have to filter this in through the lens of what works in your particular culture.
And I realize there are students from more than 180 countries in Udemy and in my own students as well
throughout my courses.
So you're going to have to look at some of this through the lens of your own country.
But in many, many cultures, just having a blank look or a frown, it's going to look like you're not
happy to be there.
So am I recommending you walk around with a big smiley face?
Hi, everybody.
I'm in a cult.
No, but a little bit of a smile can't hurt.
Certainly when you see someone and you walk past them in the hall, a little bit of a smile.
If a smile is pasted on the whole time, then it looks fake.
It looks phony, it looks contrived.
But when you're looking at someone and then you do smile a little, it makes you seem human.
It makes you seem likable.
So this isn't what you paid for in this course.
I know this is so obvious, but it does bear repeating the two big factors that get a lot of people
in trouble with their body language, bad posture, and just a blank look or a frown on the face.


=== The Psychology of Storytelling for Persuasion and Influence ===


--- Big Picture - Make Everyone You Work With Feel Comfortable Working With You ---

Before we dig too deep in the nitty gritty of body language tips in the workplace, we need to step
back for a minute and just look at the big picture.
What are we trying to do here?
The goal is not to have body language that makes people think we are powerful.
The goal is not to have body language that turns every head when you walk into a room is super charismatic.
That's a bunch of hokum.
Here's our goal.
We want to come across comfortable, confident, relaxed in our own skin to make other people we work
with comfortable with us so they can talk to us, want to deal with us, want to work with us, want
to collaborate with us.
That's the ultimate goal.
We want our body language to suggest to people, Hey, I'm not focused on me, Look at me.
I'm nervous, I'm scared or I'm wonderful, I'm great.
We want our body language to suggest.
I'm here to focus on helping you.
How can I help you?
Whether I'm working with you one on one, sitting down in a conference room or an office or standing
up, giving a presentation, you want your body language to suggest that you're not even thinking about
yourself.
You're focused on working with your colleagues, building something better, helping clients, helping
prospects, helping customers.
If people are looking at you and in their gut, they feel like this person is really trying to help
me.
That's all that really matters.
They'll forgive you if you scratch your face or you fidget for a second.
Or are you saying, um.
Or, uh.
Or your voice goes up a minute or they'll forgive all of that if they feel like you are comfortable
in your own skin, that you're not nervous and that you're here focused on them.
On the other hand, you can be perfect with every aspect of your posture and not touching your face.
Distractingly not playing with your ring finger.
All that could be perfect, but if people you're working with people you're speaking to feel like you're
thinking about me, me, me, how do I look?
How am I coming across?
They're not going to like you and they're not going to want to work with you.
So with everything we do, please keep that in the back of your mind at all times.


=== Video Storytelling and the Rise of Interactive Media ===


--- Your Nerves Will Never Show Again ---

Let's look at the number one problem when it comes to body language for most people in the workplace.
The good news, it's not just because people are stupid.
It's not because they're sexist pigs.
It's not because they're rude people.
The number one source of bad body language in the workplace is just being nervous, being uncomfortable.
And what happens when people are nervous is we become like little bunny rabbits.
We kind of freeze, we stiffen up.
So when we're giving a talk, a presentation, meeting with someone, talking one on one with a client
prospect, delivering a PowerPoint, doing any form of communication with colleagues, customers, clients,
prospects, when we're nervous, we stop doing the things we do, when we're comfortable, when we're
talking, our hands freeze, our body freezes, our face goes blank, and we just tense up.
This gives other people an uncomfortable feeling in their gut about us if they're feeling uncomfortable
about us.
That's working against us.
It makes them less likely to want to hire us, to buy from us, to work with us, to collaborate with
us.
So the good news is, for so many of you, it's not about learning some huge, huge new skill sets and
memorizing 1001 do's and don'ts.
It really comes down to doing a few things to put you back into a state of being comfortable so that
you can project comfort with the people who are around you.
If you do that, it solves the vast majority of problems.
Not every problem.
I mean, you could be too comfortable in your office and you're putting your feet up on your boss's
desk and your boss is wildly insulted.
Are you doing that at a conference room?
So I don't want to suggest that that's the only problem.
But for most people, most of the time it's being nervous, being uncomfortable and tensing the body
up.
So we are going to spend a fair amount of time because we solve this problem, we solve almost all the
other problems.


=== Data Storytelling for Business Leaders and Decision Makers ===


--- You'll Never Fall for These Body Language Myths Again ---

I'm a big believer in teaching by positive example, focusing on what you should do, not what you shouldn't
do.
But I do want to address what I consider to be the three big myths when it comes to body language in
the workplace and body language in general.
The number one myth out there, and I hear this every single week when I'm conducting public speaking
media training workshops with clients, individuals, groups all over the world.
Someone will bring this up.
And the issue is, Hans, what do you do with your hands when you're speaking, presenting in a briefing,
talking on Skype, video or Zoom?
The big myth out there is that somehow it's distracting to move your hands and it's more professional
to hold your hands down.
Nothing could be further from the truth.
Now I monitor audiences all over the world.
I test audiences, and what I have found, regardless of the culture, regardless of the industry,
is that people respond much more favorably to an individual in a business situation.
Speaking, presenting, talking when that person moves his or her hands.
The second you freeze your hands, you freeze your arm's body, your vocal cords and you are going to
sound more nervous, stiff, monotone, and you're going to look stiff.
So huge, huge myth out there.
Now, in theory, is it possible to be wildly gesticulating and distracting?
It's possible.
All I can tell you is that for 30 years, I've trained 10,000 people all over the globe from six continents.
I've never yet had anyone wildly moving their hands too much.
But every week, sometimes every day in a week, I have people stand up to give a presentation and they
do this or this or grab a lectern.
Their hands are frozen.
They look stiff, uncomfortable, nervous.
So I want you to get rid of this notion that somehow you're not supposed to move your hands.
Have I ever seen someone move hands too much?
Yeah.
Will Ferrell in a movie where he's being interviewed after winning a race car and he's like, I don't
know what to do with my.
I mean, it's funny if you're a comedian, but it's not a problem that affects people in real life.
The second big myth out there that there are certain poses you can take to make yourself more comfortable,
confident, commanding.
The most pernicious of all is this one floating around on the Internet.
I won't talk about the proponent by name, but she says if you just stand with your arms and your hands
on your hips like Wonder Woman, you'll be filled with so much confidence it'll help you in any presentation.
This is complete nonsense in my professional view, because if you don't have anything interesting to
say and then when you get in front of people for that speech or talk or presentation or job interview,
you then tense your body up again.
Standing like this for a minute isn't going to do anything.
So get rid of that notion and the solution we'll talk about later in this course.
You got to practice speaking, presenting, talking, asking questions on video.
It's not as popular as standing like Wonder Woman, but it really does solve the problem now.
The number one myth out there when it comes to body language.
Drum roll.
I guess the number one myth is that somehow 93% of all communication is your body language, your voice,
what you do with your body.
Only 7%.
Your words, your content.
This is a myth that's been going around for decades.
It has been widely debunked.
It all stems from a study at UCLA by a professor, Mehrabian, and he was studying something very different.
His results have been -- by so called body language experts, public speaking experts ever since.
Purports to show that how you move your body, what you do with your voice is infinitely more important
than what you say, and that your actual content, your actual words are only 7%.
Widely debunked if you hear any so called public speaking expert talk about this, you know they are
a complete fool.
I'm going to put the citation below.
And you can also Google this and you can see what I'm talking about.
Here's the ultimate test if you doubt me.
If really everything is body language and your voice and content is only 7%, that means you could give
a sales presentation to someone who doesn't speak your language.
They would still understand 93% of what you're talking about.
That's obviously patently absurd.
They wouldn't understand anything you're talking about if you're speaking to them in a language they
don't understand.
Now, I obviously think body language is important or I wouldn't be teaching this course, but I want
you to really keep things in perspective.
It's not more important than your actual ideas and your substance.
You have to have both in any form of communication.
It's never just about style.
It's never just about substance.
It's always both.
For example, let's say you're desperate to hire some new employee in your organization, and I write
you a beautiful cover letter.
Everything you want to see, everything you like, everything.
Beautiful paper, great punctuation.
But you look at my resume and I have no relevant work experience in your industry and I've never held
a job for more than two weeks.
Are you likely to hire me?
Probably not.
In that case, I'll have great style, but no substance.
On the flip side, if I have a beautiful resume, everything you're looking for in your industry, but
I send you a cover letter filled with misspellings, typos, poor grammar, no space between the words.
What are you going to do?
Chances are you're going to take my resume and my cover letter and throw it in the trash.
In this case, my style will overwhelm my substance.
So I believe in all forms of communication, writing, speaking, talking.
It's never this false dichotomy of style versus substance.
You have to have both.
This course is going to help you with the body language side of things, but realize you've got to have
great substance if you really want to communicate.
And ultimately that's what is going to have a huge impact on your career.
Body language can help, but without the substance, without good messages, none of this will matter.


=== The Role of Humor in Business Storytelling ===


--- Here Is Exactly What to Do With Your Hands ---

I talked a little bit about hands in an earlier lecture.
I want to go more in depth here because it really is such a huge, huge, in some cases dominant part
of your body language.
And there's a lot of information out there about hands.
There's a lot of complexity, a lot of misinformation.
I want to cut through that and make life easy for you.
Here's a little secret I'll share with you when I'm doing in-person workshops, public speaking workshops
and seminars.
Typically, I tape someone right in the beginning of the morning several times.
I'll ask them tough questions, ask them to stand up and speak.
Typically, they get nervous.
They tense up, they hold their hands awkwardly, They freeze their hands, or they're at least much
lower than usual.
And then.
Without turning the camera off.
I'll turn the light off.
I'll sit back.
I'll drop the microphone on the floor and I'll say, Tell me, how did that feel?
And they'll say, Oh, I felt awful.
I didn't like that.
I'm no good on camera.
So we'll then watch the video, the formal part, and I'll ask them what they think.
They'll typically say.
Well, TJ, I look a little scared, nervous, uncomfortable.
And then I just ask them, How would you like to see somebody better than you, more comfortable than
you, more confident?
They think I'm going to show them video of some world class leader Winston Churchill.
Ronald Reagan.
No.
Instead I just show them video of themselves where their hands are moving and their hands are expressive.
Here's the dirty little secret most body language experts won't tell you.
You don't need to learn how to do new things with your hands.
What you need to do is to simply move your hands the way you do when you're relaxed and comfortable.
And talking to one friend about your favorite sporting event or music event or something you like doing,
because most people move their hands naturally when they're in a work situation, especially if it's
a talk, a briefing, a presentation, a PowerPoint, a Skype video, we tense up.
And once you start moving your hands, you stop moving your arms.
You tense your arms.
You tense your shoulders, you tense your vocal cords.
Next thing you know, you get this sort of tone of voice.
See how my voice is more monotone now?
My head's not moving.
My face isn't moving.
My body isn't moving.
It sets off a negative chain reaction.
So my recommendation is you want to move your hands again?
You heard me say it before.
Sorry if this seems repetitive.
Of course, it's theoretically possible someone could be doing this and being distracting in real life.
I find it doesn't really happen.
So try to move your hands, because the second you move your hands, if you are in a work situation
and you're a little bit out of your comfort zone, you'll at least look more comfortable to your audience
because you'll be doing the things that comfortable, confident people do when they speak.
And this is also a problem when you're standing.
Sometimes people hold their hands in front of them fig leaf position or they put their hands behind
them like they've been arrested and handcuffed.
When you're speaking, you can't go wrong with moving your hands.
Now, there's a lot of bad information out there.
People who say, well, never, ever let someone see your point.
So you have to, like, do this.
Well, this looks really weird.
Angela merkel, the chancellor of Germany, does this weird thing where she's holding her hands like
this, which looks ridiculous.
Nobody in real life is comfortable and relaxed ever held their hands like this.
You don't go up to a friend at the workplace cafeteria the day after the Olympics and say, wow, did
you see that great downhill racing last night?
No, that's not how people move their hands.
So you don't need to worry about doing this, doing this.
I think it's baloney, this idea that your fingers can never point in a direction.
Yeah.
You probably don't want to be going like this.
Maybe someone could see that as threatening.
But again, in my experience, that's not what most people do.
There are other body language experts who will tell you, well, you've got to narrow it and it has
to be in this box.
I find that's over complicated for most people and most situations.
What you're after is natural movement.
If you do that, people will feel your relaxed and comfortable.
You'll feel more relaxed and comfortable.
Your voice will be richer, more conversational, have greater range.
Everything will be in sync and you won't look like you're acting and being phony and trying to have
powerful body language.
Because by the way, if you're going to be good at body language, you shouldn't ever look like you're
trying to do something to have good body language.
It should come across much more natural, non noticeable.
But please keep in mind the hands, the hands really are key and you don't have to learn anything new.
Just do what you normally do with your hands.


=== Advanced Presentation Skills for Global Audiences ===


--- The Composed, Confident Video Star ---

One big change in the workplace these days is that more and more of us are being asked to present talk
work on video 20, 30, 40 years ago, that wasn't the case.
Only the CEOs were asked to go on 60 Minutes or go on some big primetime TV show or be a part of the
official welcoming training video these days.
Pretty much anybody who could be the first day on your job and asked to speak on video even before you
get the job, your interview could take place on Skype video.
So I want to give you some tips here on how you can communicate on video.
Doesn't matter if it's a job interview on Skype video, a meeting on Zoome creating a Facebook live
or YouTube for most people.
When they see a camera in front of them, the natural instinct is to.
Tense up, so I want to give you the basics of how you can look comfortable, confident, relaxed and
use your body effectively.
Now, you've already heard me talk about hands.
You want to move your hands when you speak.
Most people, when they're staring at a video for Skype or for Zoom are doing Google Hangouts.
Their whole body just freezes.
So get your hands moving.
But let's step back.
Even before that, when the video cameras on you, the natural reaction is to have kind of a frozen
blank look, big, big problem.
You want to move your head, you want to move your face.
It's going to seem awkward staring at a little piece of machinery to move your head and move your face.
But if you don't do that, you're going to look like you are part of a hostage video and someone has
a gun to you.
So you really want to make sure you're moving your head and moving your face.
Next, you want to move your body.
I'm not doing a big dance here, but I'm moving my body.
When I'm saying certain words, I lean forward, I lean back.
And that's going to make you come across more comfortable, confident and relaxed.
And as we talked about, you're going to get tired of me saying this.
Move your hands.
When you move your hands, your body moves.
You're more likely to move your face.
So these are some of the basics of how you can look comfortable on camera.
Now, something that's very noticeable are your eyes.
If you're doing any kind of on camera communication, there's going to be a tendency to want to look
up.
I'm glad you asked me that.
When you look up on camera, it looks like you're just making up stuff.
You're just basing it's not a good look.
So I recommend that you don't look up if you had to look away, look down for a second.
The other problem that people have is they're looking to the side.
Hi.
Yes.
I'm really honest and trustworthy.
I like to tell you about my offshore hedge fund where you should send all your kids college money and
your retirement funds.
See that?
I'm literally shifty.
I don't do that.
Just look at the camera.
If you occasionally want to look down, that's fine.
But most of the time you should look at the camera.
You'll come across more believable, more likable.
Now, here's the part a lot of you really want to hear.
You see yourself on camera and you think, oh, I don't look like that.
I look a lot worse.
I look heavier.
I look fatter.
Hey, we all have some level of vanity.
So let me give you some basics.
Any time you're on a video camera, if you sit back, relax.
How do I look, you see about three channels now, you might not have as much extra weight as I do and
you might not have double chins, but if you sit back relaxed in a chair, you will look heavier and
fatter and the camera is going to latch on to whatever it's closer to your body.
In some cases, your stomach.
So sitting back relaxed is the least flattering.
Look, any time you're on a video camera, the next worst thing is someone with so-called perfect posture.
You see people like this on major news networks, financial networks.
Hi, my name is TJ Walker.
Media training worldwide.
I help people look comfortable, relaxed and confident on TV.
How does that come across?
Horrible, right, I look stiff, nervous and uncomfortable, so you can't have perfect posture, need
to hold yourself up high, lean forward about 15 degrees into the camera.
Now you see a stronger jawline.
Now you see less of my body.
My body's not as prominent.
If the camera were further back, you wouldn't notice my stomach as much either.
So holding yourself high, leaning forward any time you're speaking on camera, whether it's network
TV, we'll talk about TV in the next lecture or just a simple webcam, an iPad and iPhone.
Anytime there's a camera, this is the angle you want.
Also, as we talked about earlier, you want the camera a couple of inches above your eyes.
So many Skype, video interviews, meetings, Zun, they look awful in part because it's just too low.
And the solution is very simple.
We get a stack of books and you put your camera, your iPad, even your cell phone on that stack of
books so that it's a couple of inches above your eye.
Now, speaking of the posture again from the side, this doesn't look particularly natural.
You can see it just looks a little weird, but.
For the person who's watching you, it doesn't look weird at all, you'll simply look more comfortable,
confident and relaxed.
Now, if you're doing any kind of Facebook live Google Hangouts and you're standing and it's showing
more of your body, what I'd recommend, again, move your hands.
A lot of people will move their hands when they're seated.
They stand up.
They suddenly feel naked.
They do the whole fig leaf thing in front of them.
And it looks like they have to go to the bathroom or they hold their hands behind them as if they've
been handcuffed and are off to prison.
You want to have your hands down by your side as soon as you start talking, move your hands.
The other problem a lot of people have for anything that is standing as they may have their feet shoulder
width apart.
And before you know it, they're doing this.
Hi.
I'd like to tell you about all the good things we do at media training worldwide with our in-person
workshops.
Unfortunately, you're now getting seasick.
It's distracting.
So don't stand with your feet shoulder width apart.
Easy solution.
Have one foot forward, one foot back.
That's what I'm doing now and I really can't rock sideways.
I'd fall over if I'm a little nervous and I'm rocking, I'll rock front and back.
It's much less noticeable on camera because of the lack of depth perception.
So these are basics of how you will look, your best sound, your best come across comfortable, confident,
relaxed any time you're in front of a camera.
Now, this is not an audio video production course, but we are concerned about how you sound and the
video.
One of the big problems with Skype video other conferencing is the audio is so bad.
If you're going to be doing conference calls, Skype, video Zoome meetings for about fifteen dollars,
you can buy a microphone.
This is what's called a lot of lavalier microphone.
It clips on my shirt, can flip on your jacket, a dress, a tie.
You plug it into your computer, you could plug it into your iPhone or any other cell phone.
It makes the audio quality so much better.
People can hear you better and see you better.
Then you're really going to come across much more effective, whether you're conducting a meeting with
sales reps around the world or clients or prospects from two different continents if they're seeing
you.
But the audio sounds fuzzy.
It's a little odd now in some cases, just using the earbuds that come with a lot of cell phones, the
microphone can be better if you want to really take it up a notch.
Something I use for Skype video interview is very simple and I just keep it right next to me at all
times.
That way I can just pick it up even if it falls on the floor.
And it's an ear piece, just like you say, professional broadcasters.
I put it in my ear, I clip it to the back of my shirt or back in my jacket if I'm wearing a suit this
way, you don't see all the the the wires and you're not seeing a big headset.
So it creates a cleaner look and a cleaner appearance.
If you're just listening to the person you're speaking to on a speaker, you can create a feedback loop,
create echoes and be distorting.
This only cost twenty dollars on Amazon.
I'm not here selling anything and there's no links or affiliates or anything like that.
But you can search on Amazon any electronic store of your choice.
But it's a little thing like that that can make your audio come across much, much better.
So those are the basics of how you'll come across with better body language.
You'll sound better and look better any time you're in the workplace having to communicate in front
of a video camera.


=== Future Trends in Storytelling and Business Communication ===


--- Never Spotlight Your Blunders and Mistakes Again ---

The biggest moment for a lot of people when it comes to their body language in the workplace is when
they screw up.
Now we're all human beings.
We all make mistakes, and it's natural to be embarrassed.
The problem is, if you're giving any sort of speech, presentation, talk a briefing, and the people
don't really know you that much and you're going through serious business matters, it's that look of
that awkwardness, that embarrassment.
It becomes the most emotional moment of the whole talk, the whole presentation the whole time when
they're experiencing you.
It becomes the most memorable part.
That's a problem.
Now, it may generate sympathy, but that's not the main emotion we want to be getting out of our coworkers,
colleagues and clients.
We want them focused on how we can help them, work with them, be an asset to them.
So I want to give you some tips.
For example, in the last video, I messed up, I screwed up.
You may remember or you may not.
I went to grab my ear piece to make a point.
I couldn't find it.
I looked around.
It was on the floor.
I bent down and I picked it up.
So I made a mistake.
Hey, I'm human.
But here's what I didn't do.
I didn't go.
Oh, my gosh.
Oh, Where is it?
Oh, I'm so sorry.
I'm.
I didn't stop and spotlight it.
In my experience, it's never the mistakes people make in business presentations, meetings, talks,
briefings.
It's their reaction to their mistakes.
That's what gets people into trouble.
And unfortunately, it can even destroy careers.
Those of you who follow United States politics may remember there was a time a couple of political seasons
ago when the governor of Texas was running for president, and he at the time was the front runner.
He was asked a question, What government agencies would he cut?
And he said, I will cut the following four agencies.
I will cut the Department of Energy, the Department of Commerce, the Environmental Protection Agency,
and the, uh uh.
Um.
Oh, uh.
Oops.
That completely solidified everyone's impression of him.
It destroyed his political campaign.
He went from number one to dead last.
And I would submit to you it wasn't because he forgot something.
It was his body language.
It was his voice.
It was the sense of, Oh, I feel so awful, so embarrassed.
You caught me.
I feel like a fool.
It was such a powerful moment that it became the most memorable thing anyone could remember about him.
And that was the big problem.
Now contrast.
Four years later, there was another politician from Texas running a senator.
He said, If I am elected president, I will eliminate the following four government agencies.
And he listed three of them, and he repeated one.
But he didn't act embarrassed.
He didn't act bothered.
He just kept on going.
And he said it like he said, the best answer ever.
No one even noticed.
He only mentioned three instead of four.
Until a day or two later.
By that time, no one had formed any negative impressions based on that answer.
It did not hurt his campaign at all.
And he ended up coming in not first place, but he did get second place.
So that campaign performance didn't hurt him at all.
So the real lesson here is not that we have to be on all the time and be perfect.
It's certainly not that you can never make a mistake.
The body language lesson, though, is if you're giving a speech, a presentation, a talk, and it's
not people you work with every single day and you're really close with in the workplace, if you make
a mistake, if you forget something.
Don't beat yourself up in front of the public.
Don't act embarrassed.
Don't start apologizing.
Just do what I did.
You need a couple of seconds.
Pick up what you need.
Keep going.
Most of the time no one will remember if they do remember, it's not the dominant memory.
So remember, it's not your mistakes that get you into trouble.
It's typically your body language, your vocal change, reactions to your mistake, showing embarrassment.
Learn to control that and your mistakes really won't cut against you.


=== Your Assignment: Write down goals to improve your life and achieve your goals!! ===


--- You are Now Ready for Prime Time TV ---

For most people in the workplace, the most stressful situation for your body language is when you're
asked to speak on television.
Now, we talked earlier about video, whether it's just on your cell phone, Skype video, and that
can be stressful.
But if you're in a big TV studio, bright lights, camera operators coming around, perhaps a prominent
host grilling you with questions.
For most people, that's the most nerve wracking.
And these days, it's not just the CEO.
There are so many cable niche networks, networks that are focused on subsections of subsections of
industries.
You could be a 24 year old product manager at a company or a junior product manager at a trade convention
and be asked to speak on behalf of your whole company on some niche TV network Could be an online TV
network, so you need to be prepared for this.
You know, say, Oh, no, I'm not an on camera person.
If you want to be successful in the workplace today, you've got to think of yourself as someone who
can communicate at any time, anywhere about what you do and what your organization does.
So all the same rules from before video apply, you want to hold yourself high, lean forward about
15 degrees.
You want to make sure you move your hands, your body, your face.
You don't want to be frozen at all.
You don't want your eyes to go back and forth.
You don't want a blank look on your face.
You need a little bit of a smile.
But there are additional challenges when you're on TV.
So, for example, if a reporter or talk show host is interviewing you, where do you look?
Hi, Jay.
And I'm really glad you asked me that question.
Yes, I'm very trustworthy and honest.
See how bad that looks on my eyes?
Shift back and forth.
Here's the rule of thumb.
If there's a human being talking to you and you see the person, the reporter, the host, just look
at the person, ignore the camera.
You cannot go wrong ignoring the camera.
If there's a person there.
Occasionally you may be asked to do an interview through satellite interview or through Skype and you
have an earpiece and you can't see the person asking you questions.
In that case, then just look at the camera.
But you're likely to be more nervous than just doing a little Skype meeting in your office.
So you're even more tempted to freeze, have your eyes bug out.
Don't forget to blink.
Don't forget to move head, face, body and you'll be okay.
Other things that are different about TV you can get away with no makeup if it's a little handheld Skype
video or FaceTime with a colleague or two.
But when you're on TV, people could be looking at you on a giant screen.
So even if your skin is normally flawless and mine isn't, imperfections will show up, be magnified,
your face will look oily, greasy, even if it's not.
So my recommendation, even if the TV station or network doesn't provide it, put some powder on yourself.
All you really need is a mosaic powder that doesn't change the color of your skin.
You don't want to make yourself look like you're getting a tan and you don't want to whiten yourself
either.
You want it to not change the color of your skin.
I have powder all over my face now because I want to reduce the shine.
In case any of you are looking at this on bigger screens, if you're watching on a cell phone, it probably
doesn't matter.
So that's one big difference.
When you're in a studio, sometimes it's more intimidating.
There are a lot of people around.
People can be talking.
You've got to.
Zone out.
Ignore all that and just focus on the person asking you the questions.
Look at that person.
Look at the camera.
You might be put in a chair that swivels.
Don't swivel.
You want to move.
But just from the waist up, not from the waist down, it'll be highly distracting and you'll look nervous
and uncomfortable.
So those are the basics of how your body language will come across your best anytime you're on television.

--- The Number 1 Tip for Curing Body Language Problems Is... ---

I want to give you my number one tip, my number one solution to solving all of your body language problems
and actually making you great.
This is absolutely the number one tip for really helping people be at their most effective when it comes
to their body language.
This is also the tip that is the absolute least popular tip with all of my students.
So I'm warning you right now, it's absolutely works.
It's extraordinarily effective and people hate doing it.
Is it hard to do like getting up at 4:00 in the morning and jogging ten miles to get in shape for the
Olympics?
No.
Is it physically tough, like learning how to make a hole in one on the golf course or dunk a basketball?
No.
Is it physically painful?
No, it's just people don't like to do it.
Here's the number one tip.
If you really want to see how your body language is and how it could or could not be working and how
to improve it and really know that you're coming across your best, there's one thing you need to do.
You need to pull your cell phone out.
Pull up the option for recording video and you need to practice your speech, your presentation, your
talk, your job interview points, even raising your hand to ask a question at an annual meeting where
you're a little nervous because there's 200 employees from around the world.
You need to practice on video.
Look at it.
Figure out what do you like?
What do you not like?
And then here's the part you're going to dislike even more.
You have to redo it.
Again and again and again until you're convinced it's the best you can do.
And you actually like your body language, you think you look relaxed, comfortable, confident.
You like how your voice sounds.
You don't see anything distracting.
It might take you two takes and each one is a minute.
You do it, review it, do another one, review it.
That's four minutes.
So don't tell me you don't have time to do this.
There's always time for anything that's important.
This is frankly the biggest difference between the final results for any of my students who work with
me in person for a day versus online when I'm working with someone in person or a group, whether it's
a CEO, a president, a prime minister, a Nobel Peace Prize winner, or someone just like you, they
don't have a choice.
I get them on camera a dozen times.
And we review it throughout the day so they don't leave until they love how their body language is coming
across.
And it can be done in a day.
Even someone starting off at the base level also working on every aspect of a complicated speech or
media interview.
You can do it at home, in a cab office, in an Uber, just practice looking at it again.
People don't like to do it.
I understand.
But there's simply no other way.
You're going to know how your body language is coming across.
People spend so much time writing and rewriting and rearranging the bullet points on a PowerPoint,
and then they get up to give a speech and they're stiff and frozen and boring and blah, blah, blah,
blah.
And they look scared.
And the only thing anyone remembers is they look scared.
That person didn't practice on video because this video camera and it could be an iPad, a webcam,
any kind of camera, a camcorder, the video is the only thing that's really going to tell you how your
body comes across.
Now, you shouldn't practice in a mirror because if you're practicing what you want to say in a mirror,
you're thinking, oh, is my hairline getting worse?
Am I getting more jowls?
Everyone has certain weaknesses.
I don't recommend you practice in a mirror.
I recommend you practice.
Have it recorded then.
Look at it.
And I know some of you are like quickly trying to push the next lesson.
Next lesson.
How do I get away from this?
I don't want to hear this.
At some level.
This is kind of like one of the diet health gurus saying, look, if you're obese, we can talk about
pills and we can talk about this and all sorts of things, but at some level, you're going to have
to reduce calorie consumption in a day if you really want to get to a normal weight at some level,
if you really want to come across your best and to know exactly how you look, how you sound, you need
to video record yourself ideally before every kind of presentation, talk briefing, job interview,
Skype, interview, media interview you do in the workplace.

--- The Real Way to Improve Your Body Language Confidence ---

I've been pretty easy on you so far.
I haven't asked you to do a lot of homework.
I haven't asked you to take a lot of tests.
That's by design.
Because I'm building up for something right now.
I am going to ask you to do something.
Unfortunately, I already know most of you won't do it because this is something I ask in all of my
communication classes.
Less than 1% of my students do it.
It's not hard.
It's not physically demanding.
It's not time consuming, and it costs nothing.
What I'm going to ask you to do is to practice saying something that you have to talk about in your
workplace.
Recorded on video, as we talked about before.
Keep doing it.
Keep refining it.
Keep looking at it.
Figure out what you like, what you don't like.
Then once you've come up with one that you think represents you at your best, the best you can do,
put it on YouTube, Facebook somewhere.
You can put it on a private or unlisted setting and then post the link in the discussion section right
here.
I promise you I'll look at it.
I'll give you feedback on your body language.
I can tell you right now, if you are reading a script, it's going to be obvious to everyone and that
puts people to sleep and makes you seem robotic and canned.
But I'm going to look at your video.
I'm going to give you my honest feedback now in order to help you the most and to save time for everyone.
Don't just do it once and put it up there.
You have a lifetime of experience of looking at bad, awkward, nervous people in school, in business,
in the work world.
You already know what you don't like.
What gives you sort of an unhappy feeling, uncomfortable feeling in the pit of your stomach.
So if you see that, change it, keep doing it.
And these can be sure these could be 20s long if you want, but then post it.
And I'll take a look, critique it.
Your fellow students will take a look and critique it.
We're all in this together.
No one's interested in making fun of you because everyone's worried about their own stuff, their own
issues.
Okay, So don't use that as an excuse.
I'll really appreciate it if you do.
If you don't, I'll still love you.
But I won't feel as satisfied that I really helped you if you don't post your video.

--- Confident Briefing to Colleagues and Others ---

The next scenario, you're giving a briefing to someone in the office or your organization and you're
seated.
Now, this can seem easier.
You're not standing in front of a whole bunch of people.
You're not as self-conscious about your body and your hands, but there are still things you need to
watch out for.
For starters, don't get too comfortable.
There's the tendency to think, Well, it's just seated and you're leaning.
You're slumped over, maybe looking at your screen.
My recommendation, I want you to be comfortable, but I would still hold myself high, lean forward
and not have my hands touching the table when talking.
If you're listening to someone, by all means have your hands on the table.
But when you're talking gesture, you'll come across more comfortable, more confident and relaxed.
Too many people put their hands down.
Once you put your hands down, you slump.
Everything's all wrinkled, crumpled looking.
Nobody looks is good that way.
Plus, there's less energy in your voice because you're not moving your hands and your body.
The other thing to realize is it's still your briefing, your presentation.
You may want someone to look at a computer screen or maybe you're projecting it or maybe it's a handout,
but you should be looking at the person or persons.
You're briefing all the other material that's for them.
It's not for you.
And it may seem like a lower threshold, less scarier thing.
You should still practice on video before doing it.

--- Keynote Speeches Will Showcase Your Calm and Confidence ---

Keynote speeches in front of large audiences.
That's the scariest thing for most people in the workplace.
It may never happen to you.
It may happen once every five years, maybe once a year at a big annual convention for everyone in your
industry.
But you're up on a stage, you may have 100, 500, 1000, 5000 people looking at you.
And for most people it is scary.
So you've got the nerves coming, even if you're normally a confident speaker.
The problem, of course, with your nerves is you're tempted to change yourself, to calm your nerves.
So you're tempted to do things like read a speech, read bullet points, use a teleprompter.
For the most part, all of those ideas are horrible ideas.
You need to still practice the fundamentals.
Have a basic cheat sheet with your notes that you can glance down and look at.
Here's the thing people don't believe me when I tell them this.
It's actually easier to speak in front of a really large audience than a small audience and form a good
impression on the audience, because at some level they're looking at you up on stage and they're impressed
already that you're willing to get up there because most people's biggest fear is speaking and speaking
in front of a large audience.
So the fact that you're up there, they give you credit, they give you points.
Here's the other thing.
As we talked about earlier, if you simply walk around the stage when you speak.
People will be like, Wow, did you see that?
She was so confident.
He was so confident.
He just walked around and talked.
I could never do that.
Well, here's the thing.
Any three year old child can walk and talk.
I don't know of any other professional activity where you just doing something that a three year old
can do.
People are impressed by it.
If you're just eating food or laughing, no one's going to give you credit for that.
But walking and talking in front of a large group seems really hard.
It seems scary.
So people perceive it as a much harder task and they give you a lot more credit for it.
So practice walking.
I won't belabor the point, but even more so in a keynote speech.
You need to practice on video until you're comfortable with it.
Something else that can help.
Practicing in the actual room where you're giving the speech.
Because if you practice it in your own small office, for example, or home and you're really comfortable,
and now you get to the convention center and it's this gigantic, cavernous place and you can't even
see the back of the room.
It's going to feel scary if you're up there in front of people the whole time.
Something else that will make you more relaxed get there early, walk around the whole edge of the room,
get comfortable, actually touch the chairs as you walk around.
I know it sounds silly and kind of new age y, but it does actually work.
It makes you more comfortable and because you're more comfortable, you'll be able to move again and
sound natural.
And that's what's key here.
So even if you never, ever take my advice on practicing on video, make an exception for the big keynote
speeches because nothing can cement your career.
In a more powerful, positive way than a great keynote speech.
Think of what Steve Jobs presentations did for his career, his business, because they were so powerful.
On the other hand, if you make a really awful presentation, people remember that too.
The stakes are higher, but the rewards are much higher too.

--- Use a TelePrompTer Like a Network News Anchor ---

If it hasn't happened to you already, it's going to happen soon.
I'm seeing it everywhere in the workplace and that is the rise of the use of teleprompters.
There are teleprompter apps you can have on your cell phone, on your iPad, and there may be times
when this is effective.
For those of you who don't know what it is, you type in your script and then it scrolls across and
you can look at it.
You can have it through the lens teleprompter.
You can have one that's right next to the camera.
When you're seeing a State of the Union address.
In most countries, the president or the prime minister is using one.
Newscasters use them.
So it allows someone to read while looking up at people or the camera.
So sounds great.
Why wouldn't you use this all the time?
It sounds wonderful.
You don't have to remember what to say.
You don't have to look at No.
Why wouldn't everyone use a teleprompter?
It saves a lot of time, right?
It's not that simple, folks.
My recommendation is you should not use a teleprompter most of the time in most situations, if you
are a president of a country or a prime minister or a finance minister and any single word out of your
mouth is analyzed, slice dice, people are looking at it.
It could cause scandal, economic turmoil.
There is a good reason to use a teleprompter.
But let's face it, for most of us in most businesses, even CEOs of big companies, the biggest danger
in life is not that we have one word taken out of context and something gets wrong.
The biggest problem is nobody remembers anything we say.
So let's focus on the real challenge.
So my recommendation from a pure body language standpoint, don't use a teleprompter because it's a
lot harder to do.
You're trying to do something you don't normally do when you're reading your whole life.
You're used to reading like this.
You've got a cell phone, an iPad here, a newspaper, a book you're not used to reading with a whole
lot of people staring at you, reading text.
It's 5 or 10 or 20ft away.
It's a very unnatural thing.
What happens when people feel unnatural?
All of a sudden they feel like this.
And I am now reading my teleprompter and wow, this is great because I do not have to memorize it.
How awful that is.
Okay.
So I've done my due diligence, my proper procedure there, my boilerplate.
Now, let me tell you what you need to know if you're going to actually use the teleprompter from a
body language standpoint.
It all comes down to five tips.
Tip number one, you need to vary your speed, sometimes faster, sometimes slower when you're speaking.
Most people, they get on the teleprompter and they speak at that same speed and it sounds like a robot.
So you have to vary the speed, sometimes faster, sometimes slower.
Next, big tip, sometimes louder, sometimes softer, because that's how people talk in real life when
they are engaged and having an interesting conversation.
Most people, when they are reading a teleprompter, everything comes out the same volume and that's
why they sound robotic and the audience feels empowered to ignore them and start checking their email.
So that's the second big thing.
You've got to change the volume.
There's got to be variation there.
Next thing you've got to do is you've got to move your body.
Even though you're using the teleprompter, your hands have to move, your body has to move, especially
your head, because most people get that head lock.
And when nothing's moving but your eyes, they become very, very noticeable.
And everyone's like, Oh, look at him using the teleprompter.
If you're moving your head and your hands and your body, the eye movement is a part of many, many
movements and it's not detectable.
Most of the time.
So that's the third big tip, is you need to move your body.
The fourth big tip.
You've got to pause from time to time real human beings in real conversation.
When they're finishing a thought, they'll stop and they're finishing one idea to transition to another.
They'll stop.
Maybe you walk.
You don't need five minute pauses or even five second pauses, but a couple of seconds here and there.
That will make you sound real.
Conversational and not canned and not like you're eating again.
For most people who are not professional news anchors, they never stop.
They go from the next sentence to the next sentence.
Why is that?
Because they're following the speed of the teleprompter.
You're not there to follow the teleprompter.
The teleprompter is there to follow you.
So that's the problem with all these nice, cheap, inexpensive and free apps.
You pick one speed and it forces you to go the same speed.
That's yet another reason not to do not use a teleprompter if you can't vary the speed, either someone
else doing it for you or you adjusting it with your hand or a phone or their even foot pedals or foot
pedals.
The fifth thing you really need to do if you want to use a teleprompter effectively, is it takes even
more rehearsal time than a regular speech with notes, because it is harder you're going to trip up.
It's very easy to trip on a word and then you think, Oh, darn, I tripped on a word and you're going
to want to go back and you can't do it.
So it's even more important than ever to rehearse and to rehearse on video and to not give the teleprompter
speech in real life until you've seen a version of yourself doing it on video that you like.
And that's how you use good body language for a teleprompter.
Okay.
By the way, did you see about 30s ago?
I really stumbled on a word.
I'm trying to practice what I preach here with you.
And that is, if you make a mistake, don't act in horror.
Don't act appalled.
Don't get all flushed and blush and all that.
Just correct yourself and keep going.
Because, by the way, I'm doing this course live to tape.
I'm not doing ten, 20 tapes because when you're in the real work world and you're speaking in a meeting,
you don't get to do 20 takes.
So I want to show you this, warts and all.
I am creating this course for you.
It's not live in the sense that people are watching me this second, but I'm doing it once, recording
it.
My editing consists of turning on and turning off with a remote control, and I need you to get to the
point where you're just as comfortable with that thought process when you're speaking, because that's
part of what makes people scared about speaking in the workplace and talking to people is you can't
sit there and type and edit and refine and put fancy graphics on top and fancy music on top to redo
something.
You've got to just put it out there and get it the best you can the first time.

--- Making Sure Your Clothes Are Communicating Your Positive Story ---

A part of your body language in the workplace is what you're wearing, how your hair is styled.
Now, there's no one perfect way.
It varies from industry to industry.
If you are a modern artist, you don't want to dress in a conservative, boring suit and tie and conservative
clothing.
If you are working in a very conservative, traditional mutual fund where everyone else wears a suit
and tie, you probably don't want to show up in a Hawaiian shirt and shorts.
A lot of this is just common sense, and yet people often violate it.
The main thing you're looking for when it comes to your dress is are you dressed in a way that is consistent
with how people expect someone in your shoes and your position and your job to be, or are they confused?
If you're confusing them, that's generally a bad thing.
Again, I'm not telling you to dress like me or anyone else, but I want you to have a real thought
to it.
There should be a purpose to how you're dressing so that it advances your career and advances what you're
all about.
Why am I wearing this?
For example, I used to wear a suit and tie in all my videos because I typically wear a suit and tie
when conducting media training workshops with executives at major corporations and major political leaders.
But what I've found is this is a more intimate environment online.
People are watching from home on a bus somewhere.
They're casually dressed.
And there are industries like high tech, for example, where it's the kiss of death to be seen in a
suit and tie.
So that's why I have this.
This is what I call sort of my not too shirt.
It's not too formal, obviously, it's not too distracting.
There's no patterns jumping around.
It's not too black because there's actually a lot of white in here.
So you can see some nuance.
You can see where the arms and the torso are different.
It's not too light, obviously, and no one's bothered by it.
I have worn ties before where people write in, Oh, what'd you wear that ugly tie for it?
Clashes or it pixelates.
So when you are thinking of how to dress, if you're doing anything on video, simpler is better.
Solids are better, avoiding white clothing, avoid solid black.
And I realize some of you this looks solid black, but it isn't avoid stripes.
They jump around.
That's if you're going to be on TV.
But if it's for the typical day in the office, you want to be dressed by the standards of your workplace
and your organization.
Now, I've been to high tech companies where people are fabulously wealthy, and it's seen as really
odd to have an expensive, tailored suit.
It would cut against your credibility in other places.
If you don't have an expensive, tailored suit, it doesn't look good for you.
There are certain white shoe law firms here in New York City where friends of mine who are attorneys
say, I never, ever see a client in person.
I don't go to court, but I still wear the tailored suit with the French cuffs and the thousand dollar
handmade shoes, because that's the expectation.
If you want to play in the game, you've got you've got to dress the uniform is their expression.
So every industry is a little different.
Give some thought to it because you might not care about clothes.
A lot of people do.
You might not care about shoes.
A lot of people do.
I'm not going to spend a lot of time talking about hair, but just realize every industry has certain
standards and some industries, me being clean shaven would look really weird and strange.
Other industries having a beard.
Even though beards are almost the default position of so many men in the world, in the work world these
days, some professions, it's still considered a little out there.
So you've got to figure that out, have something that isn't distracting either accentuates what you're
about or at least doesn't get in the way.
That's why I don't have a lot up here.
I just try to keep it as short as possible, and that way nobody thinks I'm trying to fool them with
long comb overs or all sorts of complication.
There's less.
Not a lot there, but there's not much to distract you.
That's why I keep it short.
Am I telling you to cut your hair short?
No.
You got to figure out what works for you, because all of this is sending a message to your clients,
customers, prospects of who you are and how you want to be perceived.

--- Your Body Language Partner - The Friendly Spotter ---

You need a spotter.
You've seen this in the gym.
Someone is struggling to bench press.
£400.
They have someone standing over them in case it falls down on them and they're choking.
You need the same thing when it comes to your body language in your workplace.
Create a strategic alliance with someone.
Could be someone hired the same day as you or someone you just are friendly with.
Could be a boss or an underling, but someone you trust to tell you like it is.
You don't want to stand up and give a presentation in front of a bunch of important new clients and
you have spinach in your teeth.
You want someone to tell you if you're standing up to give a presentation, a speech, a talk.
You want someone to tell you, hey, your shirt fell out, it's not tucked in or part of your jacket
is sticking up.
I know there have been times when I've given a keynote and I had the wireless microphone on and the
microphone was causing the flap of my jacket to stand up like I had a tail.
Thankfully, I had a colleague there who said, TJ, it looks like you have a tail.
Do something.
And you want someone giving you kind of a once over before you're giving any kind of important presentation,
talk speech or even just showing up at an important networking event.
It could be an important black tie event in your industry at a conference and you don't realize one
of your buttons is off or missing.
You want someone to tell you that so that people are not looking at it the whole time.
So my advice find a buddy if you don't have one.
Inside your place of work.
Make sure you have a family member who can really scrutinize you before you leave home.

--- Using Your Voice for Maximum Storytelling Impact ---

Your voice is a powerful instrument when telling stories.
It can convey so much emotion, the tone, and it can just bring people along this whole ride.
And it should be a ride, like a roller coaster.
So if you're going to be a great storyteller, it's very difficult to do that if you are a monotone.
Yes, there are a couple of comedians who are really good at being funny, telling a monotone, but
that's hard to do.
I wouldn't try that if I were you.
The most effective way to tell a story is to use the full range of your voice, especially when you
are bringing in the dialogue of what you said to somebody and what they said back.
Use the full range of your voice and it's essential that you convey emotion when you are using your
voice.
Otherwise, how are people going to know it?
You don't want to say I was terrified at this point and say I couldn't believe it.
Use your voice to convey the terror or the fear or the joy.
Some of you may think you don't have a good voice.
Chances are your voice is fine.
But pay attention to the details in this next section to really help you build confidence in every aspect
of using your voice for presentations and in storytelling.

--- Famous Bad Voices ---

Before we get too lost in the weeds here, let's talk about the range of voices and what actually makes
a good voice, a bad voice.
Now, I do want you to like your own voice.
And presumably you don't like it now or you wouldn't be in this course.
But let's not forget, not everybody has to sound like a generic FM talk radio host in order to be successful.
For example, Barbara Walters has had a tremendous career for more than 50 years, and yet she has a
lisp as a voice that not many people would consider a good voice.
And she's had a remarkable success in broadcast journalism.
Fran Drescher, the nanny that nasal twang hasn't seemed to hurt her career.
Rosie O'Donnell, that strong sort of outer borough New York accent, tough.
And yet she's been wildly successful, has made tens of millions of dollars, if not more.
Ben Stein of Comedy Central Fame has that monotone, monotone, flat, boring monotone that you may
remember from Ferris Bueller's Day Off.
There's a lot of different types of voices that Rachael Ray Not exactly the best voice in the world.
Greta Van Susteren of Fox News Channel, one of the top rated hosts in all of primetime TV, not what
most people would consider a good voice, sort of grating, scratchy, irritating.
So let's be a little bit careful before we write off our own voices as somehow the thing that's holding
us back or that's really hurting us because there's a wide range of voices that the American public
and the public around the world considers quite acceptable and in some cases interesting because it's
a little different now.
I'm going to give you tips on how to sound your best, don't worry.
But I do want you to keep that in mind as we go through this process.

--- Record Your Voice ---

Let's hop right in.
The first thing you have to do if you want to improve your voice is you have to really diagnose it and
make sure we know exactly what the problems are.
That means you're going to have to record your voice and listen to it.
These days, it's very simple to do.
Every smartphone has an audio recorder.
Your webcam will do it.
Nothing else.
Call your own phone and leave a voicemail and you can hear it for yourself.
Now, chances are you have heard your voice before and that's what's made you decide you don't like
it.
A word of caution.
Most people don't like the sound of their own voice, and here's why.
We're used to hearing our own voice all day long, filtered through the bones and flesh in our skull.
So we're hearing our own voice in a profoundly distorted way.
But when you hear your voice coming through speakers on a cell phone, on speakers on the other side
of the room, you're hearing it in a way that's much less distorted because it's not going through bones,
it's not going through flesh, it's just going through the air.
That's how everyone else hears your voice.
Now, again, you wouldn't be in this course if you didn't dislike your voice.
But I want to throw one possibility out in front of you.
The problem might not be that you have a bad voice.
The problem might actually be that you're simply not used to hearing your voice.
And if you simply heard it more, then you'd get used to it and it wouldn't seem strange or alien.
So here's your first homework assignment.
I need you to record yourself talking.
Maybe just record a phone conversation with someone I wouldn't try to read from a phone book because
that's likely to sound very mechanical.
But just talk to someone, talk to a friend, family member, talk to a business colleague and record
it on audio.
So that's the first step.
Just get a minute, preferably two minutes.
Let's really get it all down.
Don't listen to it yet.
I'll tell you what to do in the next lecture.

--- Rehearse Your Storytelling Homework and Get Instant Feedback ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Diagnosis Your Own Voice ---

Now I want you to listen to your voice that 60s that two minutes of audio and I want you to really take
some notes.
I want to know exactly what you don't like about your voice.
I don't want some.
Oh, everything is awful.
That's too general.
That's too vague.
You can't fix something that General, that vague.
I need you to write down exactly what it is you don't like.
Are you too high pitched?
Is it too scratchy?
Is your energy too low?
Are you too monotone?
Are you too soft?
Do you sound like you're scared of yourself?
Do you sound robotic.
What is it?
There's no right or wrong answer here.
Yeah, it's subjective, but it's about you.
I want you to be happy with your voice.
So if there's something that doesn't make you happy, write it down.
It's critically essential for you to know exactly what it is you don't like.
We can't fix something if we don't know what the problem is.
So you've got to be the first step in this diagnosis.
Write down every single thing you don't like about your voice.
Do it now.

--- Feedback from Others ---

I know you didn't like recording your own voice and listening to it, but this next step is even more
important, and you're not going to like it.
I need you to take that audio file you just created, whether on on your cell phone or on your computer.
I need you to email it to a couple of friends.
Now pick friends of yours that you know will give you some honest feedback.
Not people who are just always so happy telling you how wonderful you are, how great you are.
Let's face it, most of us have somebody in our life.
We could just splatter our face with mud, put a pillow under our our shirt, and they would say, Well,
you look great and you've lost weight.
I need you to find somebody who will give you honest feedback and ask them to tell you what they don't
like about your voice.
Any weaknesses, any areas for improvement.
I need you to get some kind of objective feedback from others because it may be there's ten things you
absolutely hate about your voice and everyone else completely agrees with you.
But in my experience in helping people with their voices and voice issues for the last 30 years that
I've been doing, presentation coaching is the vast majority of the time 99.5% of the time.
Roughly, the problems we hear in our own voice are not the problems other people hear.
In fact, they don't notice that.
So again, I'm not prejudging you.
You may have very specific real problems with your voice and everyone else agrees, but we don't know
until we ask.
So I need you to take that audio file and I need you to send it to others.
Ask them for their feedback.

--- Defining Your Exact Problems ---

So now we're getting somewhere.
We're getting your feedback and feedback from others, and I want to put the feedback into roughly three
possible categories.
It may be that you and your colleagues say, Wow, your voice is so awful, so grating, so irritating,
that the second people hear it, they want to run to the nearest window and jump off the window.
I hope that doesn't happen, but that could in theory happen.
If that's a situation, I will be honest with you, I can't really help you.
You need to go to a speech therapist, someone who is highly qualified in every aspect of vocal performance
who can help you.
And I'm happy to give you a full money back on this course that you've purchased.
So I wish you well.
But if that's a situation both you and other people are telling you, your voice is just so beyond the
pale cringe worthy.
There's so many problems, then you do need a speech therapist.
Now, in my experience, in the tens of thousands of people I've worked with for 30 years, I've only
had one client who really had a genuinely irritating voice and frankly, wasn't more irritating than
Ben Stein or Fran Drescher.
And they make tens of millions of dollars with their voice.
So that's the first category.
Again, if that's you, we wish you well, but we will say goodbye.
Now, The next category is where both you and your friends listening to you have given you similar feedback
and that your voice seems a bit emotionless, bland, flat, monotone, hesitant.
If those are problems, those are very fixable problems.
And I'm going to show you exactly how to do that.
Now, the third category of feedback that is very common in these situations is that your criticism
involved all of those things and others.
But your colleagues, your friends, your family who listen to you said your voice is fine.
Never thought about it one way or the other.
If that's the case, I have to tell you, you don't really have a problem with your voice other than
you need to get used to it.
So your solution is to simply record yourself more, whether on YouTube videos, on your cell phones,
listen to your voice more, and you'll simply get used to it.
It won't seem alien and strange.
Now keep in mind there are only three types of voices that people have.
There's the top 0.0001% of people whose voices are so magical, so inviting, so different.
They are unique.
They're so memorable.
There are some people like that.
Their voices are so great.
They roll out of bed at noon, go record a voiceover for a commercial, get their million dollar check,
go home, go back to bed at 1 p.m. I don't have a voice like that.
Chances are you don't have a voice like that.
Very few people have that.
That's extraordinarily rare.
It's a gift and it's also something people work on, but that's extremely rare.
There's also the bottom .000 1%.
And I'm using these statistics roughly approximations, but you get my drift.
There's the very, very bottom of people with voices.
It's so awful.
It's so irritating.
It's so grating that people want to jump out of the window.
Now, if you've listened this far, we've already eliminated you from that category.
Now there's everyone else in between, which by my estimate, is more than 99% of people in the world
in their voices.
Well, but their voice isn't so great that people pay them money for it.
And it's not awful that people run out of the room.
They're just average voices.
Nothing wrong with that.
That's what I have.
So if that's what you have, if we can breathe a sigh of relief, we can get a little more relaxed and
comfortable.
Sure, there are things we can do to make it sound even better, and I'm going to give you those techniques.
But let's have an honest assessment of where we are in this spectrum.
I firmly believe, based on statistical probability, that you're like me in that middle, 99% of people
not fantastic beyond belief and not awful beyond belief.
So I need you to make this determination, though.
Now, you, of course, may still see problems with your voice.
It may seem flat.
It may seem too tentative, too soft.
Those are easy things to change.
And I'm going to show you exactly how to do it next.

--- Listen to Natural conversation ---

So let's talk about the number one source of problems for most people with their voices.
And again, I'm excluding that bottom less than 1% who truly have something awful.
The biggest problem for 99% of us who are displeased with our voice is that because we are nervous in
certain situations, whether it's getting in front of a boardroom to give a presentation, speaking
in front of a classroom is that we get nervous.
Once we're nervous, we stop doing the things we do with our voice that we do when we're comfortable.
So when we're nervous, we might start speaking quickly.
We might start speaking in a monotone because we're thinking about how do we get through this?
You're an awful that sounds.
And I really want you to know I'm right.
We put doubt into our voice and end with question marks at the end or we're not certain we're right.
So we speak.
So softly.
No one can understand us.
We mumble, we whisper.
So these are not technically problems with your voice.
This is simply your voice expressing your emotions.
And the voice often doesn't lie.
So the key here is you've got to figure out how you come across your best.
Any time you're speaking and then do it that way, even if you are nervous.
That is the key to solving most people's vocal problems.
Because if you hear yourself giving a speech and you're thinking, Uh oh, I sound boring, I sound
droning, I would hate to listen to myself.
The problem might not be your voice.
The problem might be that you're reading a really boring PowerPoint.
So here's what we've got to do to a thoroughly diagnose the problem.
B, come up with a solution.
I need you to call a friend request and let your friend know you're doing this, although you don't
have to because you're only recording your side of the voice.
You're not recording your friend and I need you to just forget about the recorder for a while.
And I need you to talk to a good friend about something you care passionately about.
It could be NFL football.
It could be Olympic ice skating.
It could be politics.
It could be any it could be religion.
Anything you care about passionately.
Just have a 20 minute conversation, record it, try to forget that there's even a recording.
And if it's a friend, you sometimes you yell or you get excited.
You get upset.
You're angry about the refs.
Call at last night's college basketball game.
I need you to record it.
I don't care what you're talking about.
Here's what I do care about is once you record it, I need you to listen to it.
And here's what most people find when you're simply talking naturally, your voice has great variation.
Sometimes you're louder, sometimes you're softer, sometimes you get excited and you're faster and
there's more excitement.
Sometimes just slow it down and occasionally there's a pause.
A good voice is kind of like a roller coaster.
Sometimes it's fast, sometimes it's slow, sometimes it goes around corners, sometimes it's up, sometimes
it's down.
There's variation to your voice.
That's what makes someone interesting to listen to.
Not sounding like a generic TV news anchor.
That's not what necessarily makes anyone interesting to listen to.
So that's what I need you to do right now.
Call a friend and you don't have to listen to it all.
Just fast forward or go to the part on the digital audio file halfway in or two thirds in where you
think, okay, we're getting in a debate about something there and I'd forgotten we were recording.
Listen to just that one minute.
Chances are you're going to hear a lot more variation in your voice than when you're practicing that
speech that you had to give at next week's trade association convention, where you sound boring and
flat and monotone the way I do.
So I need you to do this diagnosis because if I'm correct and I often am, your voice is going to sound
a lot better because you're going to have the full range of your voice louder, softer, faster, slower
pauses, and your voice will come alive.
So please do that for me right now.

--- Don't Lower Your Voice ---

And now I want to talk about the number one thing people do to make their voices better.
That doesn't work.
That, in fact, makes their voices worse.
The number one thing I've found people doing women, but also men, is they try to lower their voice
to sound deeper and more authoritative because they're concerned that their voice is too high and they
won't be taken seriously.
Oh, can you hear how annoying that is?
How fake it sounds, How phony?
You do not have to have a low voice in order to be considered serious or formal.
In fact, that's a way to make yourself sound ridiculous.
Lowering your voice does several awkward things.
First of all, it makes you more manageable if you're down like this all the time.
It is in a more of a single tone area, so it's easier to put people to sleep.
The other thing is, unless you are a trained Broadway actor or actress and you've been going to acting
school for two dozen years, you're going to be acting.
And you know what?
It's really hard work to act.
You've spotted bad actors that you don't like on TV and movies.
Well, guess what?
That bad actor had a lot more practice than you did.
So if you start acting like you have this rich, this rich, deep, resonant voice, it's going to sound
phony.
It's going to sound pompous.
It's going to sound ridiculous.
Here's the thing about the voice tones.
You don't need a deep, deep, deep voice.
What you need is a real range.
If your voice occasionally goes high, great.
That's a tool.
Now, if you're like this the whole time, then that's not a problem of having a high voice.
That's a problem of being monotone because you're that high.
All the time.
Unless you're Minnie Mouse or you consume a lot of helium, that's actually a rare thing for people
to have.
So I want you to promise me one thing.
You can work on all sorts of vocal exercises if you want, but don't try to lower your voice.
It's simply not a fact.
It's not needed.
Look at some of the most famous successful TV commentators.
If you're at all into politics, you've certainly seen Pat Buchanan on the airwaves almost every day
for 30 years on every cable news network, PBS, McLaughlin Group, Crossfire, you name it.
And when he gets excited, his voice goes like this.
I can't believe you.
His voice goes very high, and yet he's made millions of dollars a year for 30 years on TV using his
voice.
Also, he was a talk radio person.
Listen to whoever you respect the most on radio.
So if you are a liberal.
Thom Hartmann, if you are a conservative, Rush Limbaugh, they don't talk like this the whole time.
They have a whole range that when they get excited, it goes up.
That's what allows your voice to be magical.
To be powerful is full range.
Don't fight it.
Don't hold it in.
Oh, I don't want to have a high tone.
People won't think I'm serious.
Oh, please.
Come on, get over it.
Now, I do believe a lot of women have been sold a phony bill of goods on this issue because many women
have been told, well, it's a man's world, and that may be true.
And you won't be taken seriously unless you speak with a deep voice like a man.
That is not true.
My friends, does Oprah Winfrey talk like this all the time?
No.
And she's been extraordinarily successful.
You want to use your voice.
And again, I get back to these themes I've mentioned earlier.
It's hard to be an actor.
It's really, really hard to be an actor.
And if you try to act, it's really easy for people to spot it and say that person's acting, that person's
phony, Well, now you have a problem much worse than your voice.
You have people doubting your authenticity and think you're being a big phony.
Now, people will forgive a voice that's a little scratchy or isn't necessarily as beautiful as what
you hear on FM radio.
But people are very unlikely to forgive someone being phony, being fake, putting on an act.
So I want you to not listen to the people who say you need to speak with a deeper voice.
It is not true.
Now, people.
My generation a little older are used to listening to an old CBS News anchor called Walter Cronkite,
and he did speak in the lower registers and Walter Cronkite.
And that's the way it is.
Most vocal experts would actually say his voice was not used in the proper way.
It was kept in a way that sounded artificially low and low registers.
Another anchor just a little bit younger than Walter Cronkite.
Peter Jennings would have a higher voice.
And indeed, you listen to whether it's Brian Williams today or some of the other news anchors, it's
not this stereotypical, deep, deep, deep voice.
It's certainly not what got Diane Sawyer or Katie Couric their slots as anchors during their reigns
on nighttime TV.
So be very, very careful about trying to lower your voice.
In fact, I urge you to be careful about doing anything to dramatically change your voice.
The key is you're getting from me by now is to use your own voice, but to use your voice as it sounds
when you're relaxed, having a spirited conversation with someone where you've got the highs, the lows,
the fastest lows and everything in between.

--- How to Improve Your Voice Other Techniques ---

You may have noticed in this course, I haven't spent a lot of time talking about speak from the diaphragm
and put your tongue at the top part of the back of your teeth and go.
I'm not knocking some of those techniques.
I've just found for most people, most of the time they don't help much because they simply don't stick.
It's not repeatable.
The main thing I advocate that does help that I find is repeatable, that makes substantial change,
is practicing on video and audio, really listening to yourself, getting comfortable with how you're
coming across, having that mental image, that memory of how your voice is, and that is what is going
to give you the confidence to sound confident and not let the nerves trip you up to cause all these
problems I've talked about.
If you want to try the other solutions of breathing exercises and diaphragm exercises, different positionings
with your tongue on.
Be my guest.
And as I mentioned to you before, if you really have a severe, severe speech impediment or other neurological
problem, then I would advise you to consult with a speech pathologist, a speech therapist.
But if you have the garden variety problem of just not liking your voice because you sound scared,
nervous, uncomfortable, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
The exercises in this course will solve your problems.

--- Having the Most Fun Possible in Your Story ---

Here's something you'll never hear from people leaving a conference, a speech or presentation.
I hated the way that speaker was so consistently funny with all those humorous stories.
You'll never hear that.
What you do hear quite often is, Oh, this person was so boring, I thought I would fall asleep.
Any time you can put humor into your stories, it's generally a good thing.
There's always exceptions, but for the most part, if you can make people laugh, several things happen.
We know they're understanding you.
We know they're we know they're giving some level of approval.
They are responding to you and they're liking what you say.
So any time you get laughs, for the most part, it is a very good thing.
We also know they're paying attention and they're not ignoring you off sending emails.
So all of those things are great signs.
Now, you don't have to become a professional comedian.
You don't have to go to a standup comedy course every Monday night for the next ten weeks just to be
able to tell stories in a business setting.
Although it's not a bad thing if you want to do for fun, but you don't have to.
This section is going to give you tips on how to use humor more effectively in any of your business
and professional presentations when telling stories.

--- Make Fun of Yourself ---

The best source for comedy, for laughs in your stories is when you make fun of yourself, because then
it's not like an obvious joke you stole from a Milton Berle joke book.
It's not something canned.
It's not something phony.
And people like it when the big shot speaker is making fun of himself or herself.
So it makes you more likable, and especially if it relates to a story that is important to your audience,
then all comes together in a compelling way.
So, for example, when I am speaking to people and speaking specifically on how they can look their
best on television, I always have a point where I say, You need to realize you need some expression
on your face when you're being introduced or when you're listening to the reporter or host talk to you
and ask you questions.
Because if you have just a blank look on your face, maybe fine for a meeting and in person conversation
with someone, but on a video screen, it will look awful.
For example, how do I look right now?
And then I do this.
So when I'm in a room full of 12 people, everybody laughs and I'll say, Oh, what's wrong?
And they'll say, You look bored, boring, unengaged out of it.
You look like a mug shot.
A criminal.
So people laughing, they're laughing at me.
But it's to make a specific point, which is if you want to look your best on TV, you need a little
bit of a smile on your face.
Not a gigantic TV evangelist, but just a little bit of an upturn.
What I just did, by the way, I should point out, I'm not naturally that funny.
My friends don't say, oh, TJ, you're a laugh riot.
But what I did right there consistently gets me to laughs.
Any time I'm giving speeches or presentations or workshops, the first where I have my face go completely
blank and I say, How do I look?
People laugh every time.
Now, this isn't the sort of joke that's going to get me on The Tonight Show or famous comedy special.
It's not that kind of a joke, but it gets laughs because I'm making fun of myself.
And it's funny because I look so awful.
The second thing I did is I'm making the point how you need a little bit of a smile, but not a gigantic
smile.
And then I just talk about not like a TV evangelist that gets a laugh because people have images of
sort of big fake phony TV evangelists with gigantic smiles on their face.
And that gets a laugh every time.
Is it brilliant?
No.
But again, I'm making fun of myself, making fun of something in pop culture.
And it's making an important point about don't smile too big or have a, you know, a fake smile plastered
on your face, just a little bit of an upturn.
So you look more relaxed when you're presenting on video.
Now, the final big lesson here is, again, I'm not naturally that funny.
I'm not this quick wit who's just has everyone at the dinner party rolling on the floor laughing.
But what I do is similar to what great comedians do, which is I listen.
If something got a joke, I use it next time.
So those two elements I just mentioned have gotten laughs for me again and again and again.
So I reuse them when I have new audiences.
I'm not going to say it again to you because you'll have seen it already.
So that's a part of any great comedians technique and a humorous technique and a great storytellers
technique.
Something gets a laugh as a part of a story in the past.
Reuse it again and again and again until it stops getting laughs.

--- You Aren't Jerry Seinfeld ---

The best source of material for funny stories are going to be your own life.
Again, I would caution you against trying to recycle something you saw on a late night talk show or
a comedy special.
If people want to watch Chris Rock or or Jason Alexander or Jerry Seinfeld, they can watch them with
a click of a button on their TV or their computer or YouTube.
They don't need you to recount something.
So your best stories with humor that will get laughs come from your own experiences.
Sometimes it's just a matter of a little distance, thinking about how embarrassing it was and sharing
that with people.
And it will get laughs and help you make the point.

--- Your Comedy Laboratory ---

If you want laughs.
Remember, so much of it is about trial and error experimentation.
It's very hard to actually engineer something you know is guaranteed to get a laugh.
And that's why the greatest the greatest comedians in the world will tell you so much of their success
is simply that they had the patience, the tenacity, the discipline and sort of the the ability to
withstand pain after getting up night after night, sometimes for two years and getting booed off stages.
Getting one laugh in ten minutes or two laughs in 20 minutes.
And it's this painstaking process of figuring out what works, keep it, what doesn't work, throw it
away, doing it again and again and again.
Now, as a storyteller, the standards for you are lower than if you're a standup comedian.
If you're a standup comedian, the audience is sitting there thinking, You better make me laugh every
five seconds or I'm going to get angry and throw rotten vegetables at you.
If you are a business person in a professional setting and telling a story, if you can get just a handful
of laughs throughout 20 minutes, 30 minutes of a presentation, your audience is going to love you.
They're going to think you're far and away the best presenter they've seen all day, maybe all week,
maybe ever.
So that's the good news.
It's just a few little laughs will make your presentation so much better.
But in order to get those, you can use the comedians discipline of trying things, keeping it when
it works, getting rid of it when it doesn't work.

--- Your Worst Moments Are Comedy Gold ---

Easiest way to get a laugh from an audience.
Just tell a story about something really embarrassing that happened to you, might be embarrassing to
you, but it's funny to other people.
I'm not saying human beings are all cruel, but if you see a cartoon character slipping on a banana,
you know nobody's really getting hurt.
And it's not you.
It can still be funny.
So if you're looking for source material, just look at the most embarrassing things that have happened
in your own life.
Make sure that it ties in to a principle, a message that's relevant to your audience.

--- Don't Seem Like You Are Trying Too Hard ---

All righty.
Let me tell you a story.
This is really funny.
You're going to love it.
Rule number one.
When you want to be funny, don't try too hard.
If you seem like you're trying really hard to be funny, then it's generally not funny.
Don't seem like you're trying.
Also, my advice.
You're going to tell a joke.
Tell something funny.
Don't tell anybody you're telling a joke or that you're telling something that you think is funny.
Just tell it.
The second you tell the audience, let me tell you a joke or let me tell you a funny story.
Several things happen, for starters.
You've stopped saying interesting stuff.
You're now talking about the process which no one cares about next.
People's expectations go way up, even if they like you, even if they're on your side.
There's a part of them saying, Well, he says, it's a funny story.
I'll be the judge of that.
Their standards are going to go way up.
So even if it is funny, they're kind of waiting for it and expecting it.
So you've eliminated the element of surprise.
And even if you get a little chuckle, it's kind of like, ah ha ha, okay, you're not going to get
the same impact as if you just said what you're going to say, and it got a laugh.
So my recommendation.
Use humor.
Try to be funny occasionally, even if you want to tell a joke.
But don't ever tell your audience you're trying to be funny or that you're going to tell them a funny
story or that you're going to tell them a joke.
Guess what?
They'll figure it out.
And if they didn't get a laugh, you can just act like you were telling a story that wasn't trying to
be funny because you didn't set the expectations up in the first place.

--- Avoiding the Hack ---

Don't tell a joke just to tell a joke.
That's what hack comedians do.
That's what bad speakers do because they think, Oh, if I get him to laugh, I'll be more relaxed.
If you want to be a compelling storyteller, everything needs to be done by design.
On purpose, you need to be making a point.
Now, if something's spontaneous, if someone's cell phone goes off and you make a joke about tell the
bill collectors you're not here.
If you want to do something, that's okay.
But you don't want to seem like you've prepared and packaged and you're now going to deliver this set
joke.
You're not a professional comedian now.
Professional comedians can do this because they spent thousands of hours in front of people, often
open mics, practicing their craft.
You don't have time for that.
So you don't have the professionalism, I'm assuming, of a professional comic.
You also don't want to seem like a bad amateur hack comic.
So that's why my advice is don't tell jokes, don't tell a reworn reused, used up joke story that people
have heard.
Just tell your story and if you can bring in personal elements, anything embarrassing to you, any
surprises, then your humor will come across as genuine, authentic, real and not like a stand up comedy
wannabe.

--- Showing the Fun ---

If you want to be funny, you need to convey that something is funny with your face, with your voice,
every part of your body.
Very few people can be like Steven Wright, the famous comedian who has the droll monotone one liners
for the rest of us, if we want people to know something is funny, we have to convey that with our
facial expressions, with our tone of voice, with an actual laugh.
Don't be afraid to laugh if something makes you laugh, too.
This will all send signals to the audience that, hey, you're having fun.
They might as well to.

--- Your Humorous Voice ---

When you're telling stories, it's especially important if you want to be funny to use your voice to
full effect.
We have a whole section earlier on Voices, but if you're trying to bring in humor, you really need
to use your voice for maximum effect.
If you're talking about a character who is clearly a different age, ethnicity, different country from
you, different perspective, different accent, then try to be close to them.
Now, you don't want to sound like you're doing racial stereotypes and offending anyone, but if you
are, for example, a young woman and you are talking about an experience where you had this gruff old
man chastising, you then become a gruff old man with your voice, No one's going to be offended by
that.
Use your voice to convey the character of this person.
And it's okay to exaggerate slightly.
No one's judging you on the standards of are you a professional mimic or a professional impressionist,
But just bringing to life that voice with a slightly exaggerated tone will make the whole thing funnier.
Not every time, but some of the time.

--- The Funny Self-Talker ---

When you're using humor in your stories, don't forget to tell people what you were thinking.
You can bring in self-talk.
Sometimes that can make it funnier.
So much of humor, comedy, you hear this all the time is about timing.
What is timing?
Well, it's really about pausing, not racing.
Too many people when they're giving presentations or telling stories are just racing along.
They're reading as if they were reading a piece of paper and they're reading in their own mind.
And boom, boom, boom, boom.
The mind can't catch up with it.
So you need to give people space to connect the dots, to visualize this embarrassing thing that just
happened to you, to answer in their own mind what they would be thinking.
So when people talk about timing, it's quite often just pausing more and not racing.
So you've got to really factor that in.
If you tell a story and you give people time to think about it, quite often they'll come to their own
conclusion that it was in fact funny.

--- The Bottom Line on Humor ---

Final thing to think about when it comes to adding humor in your storytelling is you can dissect it.
Chop it, slice it and dice it all day long.
At some point, people either find it funny or they don't.
You don't have to be wildly funny to be a good storyteller, but the more humor you have generally,
the more people will like you, the more they will remember you, the more your other messages go down.
So it does behoove you to try to think about how can you add elements of humor in your presentation?
Bottom line is, if it works, it works.
Keep using it.
If it doesn't work, it doesn't work.
And this the ultimate authority is not me.
It's not any other public speaking coach or humor coach.
The ultimate authority is your audience.

--- Your Humorous Story ---

I haven't asked a lot of you in this course so far.
It's time to bring out your cell phone, your webcam, and let's just practice trying to be humorous,
having a story with a humorous element.
And all I want you to do is to retell something embarrassing that happened to you or something awkward
and how you reacted to it.
Try to bring in all the story elements from before and try to do something where we can visualize this
embarrassing thing.
If you want to try something else to bring in humor or have some fun, that's fine too.
But practice this speech right now.
Do it as many times as it takes until you like it and then upload it to YouTube, Facebook, Google
Drive, put the URL right here and the Q and A section and let us watch it.
Let's all have some fun.

--- Don't Do This ---

In this section, I'm going to cover common blunders people make when they're telling stories or they're
planning stories.
I don't like to lead with mistakes to avoid because I find it's much more productive to help people
focus on what does work.
But there is a place for talking about blunders and mistakes, and here it is.
So take a look.

--- The Biggest Blunder of All ---

By far the biggest mistake people have regarding storytelling is simply not having a story that is far
and away the number one mistake.
People in business, politics, culture, civic life is they just don't have stories.
They try to tell people at the abstract level, the fact based level they do a data dump.
Nothing is remembered.
The whole speech, the whole presentation was a complete waste of time because it was instantly forgotten.
Now, I hope you're not even tempted to make this mistake after being in this course this long, but
realize it's always easy to slide back into the old habits.
And the old habits in most organizations is you've got a presentation, it's on the calendar.
Someone in the PowerPoint department will start coming up with slides.
The slides go back and forth legal.
And before you know it, all this time has been spent creating this this deck, this presentation,
and it feels like it's this old monster that you can't even control anymore at that point.
Oh, my gosh, it's too late to put in stories, right?
Wrong.
It's never too late to put in storage.
But ideally, don't let it get to that point.
That's not how your presentation should be created.
Your presentation should be created with you asking yourself, What do you want the audience to do?
What messages are going to do that?
And then what stories do you have for each one?

--- Don't Cut That ---

Next biggest blunder people make regarding stories.
Less time than they thought they had got to cut something.
Let me cut out the stories because there's so much important data to go through.
Big, big mistake.
If you thought you had 20 minutes and you had three points and three stories and now someone tells you
you've only got ten minutes, don't cut out your stories.
Cut out some of those data points, those extra facts, those extra slides.
Stick with your stories, because that's what people will remember.
They're not going to remember the bullet points, the numbers, the little chart lines that go like
this.
That's not what they're going to remember.
So don't delete the stories.
Delete extra data.
Keep your stories, especially if you have less time than originally scheduled.

--- Should Be Obvious, But Is Not ---

Another big blunder people make is telling a story that some in the audience interpret as racist, sexist.
Off color offensive to certain minority groups or religious groups or sexual orientation groups.
And no, you can't get away with it by saying, well, I was just quoting someone else or I was just
passing along with someone else.
No, it's going to stick to you.
So you have to be very concerned about, again, your audience, how are they going to interpret it?
The fact that you like it and it's harmless to you doesn't matter if people in your audience are offended.
Because if people are offended by your story, that's what they're going to remember that you're an
offensive person, not the message that was supposed to be helpful to them.
So that's the real problem with racist, sexist, offensive jokes and stories is it's not about being
politically correct.
They're just not effective.
They don't help you communicate because they're distracting people and they're just making people not
like you.
So that's a big blunder people continue to make.
Don't practice your stories and don't test your stories on people who look 100% like you and sound like
you and are the same age and the same ethnicity as you.
You should practice.
You should have some circle of people that really represent your audience, and that way you can get
some feedback.
If something is bothering people, I remember once, many years ago it wasn't in a story, but it was
in a PowerPoint presentation.
I was stressing to people that when you're doing a media interview, you need to have your eyes staring
at your message points, not looking around the room or staring at Facebook or your website.
But you should literally be staring at your message points to increase the odds that the message points
come out of your mouth when doing your interview.
So I had an image.
It was an image of a person whose eyes were bulging out.
I thought it was a little bit funny.
More important, I thought it really drove home the point.
Keep your eyes on your messages so it didn't have a slide with a whole bunch of text.
It wasn't confusing.
It wasn't trying to convey too many ideas.
It was one idea.
So I was following everything I thought was a best practice when it comes to using PowerPoint.
But one day.
One of my audience members came up to me afterwards and said, TJ, that slide I personally find racist.
I find it offensive.
Had not occurred to me, to be totally honest.
But I listened carefully.
I was a little annoyed at first, but then I realized, you know what?
This person just did me a huge favor because if he finds this slide annoying, racist, offensive,
guess what?
Maybe there are a lot of other people do, too.
And you know what I did with that slide?
Boop.
I hit delete and I just came up with a completely different image.
So that's what you need to be on the lookout for when it comes to your your presentations with your
stories in them is it's not about being overtly racist and using the N word.
Obviously.
I'm assuming you're not going to do that.
But sometimes it's just an image.
Sometimes it's just one cultural reference in your story that some people could find offputting or offensive.
You need to listen, you need to respond, you need to edit.
Sometimes you need to delete.

--- Less Is Not Always More ---

Another common blunder being too short.
There was this time I gave a speech and the introduction was a little too long, so I made mine short
and I got off the stage.
Well, guess what?
That's not a story.
I said that in about 10s, but there's not enough there.
You don't have a sense of the characters, the setting, the problem, the nothing.
So that's a huge problem for a lot of people.
They think they're adding stories, but they're only talking for 10s and they're just giving a couple
of elements.
People come to me all the time say, TJ, teach me to be concise.
I want to be concise.
They stand up, they speak, and their whole speech is two minutes and they try to cover.
Nine points.
They don't have a single story, a single really interesting example.
And they sit down.
Well, they were concise.
And then I asked people, what does anyone remember from what this speaker just said?
Nothing.
So.
I want to change your thinking.
I don't think your goal should ever be to be concise.
Now, you don't want to go on and on and on and have too many words and drown out your message.
But your goal isn't to be concise.
Your goal is to communicate your messages.
Your goal is to be memorable.
When telling a story, it's to tell people as much information as they need to really have an investment
in the characters.
The problem, the solution, the conflict, the emotion and what the message was.
You don't have to talk for ten minutes.
You don't even have to talk for three minutes for a story.
But you're going to have to talk longer than 10s.
So avoid this common blunder of just being way too short and too concise.

--- More Is Sometimes Less ---

Another common blunder people make is being too long.
They're going on and on and on.
Maybe it started off interesting, but the audience is thinking, Where's TJ going with this?
I'm not saying it.
It's getting late.
I've got email to check.
If people don't know why you're going in a certain direction, if they're just seems like there's too
much detail or you're going off on tangents, that's a huge problem.
Your storytelling will not be effective.
So sometimes you want to talk it out, look at it and try to edit it down, Try to figure out what can
I cut out of this and still keep the meat, still keep the good stuff.
So it can be a problem of going on too long.
In my experience, the far more common problems people not having stories or being too short.
Remember when the movie came out?
The Titanic?
It was the most successful movie in the history of movies, and it was three hours and 15 minutes long.
Now, they could have done the whole thing in a half an hour and just left out a lot of detail.
But would that have been as good a story?
Now, your speech doesn't have to have a three hour and 15 minute story inside.
But just remember, if it's good, people will listen for a long time if it's boring.
Even 30s is too long.

--- Let's Take Things Up a Notch ---

In this section, I'm going to cover a lot of advanced tips on storytelling.
A word of note this is not a completely linear thing where the first lecture leads to the second, to
the third, to the fourth.
So it's not as consistent a whole of a segment as some of the others.
Keep that in mind.
What that does mean is you can jump around, you can click on just the ones that look of interest to
you, but these are meant as standalone tips to help you become an even more effective storyteller.
Enjoy.

--- The Best Written Stories Are Often Not Written At All ---

This is going to be a shock for some of you.
Some of the best public speakers in the world, the best storytellers in the world don't write out their
stories.
They don't write out their whole speeches.
They're good speakers, not because they stay up till 2 a.m. writing and rewriting and rehearsing and
practicing.
No, that's not their technique.
They create a database of stories, and when they're preparing for a presentation, a speech, they
think of it almost like going to a jukebox.
I'll take A three, B, two, C, seven.
They're combining stories with messages.
The order may be completely different, but they look at their presentation in terms of here are the
ideas I'm trying to communicate.
Now let me go into my database to pick the best stories to make those messages come alive.
This is a system that frankly saves a lot of time and makes the whole presentation come across so much
more effective because you will essentially have rehearsed your presentation before because you have
given the stories before.
Obviously, this doesn't work if you're speaking to the same group of employees or the same group of
people again and again.
But if you have similar messages, but you're talking to different groups, this is an extraordinarily
effective way of preparing for presentations.
So put away the pen and the keyboard.

--- Read Your Audience ---

To be a great storyteller.
You have to read your audience at all times when delivering your stories.
Are they crying?
Are they laughing?
Do they look confused?
Are they typing email?
You're trying to figure out what's working, what isn't working?
Are you having the intended effect on your audience or are you confusing them?
What works with one audience might not work with another.
With some audiences, you may need more detail, more repetition.
There's something about live performance, whether it's the theater singing or yes, just giving a speech
or presentation that makes it better.
And that is you can react to your audience, you can read your audience.
You're not just up there like a video projector where someone hit on and you're just going through the
motions.
That's not what any great speaker does.
If you're going to be a master storyteller, you've got to be comfortable enough with your material
and your stories to really be present with your audience, to look at them, to listen to them, to
figure out what effect are you having on them.

--- Make Your Audience a Part of Your Story ---

When you're telling a story to your audience, you can occasionally ask questions of your audience.
It doesn't have to be as simple as yes or no.
Or has that ever happened to you?
Although you could put those in.
What you'll find, though, is in most cases, all the answers to a particular question you have will
come down to 3 or 4 of the basic same answers again and again and again.
So if this is an important point to you and it's a good story, you can ask questions and then you're
ready to react with 3 or 4 different templates.
The beauty of this is your audience doesn't know you've heard the question or their answers before.
They don't know that you've planned this in advance and you're giving off the sense that this is live.
You're thinking on your feet.
This is a conversation.
It's not just a performance, a set thing that's being tossed out.
So get ready to ask questions of your audience, but be prepared for any answer.
Again, you do it often enough and you'll find you'll already know the answers most of the time.

--- Tell Me Something New ---

Whether they realize it or not.
Many in your audience are asking themselves this question.
Does this speaker have a story I haven't heard before?
Do you have a good answer for them?
The rap on a lot of speakers, especially in the motivational genre, is that they're just saying the
same old thing.
They've got a different version of the same old story of, Oh, I was so down and out and I worked my
way up with nothing.
And so you're going to have no problem because you're better off than I was.
It is true.
There are a lot of motivational speakers who follow that basic template.
Now, this can still work depending on how gifted a storyteller you are and how compelling your story
is.
But here's something that will be even more effective and is frankly easier.
Have not only a unique story, but have a unique point.
Deliver an idea that gets people thinking, Hmm, I never really thought of that before.
Do that and you'll stand out.

--- Complexity Makes Your Characters More Interesting ---

When you're describing the characters in your story, bring about some complexity.
If it's just a stick figure, if it's just he's pure evil and he beats children for fun and starves
cats.
It's harder for the audience to relate to that because life is complex and there's good and bad in everyone.
So if you take the time to describe flaws as well as good aspects of the different characters, yourself
included, it's going to come across as more authentic, more believable, especially when you're talking
about yourself.
And ultimately you did something well and something you think people can learn from.
Take the time to physically describe your weaknesses, and any that's less than ideal will make you
sound more believable and more relevant.

--- Share the Pain ---

Are you sharing the pain of your characters now?
Don't make up anything, as I've talked about before in this course.
The best stories are simply real experience you have with real people.
But don't hold back on the pain as you'll see later on when I share it with you more of my stories.
I talk about the pain of just fear of being shot when a talk show host pulls a gun on me.
I talk about the nervousness of giving my very first speech in life.
Don't forget to tell people the pain that certainly you feel, but also that the other characters in
your stories are feeling.

--- The Story Image Lives On ---

When you're telling a great story, remember this the image people put in their own mind as you tell
the story, that's what they'll remember more so than your words, more so than your message.
Sometimes that's why it's so important to test.
Sometimes you can create imagery that's so powerful it can overwhelm your message and your story.
So remember, it's the images people remember often more important than your message to them.
You've got to bring it together.
You've got to make sure there's congruence.
So the image remembered is totally consistent with the message you want your audience to remember.

--- Where Is This Going ---

Remember, unless you're a professional comedian or humorist, it's not enough to simply tell a story.
Your audience needs to know right from the beginning, Where is this going?
What's the point of this?
You need to make sure your audience understands the point.
Otherwise, even if there are some amusing anecdotes, it might leave them scratching their heads.
Why is he telling me this?
Why is she saying this?
There are different standards for you being up on stage or in a boardroom giving a presentation versus
just telling an interesting story about what happened earlier today at the dinner table with family
or friends.
So the standards are higher when it comes to giving official, formal or important business presentations
and stories, on the other hand.
Standards are actually lower because people are not expecting you to have interesting stories.
They're most likely expecting a boring data dump.
So you can win just by delivering a story that has a clear point.

--- Here Is The Best Way to Thank People ---

You've heard me mention that when you're starting a presentation, the easiest, the best thing is to
just start right away into a story.
Start with a setting or introduce the character.
People say to me, T.J., you know, I just can't do it.
It feels weird.
It feels rude, it feels obnoxious.
Of course, I have to thank the organization that invited me.
Of course, I have to thank the person who introduced me, thank people for listening, thank them for
their time.
You could, but you do not have to.
It's frankly boring.
Everyone is expecting you to do that.
Nobody's walking away saying, Wow, awful, boring speech, but I sure am glad he thanked me.
That's not what goes on in the mind of the audience.
I want you to think of it from a slightly different perspective.
I would submit to you that the single best way of thanking the audience, the best way of thanking the
people who who invited you, the best way of thanking the organization.
Is to deliver a great speech, a great presentation filled with great stories.
Do that.
Do it from the beginning and they will feel like you really are thanking them because you prepared your
very best.

--- A New Twist on An Old Story ---

You've heard me mention that the best stories are personal to you, but they don't have to be personal.
But if you're not going to use personal stories, at least tell an old story that maybe people have
heard before, but do it in a new way.
There's got to be a new lesson there, a new twist.
Malcolm Gladwell, the New Yorker writer and bestselling author, does this so well with his speech
on David and Goliath.
He talks about an old story people have heard of for thousands of years, but he tells it in a completely
different way with different lessons.
That's what makes it so effective.

--- Abstraction Is Your Enemy ---

Abstraction is the enemy of great speakers everywhere.
What do I mean by abstraction?
They the company.
We.
It happened.
Be specific.
That's the beauty of telling stories.
It's virtually impossible.
Indeed, it is completely impossible to be abstract.
If you tell a story with all the story elements as outlined in this course.
When you talk about one real person with one real problem and one real place that takes the abstract
concept and allows people to visualize it.
Don't talk about pain with suffer.
Talk about my throat.
My my tooth was throbbing and I was in tears.
I was in so much pain.
That's specific.
Pain is an abstraction.
I call the company.
That's an abstraction.
I called Jim Smithers, the vice president of sales.
And I said, Hey, Jim, I got a real problem that's specific.
So it's okay to introduce abstractions in your presentation.
Intelligent people have to deal with abstract thought, but if you want people to not only understand
it, but remember it, process it and act upon it, you must bring the abstraction down to the concrete
level.
That's what stories are so good for.

--- Show N Tell, Not Just Tell ---

Remember when you were a kid in school?
It wasn't called Tell.
It was called Show and Tell.
Any time you can show something when giving a presentation and telling a story, all the better.
Now, if you have a prop, great.
If you're talking about how you search the world over for that perfect gemstone or that perfect bracelet,
and now you have it, then show it by all means.
But it doesn't have to be a physical object.
If you want to talk about how you're talking to a small child, get down and bend down really low.
If you're speaking to someone who's scaring you a big, scary giant, then make yourself a big, scary
giant.
You don't have to go to acting school.
You don't have to hire Meryl Streep, but use your body to show it.
If you're running away from someone because you're being attacked by bandits, then run at least three
feet across the stage or across the room where you're speaking.
The more you show, instead of just having your lips move, the more memorable you'll be, the more
compelling and the greater impact you'll have on your audience.

--- All Five Senses ---

The best stories use all five senses.
You want to make your audience see where you were.
You want to make them feel what you were feeling.
If something's hot or painful, let them know if there's a sickly sweet smell or there's a fire.
Smell it.
Let your audience really feel like they're experiencing it.
Smelling it.
Are you touching something that's bumpy, harsh?
Is it cold metal because it's a gun next to your neck?
Now, don't make up stuff.
Don't feel like you have to be as overly dramatic as a gun.
It could be.
You're simply sitting at your boring desk job and you're feeling how cold the desk is.
But let people feel it.
How does it feel?
How does it taste?
How does it smell?
How does it sound?
We need to hear the difference in the voices of the characters in your story.
Use all five senses and you'll be much more powerful in your stories with your audience.

--- Increase the Tension ---

Great stories have not just tension between the main characters, but they have increasing levels of
tension.
I understand you can't do that all of the time, but when you can add extra elements of tension, so
much the better.
You thought that you were going to lose a $50,000 client.
Now it turns out something so bad has happened.
You're fearful of losing your whole career at extra elements of tension in your story and you'll bring
the audience along with you.
It'll make for an even stronger emotional impact on them.

--- Think Like a Movie Director, Not a Typist ---

Really great storytellers start to develop the mindset almost of being like a movie director.
You're thinking visually, this scene leads to this scene, leads to this scene.
You're not just thinking about words out of people's mouths.
You're thinking in terms of scenes.
It works for Steven Spielberg.
It works for the top directors in the world.
It can work for you when telling your stories.

--- Be Active, Not Passive ---

The more you can speak in the active voice and in first person, the better.
Leave the passive stuff for others, it's generally not good for writing.
It's certainly not good for storytelling.
Talk about it as if you were there right now.
Talk about yourself.
Use the first person.
Use I use me.
Say what he did.
What she did back to you.
Don't make this overly formalistic, overly complicated.
You will lose your audience if you do this.
Your stories will have much more immediacy.
Be easier to follow and will seem less stilted.

--- Just Tell the Story Already ---

Never tell people you're going to tell them a story.
They'll figure it out.
You heard me mention this earlier, but I just wanted to stress this again for the advanced tip section.
Give your audience a little credit.
They will figure out you're telling a story and use every second of your time for maximum impact.
Telling people you're going to tell them a story is an interesting.
They'll figure it out.
You don't see the director of a Hollywood blockbuster come out at the beginning of the show and say,
Today, I want to show you a movie.
Well, no, we know it's a movie.
We're seeing it right now.
Don't waste time on the obvious.
Instead, spend your time giving compelling details for your story to bring people in.

--- No, You Don't Want to Be Concise ---

I said this earlier and I want to say it again because it's such an important point.
Your goal when you're speaking or when you're telling a story is not to be concise.
I know some of you think that's the goal.
And I have clients come to me all the time say, TJ, teach me to be concise.
No, I don't want you to be long winded just for the sake of being long winded.
I don't want you to speak for seven hours as Fidel Castro once did.
I want you to speak primarily for impact on your audience and take as much time as you need.
It's certainly possible to be too long, but it's far more possible to be too short by leaving out critical
story elements.
So remember, you're not trying to be concise.
You're trying to communicate.

--- Want People Say They Want Is Not Necessarily What They Want ---

If you ask people what sort of a communicator do they want?
What sort of a speaker they want?
They will tell you, oh, we want someone direct.
We don't want someone coming here telling us a bunch of war stories.
We want someone to just give us the meat, give us the substance, be as direct as possible.
Yeah, well, I hear that.
I don't believe it.
Now, if you look at polls, polls will also tell you that voters hate any candidate who uses negative
ads will vote against candidates using negative ads.
And yet the candidate who uses the most negative ads often wins in political campaigns.
And my apologies to those of you in countries outside the US.
I realize that's mostly a US reference because so many countries don't allow paid political TV ads.
My point is what people say they want and what they want are often different things.
I can say I want to lose £30 and eat nothing but fresh fruit and vegetables.
And yet you might catch me later eating an ice cream bar.
Why is that?
It's because you can't always listen to what people say.
You have to listen to what actually works on them and what what they do.
And that's the issue with stories is it's not direct.
Telling a story is less direct than just telling somebody what to do or telling somebody what the point
is.
The beauty of it is it's effective because it's not direct.
It allows people to visualize your point.
It allows them to think about it and quite often allows them to think that the idea from your story
is actually their own idea.
That is the beauty of stories.
That is the beauty of indirect communication.

--- Order Matters ---

Sequencing is critically important when telling stories like this.
If you're baking a cake and you're following a recipe, it wouldn't taste very good.
If you turn the oven on long after you have put all the ingredients in the oven and pulled it out.
There's certain things that have to be done at certain times, otherwise you're not going to bake a
cake.
It's exactly the same thing with a story if you don't introduce the characters first.
Tell us what the problem is.
We're not going to care about the conflict or the dialogue or the resolution or the or the principle
to be learned from the story.
So you have to have the sequencing laid out so that it makes sense.
This is where it's good to practice on video, test, test on others.
Are they following you?
Sometimes you can get so close to a story you can leave out important details.
It still makes sense to you.
Doesn't make sense to anyone else.

--- Make Your Hero Relatable ---

Your chief character in your story needs to be a hero at some level to your audience.
Your audience needs to be able to relate to your hero, relate to the primary character in your story.
But you've got to be careful about this.
Sometimes you can make yourself the hero of the story.
If you reveal enough about your weaknesses, your flaws, and you don't make it sound like you're trying
to be perfect and you're Superman or Superwoman.
But most of the time when you're telling stories, someone else needs to be the hero.
And that way the audience can look up to that person.
They're not always looking up to you.
It'll be much more effective than just talking about yourself.

--- Stories Make Advice Less Annoying ---

Another huge advantage of telling stories.
When you're giving people advice, a story makes the advice go down easier.
It doesn't seem as ham fisted, doesn't seem like you're the dictator just telling them what to do.
That's why parents often like to tell stories to their children.
It's not as annoying to the audience as you're saying.
Do what I tell you.
So if you have customers, clients, prospects, employees, I'm not suggesting you treat them like
children or you think of them as children, but by telling a story, the advice is going to go down
so much easier.
Rather than telling someone, Hey, what you're doing is stupid, it's really going to destroy your
career.
You can talk about someone else, you know, who was in a similar situation, what their problem was,
how they resolved it, and why this was a big issue.
Let the first person be able to relate to it.
Mm That's a little bit similar to me.
Much more effective than just straightforward giving people advice.

--- Leave People Feeling Up About Something ---

Your stories most of the time.
Not all the time, but most of the time need to have a happy ending.
If you want people to be receptive to you, your ideas, whatever it is you're advocating or selling
or trying to persuade them on, they need to feel up after hearing you.
Now you may be talking about some critical problem, a crisis, a tragedy of sorts, but there needs
to be a positive aspect of what can happen or did happen over here and how you intend to duplicate it
over here.
Just if they support you or vote for you or give you money.
So I don't want to suggest that it's impossible to ever talk about negatives or problems, but certainly
the first story you tell in a presentation, the last story, the there needs to be some kind of positive
ending from the story, some positive message that sticks with people, that makes them feel good about
what it is you are trying to do, even if what you're trying to do involves horrible tragedy.

--- The Motivation of Your Hero ---

What motivates the hero in your story and does your hero have some reluctance?
Now, again, when I say hero, I just mean the main person.
And it could be you in your story who does something that people can relate to and see.
This ended up being positive.
It doesn't mean they have to slay dragons or rescue men or women in distress, but there's got to be
some nuance there if you really want to be effective.
Do they have nagging doubts?
Are they being pushed into something that isn't a natural fit with their skills and their interest?
Share this with your audience and your hero will be more interesting, more credible, and more believable
to your audience.

--- What do All Great TED Talks have ---

This section is going to cover everything you need to know about telling stories for TEDx talks.
Now, if you're a regular watcher of the TEDx Talk series, you know that pretty much all of the presentations
have stories embedded.
And if you look at the top ten, the top 20 TEDx speeches of all time, they all have incredibly compelling
stories, typically personal stories.
Now, everything we've said so far in this course applies to the stories you should tell in your TEDx
talk as well, or your TEDx talk.
Here's the difference and I go through this in more detail in this section.
When it comes to a TEDx talk, you really have to have one interesting, useful idea to people where
they're scratching their head saying, You know what?
I really never thought of it quite like that before.
There's got to be some idea that's truly beneficial to the world.
So it can't just be.
On why your engineering firm is a little bit better than a competitor.
It's got to be a bigger issue than that.
It has to deal with an issue that affects all of humankind.
That's the biggest difference when it comes to a TEDx talk.
And that's frankly why most people don't get to deliver Ted Talks or TEDx talks is they simply don't
have an interesting enough idea that speaks beyond their own situation or their own company, their
own organization.
I hope you find this section useful.
Certainly if you aspire to speak to TEDx audiences or Ted audiences, this section will be crucial for
you.

--- Great Writers Read Great Writers ---

If you ever talked to a lot of great writers, the one thing you'll find in common, they pretty much
all say this is that they like to read other great writings.
They read the classics.
They read other people they respect who are currently writing.
Doesn't matter if it's fiction, non-fiction.
People who pride themselves in their ability to craft words, to be a great writer, spend a lot of
their time reading and they read for pleasure.
They read for fun, and they read for work.
That's how they get better.
It's not because they're stealing ideas, but it's motivating them.
It's holding them to higher standards.
This idea here with a little twist or wrinkle can work in something they're writing.
It's an essential part of being a great writer.
Speaking is no different, But remember, the final output when you're speaking is not the text of your
speech for a history book.
The final product is you actually speaking, and that's why it's all well and good to read books about
speaking.
And I've read probably a thousand and I've written half a dozen.
But at some point you need to put the books aside and you need to spend some time on a regular basis
watching speakers.
Now, if you want to speak at Ted, I would certainly recommend that you watch a lot of Ted speakers.
There are thousands of them now.
You may find certain categories of science or maybe music that you're not interested in.
The beauty of Ted is it's organized by sections and a lot of different ways you can focus on just what
you're interested in.
But I would advise you go beyond your interests.
Sometimes you can learn even more about someone's speaking skills, their stagecraft techniques.
If you're not even as interested in their subject matter, you can actually focus on some of these other
things they're doing.
So I would advise you to do what I do is try to get a broad swath of speakers in your video viewing
diet the same way you may read New York Times or Wall Street Journal regularly.
Find some point in the week or even the day when you're watching videos of people speaking.
Now, you don't have to just rely on Ted.
There are a lot of great places for speaking videos, and YouTube has at this point hundreds of millions
of them.
The beauty of Ted, though, is they've done a great job of curating before anyone ever gets on video,
they've eliminated boring, awful speakers.
So that's why I like going to Ted and that I know I'm not going to be watching for 30s and have to think,
Oh, this is really boring, Awful.
The audio quality is awful.
This person's reading, I don't have to worry about that.
So that is the beauty of Ted.
But wherever you watch speakers, you may just want to watch stand up comedy on Netflix.
That's a type of speaking.
And good comedians are by definition, great public speakers, even though you might not think of it
that way.
I do recommend, if you want to be a Ted speaker and if just generally you want to get better and better
and better at speaking, you need to watch speakers.
You may find there's someone in particular you really like.
You can then follow them, follow their blog, find out every time they speak, then subscribe to their
YouTube channel so you can watch all of their speeches.
And this way you can develop stronger tastes.
Again, you're not out to mimic someone, but if you surround yourself by great speakers and you're
watching great speakers all the time, some of it just rubs off.
If you watch speaker after speaker after speaker move around looking at the audience, not staring at
notes and not using boring bullet point slides, it's going to be harder for you to just out of the
blue say, Oh, I got to give a speech, let me read a bunch of boring bullet points.
It's not going to occur to you because your standards will be elevated.
That's true.
That's why people like to read good writing.
It's also why good speakers like to watch good speakers.
So I would urge you find some place, put it on your calendar if you have to, or if you're used to
just watching sitcoms every Thursday night for two hours.
How about at least the first half an hour of that break?
Finding a good, entertaining speaker?

--- Apply to Speak at TED ---

So we come to the end of this course on how to be a TEDx speaker, how to speak like TEDx speakers.
I hope you've learned some tips if you're ready to take it to the next step.
Below in the description is how you apply.
Now take note.
They ask for other people to nominate you.
I don't really take kindly to someone who has to nominate themselves, but if you are a great speaker
and you have a great subject, a truly good idea that needs to spread and you're a good speaker, then
you could certainly ask people to nominate you.
There's nothing wrong with that.
However, I hope after our time together, you're seeing sort of the bigger picture.
The big picture is not about whether you speak at TEDx.
The big picture is about you speaking on a regular basis and more and more compelling ways reaching
broader audiences.
And if you follow these tips, ultimately it's not going to matter if you speak to TEDx or not, you're
going to be a better and better speaker.
You're going to be asked to speak at more places and you are going to reach more people through the
power of your voice.
The power of your ideas will get out there.
And that's ultimately what it's all about.
Your own good ideas can spread.
Good luck.

--- Your Questions Are Answered Here ---

In this section, I'm going to cover frequently asked questions.
Remember, if you don't see the question you're concerned with answered right here, you can just type
in the Q&amp;A section, your question and I will answer you.
If you want to see a longer, more direct video response, you can always go to my YouTube channel and
post a question there.
You can also check the library of videos on that YouTube channel.
It's a companion channel to this particular course.
It's YouTube.com slash media training and it has thousands and thousands of videos answering your questions
on how to deliver stories, how to do a better job with public speaking and speaking to the media.
So I'm here for you, whatever your question is related to speaking.
Again, if you don't see the answer already in the course, type the question in here and I'll answer
you personally, it's not an intern.
I'll answer you personally and directly.

--- How Long Should a Story Be ---

How long should a story be?
The answer is really as long as it takes.
Most people make two mistakes.
They either put in way too many details that confuse people or they're too brief and they don't bring
in actual dialogue and describe their characters in detail.
If you're going on for ten minutes, chances are that's too long.
If you finished your story in 15 seconds, chances are you don't really have all the elements of the
story.
Focus first and foremost on Have you really explained what happened?
Have you introduced characters?
Have you established the problem?
Have you recounted the conversation?
The dialogue?
Have you talked about how you felt the characters felt?
Did you resolve some problem?
And is there a lesson from this?
Focus on that and the time will typically take care of itself.

--- What Is the Best Way to Start a Story ---

What's the best way to start a story?
Just dive right in.
Don't say Let me tell you a story.
Don't tell me out today.
I want to talk about blah, blah, blah.
Just hop in.
You don't have to say thank you.
Good morning or any of that.
Just hop right in to the story.
Establish the setting that is the best way for many reasons.
It's not how most speakers start, although the good ones do, and it's devoid of all the throat clearing
cliches most people use when they start a presentation.

--- Can You Make Up a Story ---

Can you make up a story?
You could, but chances are that's just much harder to do than telling a real story about a real conversation
you had with a real person about a real problem.
So I don't recommend making up stories that's different from retelling a story that you've heard from
a third party or someone else told you about it.
But just to make up something about a fictitious client having a fictitious conversation, that's going
to be harder for you to say.
And remember, it's also going to be harder for your audience because chances are you're going to leave
things out.
So I don't recommend making up stories.
Now, can you blend together a couple of different scenarios and stories and a couple of different clients
and make it a composite?
Yeah, you can do that, but more often it's easier to just focus on one real person, one real story.

--- Should You Memorize a Story ---

Should you memorize your story?
This is a little bit complicated.
Certainly, if you are a world renowned, famed keynote speaker and you're all about the power of your
story and bringing people to tears, at that point, it becomes almost like a Broadway performance.
Speakers at that level do memorize.
This course is primarily for business people who want to use stories to communicate more effectively
their business goals, their professional goals, their civic goals.
In that case, I do not recommend that you memorize stories.
I'll be honest with you.
I don't memorize my stories.
I tell them a little bit differently each time, but they're still effective because I retain the elements.
I have the same basic elements in the story.
It's easier for me.
It's easier for the audience.
So my recommendation, unless you're a highly paid professional keynote speaker or you're trying to
do something with high levels of theatricality, I do not recommend memorizing because it's just really
hard and it only takes one little glitch and then all of a sudden it's obvious to everyone, Oh, I
forgot what I was trying to memorize.
And it's awkward for everyone.

--- How Do You Remember Your Stories ---

How do you remember what stories to use in a presentation?
Well, my advice is don't try to remember.
That's extra work.
When you're speaking in front of people, you're feeling stress.
And when your body is feeling stressed, your brain is shutting down because your body is pulsating
with adrenaline and it's telling you, get ready to run.
That's the worst time to put extra stress on your memory.
So my recommendation is cheat.
I just use a simple cheat sheet.
Here's a checklist.
This has 23 elements.
These are 23 stories and points.
If I'm going to give an hour long keynote speech, I have several of these around the room.
I've made the font large enough so that I don't have to put any glasses on and off and do all that stuff.
And that way I don't have to remember anything.
I can just glance down at my notes from time to time and I know exactly what story to talk about next.

--- Is It Ever a Bad Idea to Tell a Story ---

Is never a bad idea to tell a story in a presentation.
In my professional opinion.
No, it's not.
As long as you are aware of your time constraints, what the audience's expectations are, and you match
those accordingly.
Again, I've never you heard me say this at the beginning of this course.
I've never heard anyone say about a speaker.
I hated the way that person gave us interesting, relevant stories today about points that are important
to us.
It's possible Someone could say that It's possible.
I've never heard it.
So I don't think you can go wrong by telling a story.
Does that mean every story is going to be great?
No, that's not what I said.

--- Can a Story Backfire ---

Is it possible for stories to hurt you with the audience to backfire?
Absolutely.
Of course it's possible.
Stories are not a panacea.
If you pick a horrible story that your audience doesn't like or they're offended by or it doesn't resonate,
it's not going to help you at all, It can, in fact, damage your reputation.
If you're speaking to an international audience and people outside North America and you want to use
stories that all relate to American football, they're going to be looking at you like you're strange
and weird because you are strange and weird to them.
They have no idea what you're talking about.
If you're telling a story about something that is offensive to someone's religious, ethnic, philosophical
belief system, they're not going to focus on your message or later parts of your story.
They're just going to find you an offensive human being.
So, of course, it's possible for stories to backfire and to hurt you.
But that doesn't mean the problem is with stories.
That means you didn't select the right stories and you didn't test them in advance with the right sorts
of audiences.

--- What Is the Maximum Number of Stories You Can Use ---

What's the most number of stories you could or should tell in a presentation?
I want to step back a moment from that question and ask a different question of you.
Think of the best speaker you've ever seen.
How many messages do you remember?
You heard me talk about this earlier in the course.
I've asked that question for years.
No one's ever had more than five messages they remember from their top speaker.
So if you have extra time, my recommendation is use additional stories to flesh out your main points.
Whether you have one point, two, three, 4 or 5, But don't say, Well, I told three stories.
That's the most you can tell.
Now let me just go on and dump data for the next hour.
It's not how the human brain processes information, so I don't think there is any upper limit of stories.
Although if you're telling 100 stories in ten minutes, chances are you're racing through them.
You're not really putting in all the story elements.
So first and foremost, focus on what it is you want your audience to do.
Then focus on the messages you want them to remember.
Then come up with at least one powerful, interesting, memorable story for each message.
And then if you have time, add additional stories to flesh out your messages.
That's the structure I find helps most people prepare their presentations in the most effective manner.

--- Ask Your Questions Anytime ---

Quick note.
Most of you in this course watching this now have lifetime access to this course, which means you can
go through this course today, six years from now, a question pop in your head about public speaking
and communicating by telling stories in your speeches and presentations.
You can still come right back here and post your question in the Q&amp;A section.
I am here for you.
This is the kind of thing I actually enjoy.
I've devoted my life to this.
I certainly hope to be here six years from now.
I hope I didn't jinx myself.
But as long as you see this course, feel free to post your questions about any aspect of storytelling.

--- Demonstration Time ---

In this section, I'm going to share a lot of my own personal stories.
These are stories that I use in keynote speeches all over the globe and in training workshops, and
they're all based on reality.
They're all true.
They all happen to me.
And these are stories I've collected from living a life, conducting public speaking, training, storytelling
workshops, seminars in more than 30 countries over the last 30 years.
Hope you enjoy them.
And if you don't enjoy them, I hope you at least can see there's a process here that will help you
make ideas become more understandable and more memorable.
So I'm not suggesting you have to watch every single one.
You may want to pick and choose, sample a few, enjoy and take away what you will.

--- A Masterclass in Storytelling ---

In this section of the course I practice what I preach.
I tell stories to illustrate key points.
Now, there are a lot of stories here in each story.
Each video you're going to see.
There's only one idea I'm trying to convey.
I'd recommend that you look at the title carefully.
Look at the point I'm trying to convey.
If you feel like you've already got the point or you don't care about it, don't watch it.
Not everyone wants to see every single story in your life about what happened to you.
And I realize not all of you want to see every single story that's happened to me.
These are all of the most interesting stories, at least to me, that have happened throughout my career
that I think are relevant to people who are trying to communicate more effectively.
Now, I'm not just rambling on and on about my life and telling you find interesting things that happen
to me.
All of these stories are about a point that I think are going to be important, interesting or useful
to people who are trying to build their communication skills.
I state at the end of the story what the point was.
I'm hoping you got it before that.
But I tell you what the point was to drive it home further.
If you are incredibly interested in me and the idea of being a public speaking trainer or media trainer,
I think you'll find this section particularly interesting if you're not interested in me.
And that's okay.
And you're here just to get the basic skills you need to be great at your presentation skills.
You might want to skip all of this.
All I ask is make sure that when you're coming up with your own presentation, don't skip the storytelling
part.
As you've heard me say at many places throughout this course, the most important part of being a great
presenter, the strongest presentation skill is the ability to illustrate key points with interesting,
memorable, relevant stories.
So let's hop in.
If you can join me, go to the next video if you want to go to the whole next section.
I'm not offended.
Be my guest.

--- Presenting the WRONG Way to the Media ---

Nobody's born knowing naturally how to speak to the news media.
But some people do learn at an early age.
When I was in my 20s, I was a press spokesperson for a member of Congress.
And I remember one day in the office there on Capitol Hill, these majestic buildings are in.
It's really all inspiring.
The phone rings and it's a reporter from Roll Call.
One of the local newspapers that that follows all the policies and all the legislation on Capitol Hill.
And the reporter says, I'm doing a story on your boss's legislation.
H.R. 1400, H.R. 1400 is unclear.
I don't understand it, and I'm hoping you could clear it up.
I said, Sam, I'm happy to.
You're right.
H.R. 1400 is unclear.
It's being cleared up in committee.
And when it does, you'll see it does X and it does Y.
And I explained it to him.
The reporter was incredibly friendly, polite, nice.
Oh, TJ, thank you so much.
Really appreciate your professionalism.
Thanks for getting back to me right away, answering my questions.
Appreciate it.
Hung up the phone, kind of puffed out my chest, thinking, Wow, I am good at this.
That reporter's happy, thinks I'm great, and I go home that night and I go home and I pack my suitcase
because I'm so excited.
I'm working for a Hawaiian member of Congress and I'm about to fly to Hawaii the next day.
I can't wait.
My whole life I've seen images of Hawaii, the beautiful sunsets and the volcanoes.
So I packed my suntan lotion, my Hawaiian shirt, my sunglasses.
I walk into the Capitol the next day, put my suitcase down.
They're on my desk as roll call.
Okay.
They're on the front page.
Is the story about this legislation.
Oh, there's my name.
According to press spokesperson TJ Walker, quote, H.R. 1400 is unclear.
On page C 27.
This was before the Internet.
It was actual paper.
On page C 27, there were more quotes for me, nothing particularly bad or critical.
I'm explaining the details.
But the only quote on the front page is me saying my bosses legislation was unclear.
A few minutes pass, the buzzer rings on my phone.
It's the chief of staff.
TJ, I want you to come on into the office.
Going to the chief of staff's office.
He says, T.J., I got good news and I got bad news.
The good news?
You're all packed.
The bad news?
You're not going to Hawaii.
You're not going anywhere.
You're fired.
Get out of here.
Kicked out.
Fired that day.
What had I done wrong?
Well, I committed the cardinal blunder of using the reporter's words.
I used the reporter's negative words.
Unclear.
Therefore, I attacked my own boss's legislation.
When you call something unclear, it's a form of an attack.
An attack is one of the ten sound bite elements.
For any of you who've been in my media training courses, you'll know that.
So I answered the wrong way.
I reacted.
I used the reporter's words.
I used negative words.
It's kind of like when a politician gets caught saying I am not a crook.
Well, what's the only quote going to be?
I am not a crook.
That wasn't the nastiest criticism.
It wasn't harsh, mean, but it was still criticism of my boss.
Now, can I claim that I was misquoted?
Well, no, I actually said it.
Can I claim that I was quoted out of context?
I could, but nobody cares because every quote is out of context.
You can never complain about being quoted out of the context when you are presenting your ideas to the
media.
So I deserve that quote.
And I got what was coming to me.
Smart people learn from, not their own mistakes, other people's mistakes.
So the reason I tell this to you today is so that you don't learn the hard way and lose your job like
I do, and you actually protect yourself so that you know how to answer questions correctly in a news
media interview.
Okay, so what did I just do in that story there?
I let people know and I use this story when I'm conducting typically a day long media training course.
I use this story for several reasons.
Number one, I want people to know I'm not just some natural born genius that they can't relate to.
I mean, if you go to basketball camp from Michael Jordan, he may tell you some good things, but at
some level you're thinking, well, I'm not Michael Jordan.
I can't just sail three feet above the rim and slam it down.
It's almost like his advice isn't worth as much because he has so many natural gifts.
I want people to realize I don't have any natural gifts.
I don't have some innate talent for this.
This is learned behavior.
And I tell them this for a couple of reasons.
I want them to realize that this is stuff I learned, therefore they can learn it too.
I also want them to realize there is a danger of talking to the media if you're prepared.
I also want them to know that there is a very specific danger of using a reporter's words back to them
in an interview.
So there's actually a couple of lessons there.
That's why I use this story.

--- Clintonian Eye Contact ---

When it comes to delivering presentations.
There's basically three types of eye contact.
There's the bottom 1% of speakers.
They are staring at the floor or reading their notes, completely ignoring you or looking at their bullet
points on a slide, completely ignoring the audio.
That's the bottom 1% of speakers.
Then there is sort of another 98.999% of speakers there doing some version of the windshield wiper.
They're looking at the room the whole time.
It might be fast going back and forth.
It might be slow, but they're never really looking at you.
They're never really looking at one person at a time.
They're looking at the group.
And because of that, the audience feels anonymous.
That also means I can pull out their cell phones because they don't feel like you're really looking
at them if you're the speaker.
That's not what the best speakers in the world do.
And have you ever seen Bill Clinton speak in person?
Now, most fair minded observers forget the politics and the other stuff most fair minded people would
say of well known figures in the English speaking world in the last 25 years.
30 years.
He's one of the best public speakers.
Even his enemies would concede that.
Well, one of my colleagues, one of my trainers used to work with him just as a low level campaign
assistant.
They were out together.
It was re-election time during the re-election campaign.
It'd been the end of a long day of campaigning.
They're sitting around a table having a beer.
Sleeves are rolled up playing some cards.
And my guy Andy turned to him and said, Mr. President, you nailed that speech today.
You had 10,000 people in the palm of your hand.
How did you do it?
And President Clinton turned to Andy and said, Andy's very simple.
I didn't speak to 10,000 people today.
I picked one person in the audience and I had a private one on one conversation with that person for
a full thought.
Then I went to another person in the audience and I really looked at that person in the eyes.
Now, it's not a long stare.
It's only a couple of sentences.
And then I go to another person in the audience and do this.
And here's the thing, Andy.
You're not doing it in a systematic way.
You're mixing it up.
But when I look right at someone, they feel like, wow, the president is speaking directly to me.
The other thing is, it's easier for me because this is closer to a one on one conversation because
I'm now just looking at one person.
Now, the beauty of this technique is that even people I'm not looking at over there, they see me,
my head is steady, I'm not doing this kind of thing.
So I look much steadier.
But here's the thing, Andy.
This works.
Even when I have bright lights in my eyes, I'm on a stage and I can't see the audience.
I can look 50ft out that way in a dark spot, and the 15 people in that area will all feel like, wow.
He's really speaking to me.
And that's how you make a much stronger connection and you're doing the whole room.
You're not just doing it friendly faces or the decision makers.
You're really mixing it up.
And that's how the best speakers use eye contact.
This works for anyone.
You can be in a room of 20 people.
If it's a five minute conversation, you can look at each person in the eye for five, six seconds,
couple sentences.
Every person in the room.
You can give eye contact several times.
They'll feel like you're caring about them, you're listening to them.
So that is how the best speakers use eye contact.
Okay, so what did I do there?
I'm trying to convey a purely technical speech.
Three types of eye contact.
Bottom 1% is just ignoring the audience.
Next, 98.9%.
Windshield wiper top 0.1%.
Holding eye contact for a full thought.
Four, five, six seconds and then moving on.
Purely technical information.
But I illustrated it with a story.
And people remember it.
Now, in this case, it's a second hand story.
I wasn't there, but.
This was told to me by my colleague Andy, and he was there.
So preferably what I try to do most of the time, what I advise you to do most of the time tell stories
where you're actually there talking to someone, but sometimes there's just something too good you can't
pass up and you can retell a story second hand and it still works.

--- My Zombie Client ---

What's the problem with using beta blockers if you're nervous about giving a presentation?
Beta blockers are drugs that they don't make you high or giddy like marijuana or alcohol or anything,
but they do reduce your ability to get stressed.
They do relax you.
So at first blush, it seems like it might be a good idea to use them.
I was in Chicago working with a well known mutual fund manager.
We'll call her Sarah.
She said, TJ, I'm very nervous about going on CNBC tomorrow.
I think I'm going to take a beta blocker.
I said, Please don't.
We're going to rehearse here again and again until you like how you're coming across.
And we did rehearse.
We did make some progress, but she still decided to take the beta blocker.
And this was more than 15 years ago, but I still remember the image.
It's so powerful.
I saw her the next day on CNBC and she was like this.
Yes.
I'd like to tell you about the success of our mutual fund and why our value investing is so successful.
She looked and sounded like a zombie.
Very low energy monotone.
No movement in her body.
So.
Yeah, the drug worked.
She was more relaxed.
But it brought her performance level down to the point where she looked scared, uncomfortable, nervous,
untrustworthy, unbelievable.
Now she's still very successful.
Don't feel sorry for her, but it just drove home for me this basic principle that it's not about you
feeling comfortable.
It's how you come across to your audience and her case.
Hundreds of thousands of people were watching that.
And that's really the lesson here.
Everything you do getting ready for a presentation has to be about how it makes you come across your
best to your audience, not just how you feel.
Okay, so why do I tell that story?
I tell that story because I do believe that it's simply not a good idea for people to use beta blockers
just because they're nervous about giving a presentation.
Now, if you're on them for other reasons or you're on any other kind of drugs and your doctor is telling
you you have to be on them, don't listen to me.
I'm not a doctor and I'm not your psychiatrist.
I'm talking about the specific situation where you don't normally use any drugs.
And someone says, Oh, take a beta blocker, you'll be relaxed before you give this big speech or before
you give this interview.
To me, that's a huge, huge danger sign.
If you're nervous, you're not going to come across your best.
That means you need to practice more on video, not take drugs.

--- Teaching Clients NOT to Act ---

I fly in to Houston to a hospital to work with a surgeon there.
I walk into the room in the hospital and there's this giant man.
Before he was a surgeon.
He was a professional football player, actually was a part of a Super Bowl winning team.
And now he is a bone surgeon.
Works on athletes all over the world and is about to try to become an ESPN commentator and host of his
own show on Fox Sports.
So he's come to me to be trained on how to communicate more effectively to the media.
Hi, Mark.
Nice to meet you.
TJ, Great to meet you.
Sit down.
I put the camera on.
I ask him questions, and right away he does this.
He tightens his whole body up, answers the questions in a smart, rational, logical, linear way.
Factually, it's all.
This is a very bright guy.
Had gone to Harvard Medical School.
His information was 100% on target.
He clearly knew his stuff and he experienced it.
He had a lot of surgeries himself being in that line of work so he could connect with people intellectually
and emotionally.
So we did the interview.
I turned the light off, dropped the mic on the floor.
Lean back and say, Hey, Mark.
So tell me, how did that feel?
Instantly came alive.
Oh, TJ, I felt uncomfortable.
That wasn't very good.
I want to do it again.
I'm glad.
He was incredibly animated.
His hands were moving, his face were.
Was moving.
Everything was moving.
His voice had more volume, more energy.
I said, okay, now it's time to review.
I played the tape.
Stopped it at the end of the formal interview.
So what did you think?
He said, T.J., I don't know.
The facts were there, but I just seemed stiff.
Uncomfortable.
Little frozen.
Nervous.
I said, Well, Mark, you may have a point.
You did a number of things.
Well, you had good answers, but.
Tell me, Mark, how would you like to see somebody a lot better than you?
More comfortable, more confident, more engaging, more charismatic.
Would you like a role model like that?
He said, Oh, TJ, definitely.
He thought I was going to show him Terry Bradshaw or some other famous broadcaster.
Instead.
I just hit play again.
Now we're watching the part of the video where he didn't realize I was interviewing him.
Just because I turn the light off, drop the mic didn't mean I couldn't record.
Now, he could see his natural movement.
His hands were moving, his face was moving.
His body was moving.
His voice had warmth to it.
It had variation.
He laughed.
But when it was over, he said, That's the guy I want to be.
D.J., you're a genius.
Here's the reality for this doctor.
And in fact, almost all the people I work with.
There's no genius in me that teaches them new skills.
How to act for the camera.
What I teach people is to stop acting.
What Marc learned at that moment was his problem was not that he needed to learn some new way of acting
on camera.
He needed to stop acting.
He needed to stop acting scared.
That's the problem most people have is they get in front of a camera to practice a presentation or a
media interview, and they start acting.
They start acting scared.
So when I get together to help people.
Get better at their presentations, whether they're presenting to the media or giving speeches or PowerPoints.
So much of it is about teaching them to stop acting.
I don't teach them to act.
I teach them to stop acting, to stop acting scared, and to simply talk the way they do when they're
comfortable, relaxed, sitting down, talking to one person.
Okay.
So why did I tell that story?
The message of the story was that I'm not your guru here to teach you a whole new way of talking when
you're giving a presentation.
You don't need a whole new way of learning what to do with your hands.
You already know what to do.
That makes it much easier.
You just have to stop freezing yourself.
You have to stop acting scared.
Now, I do this in pretty much every live media training and presentation skills training workshop I
do all over the world.
I do it first thing in the morning when I'm working with someone, and it's a huge eye opening experience
for people because it really makes them see the task at hand as attainable because it's no longer scary
when you've already seen yourself do it well.
And that's why I tell the story.
If I'm giving a speech on this subject, is I want people to realize this isn't some impossible new
task.
It's also not as widely complicated and time consuming as learning how to play the violin from scratch
or learning how to be a scratch golfer.
It's relatively easy if you just copy yourself.
I want people to have a new role model for themselves when they are learning how to give presentations
for live audiences and speeches.
The role model can't be me.
It needs to be themselves.
And that's the beauty of this story.
It's also why this technique works in real trainings when it's face to face.

--- Surrounded by Machine Guns! ---

I'll never forget the first time I was in Eastern Europe.
I was in a former Soviet bloc country and I was in an old dictator's palace.
I was working with a prime minister.
There was no longer Soviet dictatorship, but democracy had not been around that long.
I was working with the prime minister, helping him prepare his speeches, his presentations.
And we're in this dictator's palace surrounded by armed guards with big machine guns.
It's a beautiful palace, beautiful lakes, isolated area.
And the prime minister says to me, TJ, do you mind if I give the speech in my native language?
I said, okay, we'll record it.
We'll look at it.
So he stands up.
He proceeds to read his speech, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
And I'm recording the whole thing.
We play it back.
And then he turns to me, he says, Well, what did you think?
Now, the truth was, I thought it was incredibly boring, monotone, dull, dry.
It wasn't the fact that I didn't understand the language.
It just.
Nothing was moving but his lips.
No eye contact.
Nothing.
And it was monotone.
But I'm a little bit nervous.
I wanted to tell him it's incredibly boring, but I'm in Eastern Europe.
I don't know anyone.
I don't know where the embassy is.
I'm surrounded by guys with machine guns.
But I finally said, you know what?
He's paying me a bunch of money to be here and coach him.
I'll give him my honest opinion.
So I said, Mr. Prime Minister, I have no idea what you said, but with all due respect, you're bored
the heck out of me.
He looked at me, his eyes got big.
He sort of glowered.
Then he looked at the video.
He looked back at me and said, You're right, it's incredibly boring.
I hate it.
And he took the speech that his staff had worked on for months and tore it up, bolted up, threw it
on the trash can.
I said, okay, Mr. Prime Minister, now it's time to get to work.
We rolled up our sleeves, got a clean sheet of paper and said, Let's brainstorm on every message you
really want the voters, your citizens to know on this topic.
We brainstormed the messages.
I said, Let's narrow it down to the top five.
Now give me a story for each one.
Now come up with a simple one pager, one page.
Outline your five points a story for each.
Let's give this speech again.
He stood up.
He spoke.
I recorded it.
We watched it.
As soon as it was done, he turned to me and says, My God, you're a genius.
I love it.
Now.
Truth is, I'm not a genius.
I didn't do anything brilliant.
I just got him to stop reading.
It's incredibly boring to read.
Now, you may be a prime minister, you may be a CEO, you might be a student in the 10th grade.
It doesn't really matter if you have to read a speech and it's a boring data dump and you're not looking
at people, chances are it's not going to work out very well.
You're going to bore people far better off to do what this Prime Minister did.
What I get most of my clients to do, which is let's forget with the whole written script, let's narrow
it down to five ideas, a story for each one and talk.
Okay, so what's the point of this story?
The point is, don't read a speech.
Narrow your messages down to a handful.
Have a story for each one, and you'll actually love what you see.
That's the point of the story.
Now, there are some other little messages I want to send there.
I do find it helps my credibility when my clients know that I've trained all over the world.
There's a little bit of excitement there and drama that makes it more interesting, makes them more
comfortable knowing.
I've dealt with people in a lot of different areas, but it also, I think, makes me come across humble
because I admit it's not that I'm some brilliant expert that magically converted this guy into a great
speaker.
I just got him to tear up his script and to speak using simple notes.
So that's the main message.
It works for him and it frankly works for almost anyone.
Get rid of the whole written 20 page speech that you're reading.
Work from a single sheet of notes with stories.

--- The Crying Beauty Pageant Winner ---

If you don't love everything about how you look and sound when you watch yourself on video, you're
in good company.
In fact, the vast, vast majority of clients I work with in one on one trainings and live group trainings,
they don't like to do the homework of being recorded on video, and they certainly don't like it when
I put the camera on them during the live trainings.
Unfortunately, that's the only way anyone gets better at this.
Now sometimes I'll have people moan and groan and complain they hate their voice or they don't sound
like that.
They don't like something about how they look.
I've even had people cry, believe it or not.
I typically say the same thing to people when they are aghast at how they look.
I'll say relax.
Bill.
It's not that bad.
Nobody's 21 anymore.
After all, my hair is falling out.
I'm getting a double chin.
Get some wrinkles here.
No one's offering me $1 million to do the voice over for their TV, commercial or movie trailer.
So relax.
It's not that bad.
I once had a client.
She started crying when she saw herself on video and heard her voice.
She hated the way she sounded, hated the way she looked.
I was about to say what I normally do.
Relax.
Nobody's 21 anymore.
Only one problem.
She was 21.
And she was actually Miss Universe.
She still didn't like everything she saw.
I said, Jennifer, what's wrong?
I hate my voice.
I hate the way I look.
This didn't quite make sense to me.
And then I asked her, I said, You're Miss Universe.
Surely you've seen yourself many, many times on video TV cameras.
She's like, No, I just signed up for the local pageant a couple of months ago, one that quickly won
my national and here I am.
It's the first time I've ever seen myself on video.
So if you don't love every aspect of how you look on camera or sound, you're in good company.
Because she looked fine.
She sounded fine.
It's just for most of us, it's awkward.
It's weird hearing our own voice because we hear our own voice distorted through the bones in our own
skull.
We're used to seeing pictures of ourselves, selfies of ourselves, but we're not used to watching video
of ourselves.
So you got to relax.
The main thing is you got to do it enough so you get comfortable with it.
So what did I do there?
Why did I tell that story?
I tell that story because I want people to realize it's okay not to love everything about how you look
and sound.
If even someone who's 21 and a miss Universe doesn't like the way she looks and sounds.
Then probably you shouldn't worry too much about not being perfect either.
So I do that because I want people to be relaxed.
I'm typically telling that right before I'm getting people on camera.
Or if I'm asking them to.
So it makes the whole thing go down.
It is memorable to people.
They can relate because everyone has an image of sort of the perfect looking beauty pageant contestant
and winner.
So it puts strong images in people's minds and it makes them relax a little bit because they realize
I'm not alone.
Everybody feels awkward with it.
So that's what I'm after.
I want them to realize it's okay to feel awkward recording yourself.
It's okay to feel uncomfortable and not like it because that's how everybody feels.
That's the basic message.
Now, I will say about this story, I don't use it as often anymore because the cultural climate is
much more critical of beauty pageants, especially that one because of certain previous owners.
So I don't use that story as often because I don't want to muddy the waters.
There are stories that work at certain times in certain places but could backfire on you in other places.
So you constantly have to gauge not only is this story accurate, does it make the message come alive,
but is it going to play well or is it going to irritate people in other areas?
So I'm putting it out here for you because I'm giving you basically everything in this course.
I hope you're not offended by it.
I'm not endorsing or condemning beauty pageants.
I basically go where people call me to train them.

--- You Never Have to Lurk In the Shadows Again ---

I was training a bunch of engineers at an oil refinery in Saint Croix in the US Virgin Islands.
More than a decade ago.
And it was pretty much a typical training.
Five engineers, they each get up, they speak.
I record them, we play it back, we critique it, we do it again and again and again.
And people get more comfortable.
They get better.
They get more interesting.
They get to the point where they like what they see.
Well, I'll never forget what happened at the end of one of those trainings.
It's the end of the day, and I did what I always do.
At the end of the training.
I go around the room camera on and I just ask people to tell me, What did you get out of today, if
anything?
What did you learn?
And here was one engineer in the corner.
He was about 50 years old.
And I noticed.
Had a tear in his eye.
And he was very soft spoken and he was actually crying.
And what he told me was, T.J., what I learned today was I don't have to live in the shadows my whole
life.
I always thought I was someone who had to be behind the scenes.
I'm not a public speaker.
I'm not the front man.
I can't be the face of our organization or my unit.
I've got to be in the shadows.
You taught me today that.
I can speak as well as anyone.
And I got to tell you, it feels really good.
I'm excited in a way.
I've never been excited before about my job.
And I got to tell you, it warmed my heart to hear him say that, because people don't typically cry
at the end of my trainings.
But it did show that.
It touched him, it moved him, and it made him realize that this is not some skill you're born with
or you're not born with, or some people are lucky enough to have it.
It's just a technical skill that anyone can learn.
He learned by going through that day long in-person workshop.
You're learning by being in this online course right now.
So why did I tell that story?
Why do I use that?
I don't like to be overly dramatic and talk about people crying, but it really did happen.
I'm not making it up.
And I do think it shows people that.
You can learn and you can learn at any age.
This was not a young man.
Now, since I'm over 50, I don't think of 50 as old anymore.
I was below 50 at the time, but it's an important lesson you can learn at any time.
It's not something you're naturally born with.
I do believe too many people in this world feel like they can never be the top of an organization or
they can never run for office, or they can never start their own business because they can't stand
up in front of people and speak.
And that hurts me.
I want people to know.
Yeah, you can.
If you can learn all those other things of how to run a business or develop positions for political
campaign, you can get the speaking part down pretty easily.
That's my message.
Anyone can learn to speak and anyone can learn at any age.

--- The Fluttering Bird Flying to Nowhere ---

Я проводил занятия по обучению навыкам публичных выступлений в Сент. Круа на Виргинских островах на нефтеперерабатывающем заводе - довольно
приятная работа, которую можно получить, когда у тебя есть навыки презентации, тренер.
Я работал с пятью инженерами, и однажды один из инженеров встает, делает презентацию
в PowerPoint в середине презентации.
На одном из его слайдов в качестве спецэффекта по замыслу была маленькая птичка, которая порхала над ним.
И это было примерно в две тысячи четвертом или около того, так что спецэффекты не были настолько сложными
с PowerPoint или чем-то еще тогда, более 15 лет назад.
Но она затрепетала, я посмотрел на комнату, и все такие: "О, вау, круто".
Он закончил свою презентацию.
И я спрашивал людей, что они думают, они говорили, о, это было действительно круто, они говорили, как
ты это сделал?
Как вы добились такого спецэффекта, как произошел этот флаттер?
Я сказал: значит, мы все согласны, это было очень круто, да?
Это было интересно, правда?
Это был хороший спецэффект, верно.
Все согласились, что это действительно интересная вещь, которая была включена в слайды PowerPoint в его презентации.
Но потом мне пришлось стать скунсом на вечеринке.
Я сказал: "Хорошо".
Итак, кто может сказать мне, в чем был смысл этого слайда, этой анимации, этого спецэффекта, и что на
этом слайде вдруг все руки поднялись в воздух?
Пошел вниз.
Тогда я задал другой вопрос: кто может сказать мне что-нибудь из того, что сказал ваш коллега во время этой презентации?
Есть ответное сообщение?
Нет.
Никто и понятия не имел.
Так хорошо ли это - иметь спецэффекты?
Это так, если вы пытаетесь продать свою способность создавать спецэффекты для фильмов и других вещей, но это
не помогло этому конкретному инженеру рассказать о конкретных проблемах, которые он пытался решить в связи с тем, как
он перепроектировал элементы этой части нефтеперерабатывающего завода.
Это не сработало по определению.
Я проверил его.
Никто не может понять или запомнить послание.
Вот о чем я хочу, чтобы вы подумали, когда речь идет о спецэффектах.
Действительно ли это помогает вашей аудитории лучше понять ваше сообщение?
И помните свое послание?
Ну, если речь идет только о фейерверке бум, то это не поможет.
Сейчас эти спецэффекты стали намного лучше в PowerPoint и других программах, которые вы можете
использовать для создания презентаций, но все же, если кто-то хочет увидеть яркие спецэффекты, он может пойти и посмотреть
фильм, снятый в Голливуде, Болливуде или многих других местах.
В наши дни вы им не нужны.
Так что моя рекомендация.
Будьте проще, убедитесь, что у вас есть простые изображения, которые оживляют и запоминают ваше сообщение,
и не тратьте время на анимацию и спецэффекты, и это действительно хорошая причина, чтобы сделать это.
И это помогает людям понять и запомнить сообщение.
Ладно, зачем они рассказывают эту историю, она просто драматизирует то, что иногда мы думаем, что спецэффект
- это действительно круто, но на самом деле это пустая трата времени.
Большую часть времени я пытаюсь убедить людей не использовать спецэффекты в презентациях, потому что, по моему
опыту, в ста процентах случаев вы будете использовать это как предлог, чтобы не репетировать свою презентацию.
Лучше потратить время на репетицию презентации на видео, чтобы убедиться, что она хороша, чем спускаться
в эту черную дыру, потому что, начав с небольшого спецэффекта, даже такого простого,
как порхающая птичка, вы можете подправлять его в течение следующих двух, трех, четырех часов или двух-трех-четырех
дней.
А человеческая природа такова, какова она есть, вы используете это как оправдание, чтобы не практиковаться, не записывать на видео,
не проверять свою речь перед другими людьми.

--- 'I Can't do This' Becomes 'I Can Do This' ---

I was in midtown Manhattan in my TV training studio, my presentation skills training studio right across
from Bryant Park one day.
And I had a group of people at one of my public workshops.
One of them was a woman who'd been a political operative.
She'd had some low level positions in campaigns in the Clinton administration, wanted to become a pundit.
Came to the media training course, put the camera on her, asked her a few questions.
She started talking for about 10s all of a sudden stopped, looked down, stepped back.
Oh, I can't do this.
Practically in tears.
She just seemed overwhelmed.
And I had a little bitty camera and there were only a few people in the room.
She was nervous.
She was uncomfortable and was frankly not very good at it.
But I encourage her.
Come on, let's do it one more time.
Let's do it again.
We kept on doing it again and again.
She even came back for follow up training.
And before you know it, occasionally she was a guest commentator on the CNN, MSNBC, the Fox News
Channels of the World, the major TV news networks in the United States based in New York City.
She occasionally would get on and then she got better.
She got more comfortable.
She got on even more often and then more often.
And then one of the major news networks, in fact, the top rated news network, hired her as a professional
analyst.
So every single time she went on the air, she was paid.
And after a while, she was actually hosting in prime time substitute hosting for some of the biggest
names in the business.
And she was on that network for a decade.
She since moved on to other major networks and continues to have column books the whole bit.
She is a major, major pundit.
And it's simply because she decided she wanted to.
No one initially anointed her.
No one says, Oh, we want to hire you as a TV network.
Here's a bunch of money.
Go get trained.
She decided herself that she didn't want to just be behind the scenes, work in the back rooms, be
the behind the scenes operator.
She wanted to have a voice on national affairs and she wanted to speak out and she took action.
And it didn't matter that she wasn't very good at the beginning.
She just she kept at it and at it got professional training for me.
Others critique learned as she went and worked her way up the media food chain.
She did it.
You could too.
So why do I tell that story again?
There's this sense so many people have that when you see someone on TV, some famous pundit, some famous
talking head, that they're just naturally fantastic.
They've been that way their whole life.
They were the coolest kid in middle school and always articulate.
No.
This is something people can learn at virtually any age.
So that's why I tell that story.

--- My First Time on TV as 'The Fonz' ---

My very first media experience presenting on television occurred in 1975.
I was 12 years old in the seventh grade at Quail Hollow Junior High School in Charlotte, North Carolina.
And there was a 50 day contest, so everyone was encouraged to dress up like a character from the 50s.
Now, this was the 70s, so there was a very popular show called Happy Days where the characters were
based on the 1950s.
So I dressed up as a character named Fonzie, who was the big, cool guy.
I had my hair slicked back, dark hair greased back, a leather jacket.
I had a little more hair back then.
And sure enough, I won the Fonzie lookalike contest.
Well, my reward was going on a junior high school newscast the next day to deliver the morning announcements.
It wasn't CNN, it wasn't 60 Minutes, it wasn't the BBC, it wasn't Al Jazeera.
It wasn't some big, fancy, important press conference.
My first time was just talking about, you know, who's supposed to show up, not show up for homeroom
or band practice.
Was I great at it?
I don't know.
I was nervous.
I was scared, but I got through it.
And even though I was a shy kid, didn't speak that much, was not someone who was just naturally gifted
at telling stories and being the center of attention.
I did like it enough to not be scared, and soon after that I got interested in student government,
ran for homeroom, representative got active in student politics, and then the next year I ran for
student body president and became president of the student council.
Not that anyone else cared about it that much, but because of that, I then frequently went on the
morning newscast to talk about student government issues.
And have you sold enough magazine subscriptions or sold your candy yet for our fund raising?
Things like that.
And I also spoke in front of all the students, 1200 at the assemblies.
Now, most people would be scared to death of that, especially in junior high school.
But I had just a couple of opportunities to practice and get more comfortable with it, and the more
I did it, the easier it got.
And that's how I started off my career in front of the camera.
So why do I tell that story?
People do often ask me if they're going to spend a whole day with me in media training or presentation
training.
How did I get started?
So I have to tell them something.
And there's always the assumption that I was just born naturally with this gift of gab.
And I've been doing it perfectly all know.
It was sort of accidental.
It was sort of lucky I wasn't any better than anyone else.
I was nervous like everyone else.
So that's why I tell the story.
It just makes people feel a little more comfortable with me.
It gives them a sense of where I come from.
This is typically not one of the most important points I want to stress, but if I know people are curious
about it, it is something I delve into.
It just gives them a little more comfort, a sense of who I am.
It also makes me seem a little more down to earth because I'm kind of making fun of the fact that I
don't have thick black hair anymore.
That's why I tell the story.

--- Speaking To a Small Audience of 5,000 People ---

When I'm conducting a presentation skills workshop, I typically start off the same way I go around
the room, whether it's one on one or a group of people.
And I just ask people, Where are you comfortable speaking?
Where are you uncomfortable?
Well, one day I was in Delhi, in India, conducting a training with a member of parliament.
So I said, MP, where are you comfortable?
Where are you uncomfortable?
He said, TJ, I'm very comfortable speaking in front of small crowds, but I get really nervous and
uncomfortable speaking to large crowds.
And I said, MP Everyone says that that just means you're completely normal.
All of my clients, with few exceptions, say that they're uncomfortable speaking to large crowds.
He said, Yes, I'm very comfortable speaking to small crowds of 2000 people, but I get nervous when
I'm speaking to large crowds of, say, 100,000 people.
Well, I say.
Well, Mr. Gandy, that part is not completely normal.
But the basic principle is the same.
If you can speak to 2000 people comfortably, I can teach you how to speak to 100,000.
So the point is, all of this is relative.
Why do I tell this story?
It's because I find everyone in the world has some threshold where they're comfortable speaking and
then they're uncomfortable for some people.
If you're talking to one friend sitting down, you're comfortable.
If you have to stand up in front of two people, you're uncomfortable.
Some people are comfortable sitting at a conference room talking to ten colleagues, but they have to
stand and there's 20 now.
They're uncomfortable.
Now, in this particular case, this gentleman is used to speak from a very famous family and attracted
huge, huge, huge crowds.
Any he showed up in a community.
So there could literally be 100,000 people in a field waiting to hear him speak.
Well, it's only natural to be nervous about that, but how you prepare is exactly the same as how you
prepare for speaking to 20 people.
Or even two people.
So why do I tell that story?
I do it because I want people to realize they're like anybody else.
They're like famous people, successful people.
Everyone is nervous about speaking to large crowds.
It's just a matter of perspective.
The idea that someone would think speaking to 2000 people is a small crowd is kind of an eye opener
to some people.
And I just want people to realize that.
We're all in this together.
Everyone's nervous about something, and it's just about perspective.
If you change your perspective, if you tell yourself.
200 people is a large audience or a small audience.
It'll kind of become that for you.
And the key is learn basic principles, practice.
Know how to come across your best regardless of how big the audience is.
And then it really won't matter.

--- My Worst Presentation Ever! ---

Not every presentation you give is going to go smoothly.
One of my worst presentations happened more than a couple of decades ago.
I was going on a talk radio show in South Florida.
It was political season.
I was promoting a book and I liked a particular candidate.
I'll never forget.
I went on the show and I go into the studio and I couldn't help but notice my seat was very low to the
ground.
I had to sort of look up at the host glowering down at me.
He was in a real position of authority.
So we start the show.
He's very confrontational.
He's from a different political orientation than I'm in.
And as soon as I made the case for a particular candidate I liked, he basically yelled at me and said,
Mr. Walker, I have more respect for a Klansman than I do for you.
And I hadn't said anything that provocative.
I was shocked.
This host name was we'll call him Steve Stick.
And I continued to rebut.
I continue to say what I said.
I'd already been a talk show host myself at this point, a media trainer.
I wasn't lacking in confidence.
Next thing I know, he pulls the microphone out of my hand.
He's pulling it out.
I'm pulling it back.
I don't want to let this guy intimidate me.
Next thing I know, Mr. Stick reaches under the table and he pulls out a gun.
He points it at me.
Now, this is talk radio in South Florida.
Nobody can see this.
And he says, Now, do you see my point, Mr. Walker?
You know what I said at that point?
Not much.
It was more of a blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
I stammered something.
It was not pretty.
It was not my greatest talk show appearance.
The whole segment ended.
He theatrically kicked me out of the studio.
He's yelling at his producer, Call the police, call the I want this guy kicked out of my studio,
escorted off the property.
I quickly left, and it just so happened I had friends of mine recording the show that day and they
replayed that audio every time I went to their home for the next five years.
They thought it was so funny to see me embarrassed.
But here's the thing.
I actually went back to that station a couple of weeks later and was a guest on other host shows.
I went back a month later and I guest hosted on other shows on that station.
Now I still avoided Mr. Stick.
I still think he's crazy, but I didn't let that one opportunity make me give up or quit or think,
Oh my gosh, it's so humiliating.
I'll never do an interview again.
I'll never present on radio or TV again.
Now, I've done thousands of talk shows since then.
Why?
It's because I have a real commitment to speaking and presenting and communicating and helping other
people communicate.
I'm not going to let one bad opportunity scare me away.
Okay, so why did I tell that story?
I tell that story to impart.
Humanize me.
People want to see well, the all knowing trainer in front of them has had some tough times.
Also to let them realize, you know, everyone's going to have a bad day.
But the main reason I tell that story is I want people to know that I, as their trainer, have a real
commitment to this, a passion for this.
And so I tell this story when I'm doing a media training or presentation skills training, because I
want people to know I didn't just sort of stumble into this last week or it seemed like a hot topic
from a Google search or analytics two months ago.
I have been in this for decades.
I have some scars to prove it, and I have a real commitment to helping people speak, improve and to
communicate because I love communicating myself.
So that's the message.
For this particular story.
That's why I use it now.
It does happen to be memorable.
I'll have people come up to me sometimes five years later, since I was in a training with them and
they'll say, Hey, T.J., anyone pointing guns at you lately?
So it is memorable.
It's a little more emotional and dramatic than the typical story that people say, you know, is that
really true?
Yes, it was true.
It did happen to me and it was annoying and frankly, a little scary at the time.
But that's why it's easy to tell as a story now, more than two decades later, I'm just reliving the
actual experience.

--- I Was The Skunk At the Party ---

Context is key quite often when you are making presentations to the news media.
You can say something from your own office or a press conference or speech and maybe nobody cares.
But if you change the context slightly, all of a sudden you get massive attention.
A massive spotlight on your messages.
Case in point, several decades ago, I was a political consultant.
I was doing media training in public speaking training, but also doing general consulting for political
candidates.
I was working with a candidate running for mayor.
He was on the city council in Charlotte, North Carolina, my hometown.
And we found out that the next day he was going to have an opponent announce he was also running for
mayor.
And I thought, well, this seems like a good opportunity.
So we knew in advance for a day that this press conference was going to happen.
So I simply went to the opponent's press conference.
Now, I was polite.
I was well dressed.
I wasn't yelling, I wasn't disruptive.
I didn't have placards, banners that wasn't my style.
But after the candidate announced he was running, I then just walked up to all the TV reporters and
said I was a spokesperson for the other candidate, had a few words to say.
And I said what was good about my candidate and what we thought were the flaws of this announced candidate.
Before you knew it, I was surrounded by TV cameras and reporters.
I got as much media attention as the candidate who announced he was running against my candidate, that
the opposition campaign was furious.
They yelled at me, too bad I didn't lie.
I didn't resort to demagoguery.
I didn't cheat.
In my view.
I certainly didn't do anything unethical.
And it generated a tremendous amount of coverage for my particular candidate.
And my candidate was happy.
I was happy.
So sometimes when you're looking for a way of putting a spotlight on the messages you want to present,
you have to look for the right context.
The media absolutely loves conflict.
So if they see that you are in contrast to another set of ideas, it increases the odds.
You'll get a lot of attention, but you have to be willing to feel a little awkward.
I did feel a little awkward there.
I felt a little rude, but it was highly successful.

--- Fearlessness Is Often the Best PR Tool ---

There's a myth out there that a lot of people subscribe to, which is if you want to present to the
whole world through the media, get on major news networks, major newspapers, You have to have huge
budgets, lots of money for graphics, special effects, PR teams, and that can help sometimes, there's
no doubt about it.
But you don't have to have all those things.
Once I was at a talk radio convention, this is when I was hosting full time, way back in 1995.
I was in Houston, Texas at the convention, and they were about to give a major award to a talk show
host for the I think they called it the Freedom Award of the year.
I'm on about the second row and I'm having a pleasant conversation with a talk show host next to me.
Her name was Gloria Allred.
She was famous back then.
She's wildly famous now as a prominent attorney and high profile cases.
So we're sitting there chatting.
And it was right before G.
Gordon Liddy, a very famous Watergate criminal and talk show host, was about to be given a Freedom
Award because he talked about why people could aim and shoot at federal marshals.
Essentially.
Some people like that.
Some people found it wildly offensive.
So I'm having a pleasant conversation with Gloria, someone I'd heard about for years and had a fascination
with.
And she says, Oh, hang on, I'll be right back.
She had taken a piece of paper while we were talking, scribbled a few things.
She ran up on stage shouting.
It was something to the effect of Say no to fascist.
She ran across the stage.
It only took about 20s.
She came and sat down and we continued having a pleasant conversation.
Well, that evening, every single TV network had her image protesting this award, and she represented
tens of millions of Americans who did believe it was sort of odd to be honoring a host talking about
shooting federal agents.
So she was able to communicate a very specific political message.
And she did it in about 20s with a five cent budget, a piece of paper.
That's all it took.
It was simple, handmade.
And she was in the front page of the New York Times the next day.
Massive news coverage throughout the United States.
It was short, it was brief, but she was willing.
The reason it worked, she was willing to attack.
She was willing to interject herself where she wasn't invited.
She was willing to run up on stage, frankly, something most people would just feel too awkward to
do and feel too embarrassing to do.
But she does show if you have strong beliefs and you're willing to do things in a highly specific strategic
way, you can get tens of millions of dollars of publicity.
Now, she's been a been great at generating publicity throughout her whole career, sometimes with high
profile clients, but sometimes just a particular opinion she has that she wants to interject into a
broader news story and she shows you can do it with gumption, with creativity and with courage, not
necessarily with any money whatsoever.

--- King for a Day ---

Anytime you're giving a presentation, you want to be reading your audience, really looking at them.
Are they paying attention?
Are they falling asleep?
Are they talking to each other?
Are they texting?
Because that's a problem for you?
The Speaker It's not enough to say, Oh, they're rude, that's your problem as a speaker.
Once I was conducting an all day long media training and presentation training course in Atlanta, Georgia.
It was at the Carter Center, and I had about 20 political leaders from Nigeria over.
I had governors of states, the attorney general, the vice president.
They were all there in the training.
And it seemed like I was losing them.
There was just so much talking.
They're talking the whole time.
I felt like I was being ignored.
Now, the trainings typically go from 9 to 5 on all day long training.
About 3:00, the organizer came up to me and sort of whispered in my ear, Jerry, I think you're losing
them.
Let's wrap up early today.
Okay.
So I quickly wrap up.
We finish around 330 instead of five the second I'm done.
You know what happened?
All the trainees rushed me.
They came up, said how excited they were, how much they enjoyed the training.
They're all fighting with each other to see who can be next to me, to have a picture taken with me
and their group photos, individual photos.
They stayed after for lots of questions, all sorts of things going on.
They were really excited.
They loved the training.
The response was overwhelmingly positive.
So then I heard from for years later through emails.
So all in all, it was a good training.
Here's what happened.
In my estimation, I simply made a misjudgment.
Every culture is a little bit different.
There are certain cultural nuances.
Most of the time, most places I speak, if I'm standing up in training and someone's three feet in
front of me and they're talking the whole time to the person next to them, usually a sign I'm doing
something wrong, usually a sign they're not that interested in what I have to say.
In this case.
No, that's just how they wanted to share their enthusiasm and that's how they wanted to experience
the training.
So I made a misjudgment that they actually liked it.
So the real lesson, I think, is always be aware of your audience, be looking at them, try to sense
what's going on, but don't make quick automatic judgments.
Assuming you're failing or you're doing something awful, you're a disaster.
You've got to have an open mind.
Okay.
So why do I tell that story?
Fairly self explanatory.
I want people to realize you can seem like you're bombing and you're really not.
There can be different reactions from different audiences.
Now, I haven't spoken yet in Japan, but my understanding is in Japan, if an audience member really
likes what you're saying and respects, they'll actually close their eyes because they're so intent
on concentrating on your words and any other culture.
Someone's closing their eyes.
It usually means they fallen asleep.
So that's the lesson of this story.

--- TJ And the Cat Lady ---

Sometimes people think the life of a media trainer is all glamour.
It's about hanging out.
Training celebrities, famous politicians flying first class, staying in exotic places like Paris and
Bangkok.
And it is true.
I've done all those things, but it's not all glamorous.
I remember once early in my career this was more than a couple of decades ago.
I was conducting a media training for a political candidate in central South Florida.
This was a candidate for the state legislature.
And as I often did then and occasionally do now, the training was taking place at the trainees home
because all I really need is a television.
I bring a video camera, lights, microphone.
I walk into the house with my partner at the time, Stan, and instantly something was wrong.
I don't have a particularly sensitive sense of smell, but all of a sudden it was like, boom.
Like being punched in the nose because the stench of cat.
Cat feces, cat urine and whatever cat stuff else was so overwhelming it almost knocked me down.
Walk into that.
And this is where I'm supposed to spend the next eight hours.
Walk in.
Sit down.
My partner Stan quickly said, Oh, I just remembered another meeting I have to go to.
I'll see you at five.
He got out of there quickly.
Smart move.
He's smarter than I am.
And the candidate comes up to me and says, Oh, great.
Looking forward to working with you.
Would you like a snack?
Sure.
So she brought me a doughnut on a tray.
The tray is covered with cat hair.
The doughnut is covered with cat hair.
I look at the floor, the chairs, Everything in the house has about a quarter inch to a half inch of
cat hair.
I suddenly said, You know what?
I think I'm on a diet today.
I'm going to pass on the donut.
But thanks.
We do the training.
I'm trying not to get physically ill.
We do the training pretty much as we always do.
Get her on camera numerous times, refine her message, all of that.
It's lunchtime now.
Those of you who've ever been at a training with me or know me, you know I've never skipped lunch once
in my life.
I like lunch.
I like all three meals.
I don't skip meals.
Maybe I should, but I don't.
So she offered me lunch, a sandwich.
I looked at the sandwich.
It's on a plate.
The plate is covered with cat hair, and I don't like to do this.
I don't think I do this very often.
Try not to do this.
But I lied.
I said, Oh, and I'm just not hungry.
Thanks anyway.
I couldn't imagine stomaching something covered with cat hair.
She did also offer me some potato chips.
They were on the table and I saw that it was all covered up in a nice cellophane bag.
I thought, well, maybe that's safe.
I.
Open the bag, looked at a chip.
No cat hair ate.
It tasted pretty good.
I ate another one.
I'm just starving to death at this point.
I ate another one.
I ate the whole bag.
At least I'm not in pain anymore.
And the chips weren't that bad.
When I finished the bag, I turned it over and I looked at the expiration date, June 12th, 1989.
Well, at this point it's about 1994.
So these chips were so beyond expiration date, it wasn't even funny.
Again, my stomach is like, we continue the training all day long.
And I do think I helped the client.
I did help the candidate.
She got better and better and better and was better prepared for her state legislative race.
It wasn't the most enjoyable day, certainly the most glamorous day I've ever had as a media trainer.
But, you know, I got through it.
I didn't let the fact that my nose was under assault stop me.
I didn't let the fact that I was practically starving to death stop me.
I did my best and I focused on the client's need.
And I tried not to whine or be a baby about it.
Okay, so why do I tell that story?
I don't use this story very often, but certainly in a question and answer session when someone's asking
me about life as a media trainer or if I'm speaking to a Toastmasters group or a lot of people sort
of aspire to be a presentation coach, media coach, they do find it incredibly interesting and they
think of it as all glamorous, so it's useful to let them see there is another side to it.
But I also want them to know that if you're going to be good at it and as I like to think I am, you
have to ignore things that would just bother most people to the point where they couldn't function and
just do the job.
That's what I try to do, regardless of the obstacles, regardless of anyone else's attitude, regardless
of horrible stench in the room.
I just do my job.
And that's the message.

--- Why Did You Wear That Ugly Tie ---

Many years ago.
In the late 1980s, I was hosting a weekly TV political talk show.
It was syndicated throughout Florida, and I was living in Tallahassee, Florida, the capital of the
state.
This was back before the days of email and text messaging and all that.
So when you got viewer mail, it was literally mail.
Someone had to write a letter, type it, find an envelope, put a stamp on it.
So, you know, they really wanted to communicate with you.
I'd finished a show one week and I thought, Boy, I did a good job.
I said, So many brilliant, interesting, fascinating things.
I'm sure there's going to be great commentary in the viewer mail.
A couple days go by, go to the mailbox, open it up.
Sure enough, something that's clearly handwritten from a viewer.
I open it up.
Dear T.J., why did you wear that ugly tie last Sunday?
Here.
I thought I had all these brilliant comments people would want to praise me for.
What stuck out was my tie.
Here's what I found in working with people, preparing for TV interviews, being on TV myself.
It's not that there's one perfect thing to wear, but if you have one thing that stands out, that's
the only thing anyone's going to notice or talk about.
So if your tie is loose, if you have jewelry that's so much more interesting than anything you say,
if you've got a collar up, there's anything that stands out.
That's what people will notice.
So it is really important for you to figure out what's the image you're trying to project if you're
not specifically trying to sell yourself as a fashion designer or an artist or a really creative type,
and you're not in a specific job like doctor wearing a doctor's outfit or firemen and a fireman's outfit.
If you're just a typical business person or someone in government, then in general, you need to dress
in a way that's somewhat bland and doesn't distract people.
It's not that you can't have personality, but you don't want to distract them.
And that was the problem.
I wore a tie.
I think it had Paisley, so it had too many colors, too many small patterns.
It jumped around and it just captured too much attention.
Okay, so why do I tell that story?
I tell that story during a day of media training when I'm instructing people on what to wear for TV
because I want to drive home the importance of really thinking about what you're wearing because you
don't want to go to all the trouble of brainstorming on messages for two hours, brainstorming on soundbites,
practicing, rehearsing.
You do what?
Everything goes according to plan.
And then the only thing family, friends, colleagues talk about is the fact that your shirt was sticking
out or the stripes were dancing on the screen.

--- Less Is More ---

I was working with a very well known politician.
He had been the speaker of the legislature of a major Southern state.
He was now running for another office and was about to announce in the next couple of days.
I was brought in as his media consultant and media trainer.
We're sitting there in his home going over a standard media training.
What I always do, getting comfortable on how you look on TV, then talking about the messaging.
So if you're running for office, part of your message has to answer the question Why are you running
for this office?
So I asked him that question and he said, Well, because I want to do this and I want to do this and
I want to do this, I want to do this, and I'm trying to keep up writing it down.
We're putting it on poster boards.
We're writing it down.
Before you knew it, the house was practically covered with messages as to why he wanted to run.
Now, he fancied himself a very serious public policy person, very intellectual.
But when I asked him, Why are you running for office, he had to say hundreds and hundreds of things.
Now, once you're in office, there are hundreds of things you have to do, maybe thousands, but you
can't run on a platform of doing hundreds of things for candidates and for all the other voters in your
district.
It just doesn't work that way.
So and this was my fault as a trainer.
It was fairly early in my training business, my my training career before, you know what?
We had spent five, six hours brainstorming on messages.
So now we have to do the compression down to three messages quickly, and he wouldn't do it and he wouldn't
do it and he wouldn't do it.
We almost had to just arbitrarily pick three.
And then we had about five minutes to practice interviews and practices.
Three messages did not end well.
What happened during the campaign when he was interviewed, his announcement and every other time,
every time he spoke, he said something different.
Every time someone asked him, why are you running for office, he said ten new things.
Nothing ever resonated.
And he lost his bid for public office.
Now, I'm not proud of how that training went.
I'd like to think I've learned a lot since then.
I now impose a very strict discipline on how much time you could spend on brainstorming messages.
But a lot of times people have this mistaken notion that, Oh, I don't want to dumb things down.
I'm a smart person.
I want to respect the audience.
All that's great, but it actually takes more intellect to put your messages in priority than it does
to just dump them all out on a table.
When you have 500 messages, there's really no difference between that and having no message.
So why do I tell that story?
I want people to realize you don't get extra credit as a candidate or anyone trying to communicate to
the public by more and more, more and more and more.
You cannot spend a disproportionate amount of your time in the brainstorming mode.
That's the easiest thing to do for most people.
It's fun.
It's intellectually interesting, but it doesn't help you actually communicate.
You've got to spend as much time, if not more time, narrowing your messages to the top three, coming
up with soundbites leaving time for rehearsal.
If not, you're going to end up losing, whether at the ballot box or at the cash register.

--- The Missing Link ---

When it comes to the technology that you're going to be using in your presentation, you can never be
too prepared.
You need to check it, double check it, triple check it, and then quadruple check it.
Couple of decades ago, I was doing a training, very successful entrepreneur.
This guy had invented the deposit Sky Vodka.
Very successful entrepreneur.
And I'm doing a media training with him.
He's introducing a new liqueur into the marketplace that day.
Comes in, sits down, very charming.
Everything's great.
And I go to hook up my camera.
And the day had come.
The camera died.
Now, this was around the year 2000.
I was still using a VHS camera.
The camera was probably 12 years old.
So it's a late 1980s camera and it had the big old clunky VHS tape in it and it just froze, Broke,
died.
That's it.
I thought, okay, no problem.
I am prepared.
I had a second camera.
I take the first camera down, set the second camera up.
I'm so proud of myself for planning, for doing my due diligence.
I've got on the tripod, the lights.
Fine.
The camera's fine.
The tripod is fine.
The TV's fine.
Everything's great.
Except the cable from the camera to the TV is different than the one from the old camera.
Well, guess what?
When it comes to technology, audio, video technology, you're only as strong as your weakest link.
And I was completely missing a link.
There was no time to go to RadioShack or Best Buy or any store like that.
It was a simple half day training and we're now 50 minutes into it.
So what happened?
And this was before the days of video cameras on cell phones.
It's the year 2000.
There were no iPads back then.
There were no other cameras around.
So I had to talk about what to do with the media.
Now, I like to think I'm a good talker.
I'm talking here now, but that's not a training.
It really didn't go very well.
This client never hired me again.
The PR firm that hired me never, ever hired me again.
I didn't get any great testimonials.
I didn't get any great endorsements from that.
It was a complete bust.
So who's to blame here?
Just stuff happens.
You know, that's life now.
It was my fault.
I didn't do my due diligence.
I should have double checked to make sure I had every single piece before I went to that training.
I should have imagined the first camera breaking and then setting up the second, training the second
camera from scratch for the training and verifying to make sure it works.
So it was my fault.
These days I don't do any training unless I've got about 4 or 5 options for recording a client.
I bring a regular camcorder, another regular camcorder, an iPad where an emergency.
I could do a training.
Cell phones obviously have it.
A laptop has it.
So these days, I've got a lot of different ways of covering myself from a technology standpoint, and
I would urge you to cover yourself as well.
Okay, so what's the lesson here?
The lesson is you're going to use any AV audio visual tools for your presentation.
You've got to prepare.
I use this point when I'm coaching people on if they're going to use PowerPoint.
Don't assume the place you're going is going to have a projector or a remote control or the laptop that's
compatible with any programs you have.
Assume nothing.
Get there early.
Take everything you need.
Take extra versions of what you need.
Only then are you prepared.

--- A Nobel Experience ---

I flew into Vienna, Austria, and I was excited.
I had never been there before.
Beautiful city has every kind of amenity.
There's castles, museums.
The orchestra.
The opera.
Fantastic city.
Then I go to the United Nations Center and beautiful building.
But you kind of feel like you're in an Austin Powers movie.
It wasn't built in the 60s, but it has a 60s feel with round windows and odd shaped doors.
A really cool, fun, interesting building.
My assignment was pretty exciting.
I was working with someone who had just won the Nobel Peace Prize.
So here's someone who's going to be giving a speech.
Same place.
Martin Luther King Jr.
Lech Walesa.
Nelson Mandela.
Some of the most famous, most important, significant people in history.
Speaking out on their causes of how to make the world more peaceful, better.
And at a time when the world listens, you have a tremendous megaphone, a tremendous spotlight.
If you are given the Nobel Peace Prize.
So we start the practice.
And here's what happened.
My client pulls out his notebook.
Dear Nobel Committee, thank you so much for knees.
His head is down.
He's reading the whole time.
Uh oh.
What do we do?
Because it's not uplifting.
It's not inspirational.
It's not exciting.
It's not drawing people in to a new cause.
He sounded like, frankly, a low level bureaucrat just reading new regulations at the Department of
Motor Vehicles.
It just was not inspiring at all.
No emotion.
A whole bunch of facts.
But what do you do with someone who's naturally cautious, someone who naturally has legalistic training
and wants to be precise?
What do you do?
I'll tell you what I did there.
I let him practice, get comfortable with that a few times, but he was still reading.
And then we just kind of sat back and said, What do you really want people to know about how you experience
this, how you felt your experiences in your journey towards this award?
And we tried to put a little more emotion and feeling into it, and then we rewrote the speech.
But here's what I did.
I made the font much, much larger instead of normal font, you know, ten, 12 point, we made it much,
much larger font and we reduced it to sentence fragments.
Now he still wanted to read his call.
The thinking is a speech like this is put into the history books.
It's transcribed in newspapers all over the world.
You do want to get it just right, but by making it really large font and turning it into sentence fragments
and by practicing again and again and again, hour after hour, he was able to still read it, but look
up at least half the time.
And by talking about some personal elements of emotion experiences with his wife and part of his journey,
it brought some humanity to it.
It brought some warmth to it.
It brought a twinkle to his eye and a smile to his face.
And by practicing again and again and again on video, he read the speech in a way where it didn't just
sound like he was reading it.
It certainly didn't sound like he was reading it for the first time.
So there may be times when you feel like you just have to read, that's okay, but realize it's going
to take you more time than usual to get prepared.
My advice?
Make the font really large.
Practice again and again and again until you're at the point where you're looking up at your audience
half the time.
So why do I tell that story?
I don't want people to think that.
I'm saying every speaker has to do it my way and everything always has to be just from a single sheet
of notes or off the top of your head and giving perfect 100% eye contact with people all the time.
You don't have to.
I'd like you to, but you don't have to do it that way.
I want to give people a sense that there are other ways of doing it.
For certain speeches that seem more important, formal, more official than others.
There are ways of doing it, but you got to put more time into it.
So that's the real message from that story.

--- The Fetal Position ---

Fear of public speaking is real.
I was training six executives at a major oil company in New Jersey a decade and a half ago, and I started
out the presentation training, as I typically do.
People stand up.
I ask them to say a few words about themselves.
I point the camera on them.
We record it, look at it, figure out what we like and where to go from there.
Did the first person he spoke?
Second person She spoke.
Third person He spoke.
Fourth person.
Woman stood up.
All of a sudden she collapsed to the floor.
She started crying.
She was in the fetal position.
And she just said over and over, I can't do this.
I can't.
I'm too scared.
It was a sad moment.
It was sort of embarrassing for everyone involved.
And I'm sad to say she didn't recover that day.
She sat in the corner and watched and she is someone who had had a very successful career up to that
point.
And she was successful after that point.
But she didn't give a lot of presentation.
She didn't advance to the level of CEO, and I don't think she necessarily wanted to.
My point is, if you're feeling really scared of public speaking, you're in good company.
A lot of successful people are scared of public speaking.
A lot of people are scared at giving presentations.
And when you factor that with the fear of being on camera, knowing that it's captured and anyone can
see it in theory at any point, it's even scarier.
So this whole fear of public speaking is real.
It's not just something that's uniquely in your little mind.
It is a very real concern.
Now, I wish I could have done more to help her.
At that time when I was doing trainings, people were not used to recording themselves in advance with
their cell phones, with iPhones, with iPads.
These days, typically I ask someone to practice recording themselves a dozen, two dozen times in practice
before they ever step foot in a training with me.
But there was not that technology available then.
And I'll never forget how she just was on the floor, fetal position, crying.
Something I think of and some of you think of is really easy.
Just standing up and speaking is difficult for a lot of people.
So we all need some compassion for our colleagues there.
Let's face it, there are some people so afraid of public speaking they won't even sign up for an online
course like this.
The whole idea of even looking at someone encouraging them to speak is a scary thing.
Okay, so why do I tell that story?
I do want people to realize that fear of public speaking is out there.
It is a real thing.
So many people come to me, they not might not be at the point where they're in the fetal position crying,
but they still feel incredibly nervous.
About public speaking.
So when they hear a story about a senior executive at a major oil company who has that kind of reaction,
it makes them feel better.
It makes them feel like, okay, I'm not alone, I'm not uniquely weird or strange about this.
So that's why I tell this story.
And sometimes I use this story on Pre-training conference calls a couple of weeks before an actual training
to motivate people to actually practice in advance because nobody wants to cry and curl up in a fetal
position in front of 5 or 6 colleagues.
And it's a great tool to motivate people to do their homework in advance.
That's primarily where I use this story.

--- On My Hands And Knees Begging! ---

In the early aughts, it was probably around 2005.
I get a call.
It's a producer from Comedy Central's The Daily Show.
This was back when they did long form interviews, highly edited, typically to make somebody look like
a hapless fool or idiot, and they were doing a special on media trainers.
Now, I knew what I was getting in for.
I was a big fan of The Daily Show, and at least in some quarters, it's considered an honor to be on.
So I said sure.
They came to my TV studio in midtown Manhattan and this was elaborate.
I've seen major, major films and their productions have fewer people in this.
It seemed like there were 30 people.
They were in my studio for two days.
This was all for about a five minute segment.
They did everything from every single angle, multiple times.
True professionals.
By the way, if you Google it, you may still find it on line on YouTube as well.
It's still a funny piece.
But here's what happened.
At some point, the interviewer sees the items I have on my wall behind me and on a shelf.
One of the items is a truck from a well known oil company.
A toy truck happen to be one of my clients that I didn't do media training for.
I did presentation training for this company.
So the reporter is asking me during the interview, Hey, tell me about all the good things that that
company and they pointed to the company and mentioned it by name.
Tell me all the good things they do for their environment.
And the environment in general.
And at that point I thought, oh, no, because this is a company where I had to write all sorts of
confidentiality agreements.
I can never mention their name.
I'm not even mentioning their name.
Now, this is a company where if any one of the company does talk to the media, they're typically taken
out back and well, you never see them again.
So I instantly calculated that there's nothing I could say if it were quoted that would be anything
other than getting me fired from at that time, my biggest client.
So I didn't say much.
I'm sure I looked a little bit panicked and I said something to the effect of I'm it wasn't great.
So two full days of interviews, lots of material.
I didn't mind them making fun of me and they did.
But after the shooting was over, but before the story went on the air, I called the producer and I
just begged.
Got on my hands and knees.
And I'm begging you.
Look, I don't mind you making fun of me.
I don't mind you making me look like a fool.
I know you've got to do your job, but all I ask is if there's any way you could just not use the part
where your correspondent asks me about the oil company.
Because if you do, they will just say no one in this company can ever use TG again.
And you're going to cost me a lot of money.
And I know that your first job is going to be to put on a good comedy show, but you're not really out
to have me lose a lot of money.
So I'm begging you.
He called back a day later and said, okay, we looked at it.
Yeah, we don't need that part, don't worry.
And sure enough, it was not used.
So I teach you a lot of different methods in the media training courses.
I do.
How to have messages, how to answer questions strategically, how to package with soundbites, how
to rehearse.
But there is one tactic that occasionally needs to be used and is also effective.
And that tactic is good old fashioned begging.
Shouldn't be your first choice, second choice or third choice.
But it's perfectly fine as a last choice.

--- Yes, My Stint on Reality TV ---

Let me take you behind the scenes of reality shows.
Now, I know reality TV star, but there was a time when I did shoot a bunch of footage for a particular
reality show pilot.
I was conducting a day long media training with a very newly minted Miss Universe.
Following her was an entire TV crew because they were shooting pilots and episodes for a reality show
about being Miss Universe.
So she comes in, the producer says, Hey, TJ, we got to leave in a half an hour.
We're not going to be able to be here all day, but we need something for the show that talks about
what happened after the training.
So I need you to sit here with Miss Universe and have a debrief as if it's after the training and you're
talking about what was learned and the experience of the day only hasn't happened yet.
And you're surrounded by all these people and everyone's nice and professional and they've all got a
job to do.
And it's human nature not to want to slow things down and to be a bother.
So I did it.
Now, I don't think I did anything horribly immoral or tawdry, but I did kind of go along in this fake
thing where I talked to her about, So here's what we learned today and here's the it's a little bit
fake and phony.
Now, the only reason I point this out to you is you are in charge of you.
You're in charge of your own messages, your own brand.
Don't let anyone talk you into saying things that are going to come back to haunt you.
You could be stopped on the street by a late night comedy show and they want you just to spout gibberish.
Maybe no one ever cares, but it could come back to tarnish your reputation or your image.
So whether it's a reality show producer or a man or woman on the street interviewing you, remember
that no one can force you to sing anything you don't want to say.
No one can force you to be inauthentic.
That's going to come from you.
Okay.
So why do I say that story?
I tell that story for a couple of reasons.
The main thing is I just want people to realize other people can be nice and try to shape you in a lot
of different ways.
You still have 100% control over what comes out of your own mouth.
The other thing is it kind of gives people a little bit of an interesting flavor of their trainer or
their speaker.
Today has kind of been involved with a lot of different interesting things at varying levels of show
business and media.
Just gives them a little better sense that I've seen a lot of different media from different perspectives,
and therefore that experience might be able to help them.

--- Brought Down to Earth ---

The year was 2011.
I'm in the Time Warner Center in midtown Manhattan, in the studios at CNN.
I've just finished a live appearance on Headline News.
It was debating a topical political issue, and I thought I had done extremely well.
I thought I was funny, incisive, great soundbites, won the debate, and frankly, my chest was a
little bit puffed out.
I thought, wow, I nailed it.
I did everything exactly the way I wanted to.
I thought it was fun.
I thought I was funny, insightful.
I thought I was, frankly, the perfect pundit guest.
It's a beautiful spring day.
I leave the Time Warner Building and I decide I'll a nice walk down Broadway back to my TV studio on
40th Street.
I look down my phone.
There's a couple of messages.
One is from a talk radio producer about wanting me to host a host a show, and I'm thinking, Wow,
I was so good.
People are calling me with job offers now.
Another is from my publicist, Mark Goldman at Goldman.
McCormick I thought, who do I call first?
I call the talk radio producer to hear about my job offers.
Turns out it's some scam operation that just wants to sell basically infomercials.
And they prey upon insecure people with shallow egos who want to pay money to be on the air.
It was just a worthless sales pitch unless I wanted to waste a bunch of money.
So much for that.
Okay, well, I know I've still got good news.
I'll call Mark.
Mark, it's TJ.
What's the good word?
I'm expecting him to say.
The producer said you're fantastic.
They'd like you back tomorrow and twice a week.
And I'll never forget what he said.
TJ, you've been banned for life from Headline News.
Well, as a part of the political commentary, I happen to be very, very critical of an extraordinarily
well known businessman slash reality star slash real estate developer.
I'm not going to mention his name.
He later went on to attain high political office in the United States.
But apparently some of his supporters are either inside the network or inside his organization.
Did not like my commentary criticizing him and ridiculing him again.
This is 2011.
And a decree came down that I was banned for life from ever appearing on Headline News again.
For those of you who don't know, that's a second division, second tier division of CNN now called
HLN, I believe.
So here I am, banned for life.
So I went from thinking, wow, my greatest talk show appearance ever, I'm in demand to people trying
to con me out of infomercial time, being banned for life.
So what's the point here?
My point is, don't get too high on yourself.
You never really know how you're doing.
Something could play well in your own brain and your own mind, your own plan, and completely fall
flat in other areas.
And you might make enemies.
You just don't know.
So there's several different messages here.
That's a part of it.
Don't get too high on yourself and think you're great.
But also don't get too discouraged either.
It's true.
I've never actually been on HLN again.
Big deal.
Hasn't seemed to hurt my business any.
I've been on gazillions of TV networks and TV stations and radio networks and podcasts all over the
world ever since.
My business model isn't dependent on being a guest on any one show or any one channel, so it doesn't
really matter.
And that's the lesson.

--- My Stagecoach to Pumpkin Moment ---

Heb jij ooit een Assepoester-moment beleefd?
Ik weet dat ik dat heb gedaan in negentien zesennegentig, ik was arm, ik bedoel echt arm.
Ik verdiende het hele jaar ongeveer vijfduizend dollar.
En dat was als commentator voor Voice of America Radio Network.
Ik woonde eigenlijk in een commune met gammele meubels waar de kranten drie meter op elkaar
lagen.
Er lopen katten rond, maar ik woon er gratis.
Nou, ik werd geboekt om te verschijnen in de Montel Williams Show, wat toen iets groots was in de Verenigde
Staten.
Het was een gesyndiceerde talkshow, een soort Oprah Winfrey Show op haar hoogtepunt rond
deze tijd, het had tien miljoen kijkers per dag.
Dus ik trok mijn enige echte pak en stropdas aan, kleedde me aan, ging naar buiten en daar stond de
grootste, langste limousine.
Ik bedoel, een gewone limousine, ik bedoel, een stretch limousine die ik ooit had gezien.
Het leek wel het hele blok waar ik in stapte.
Er is een volle bar en ze namen me mee naar de Montel Williams Show.
En jongen, wat voelde ik me op dat moment koning van de wereld.
De show gedaan.
Ik vond dat het goed ging.
We bespraken en debatteerden over het nieuwe boek van Mantel en hij had een verscheidenheid aan pundits en commentatoren in
het programma.
De show ging goed.
Het leek bijna een feest, fantastisch studiopubliek.
En dan staat er een enorme limousine op me te wachten die me naar huis brengt.
Ik kom terug en daar ben ik.
En in mijn achterbuurt trek ik mijn pak uit en ga ik uit eten.
Het was dat ene stuk pizza.
Meer kon ik me niet veroorloven.
Dit is mijn punt voor jou.
Als je mensen ziet op tv, in de media, in je lokale kranten, nationale kranten, betekent dat
niet dat ze zoveel succesvoller zijn dan jij.
Rijker dan jij betekent gewoon dat ze zich in een positie bevinden waarin ze iets te zeggen hebben over een bepaalde kwestie en dat ze zich willen
uitspreken.
Dus mijn uitdaging aan jou is, wacht niet tot al het andere perfect is in je carrière.
Wacht niet tot je honderd procent financieel zeker bent of tot alles perfect is met je carrière of je leven.
Je hebt iets waarover je je wilt uitspreken.
Ga je gang.
Wees een avond lang Assepoester op het bal.
Hij zal het niet vergeten.
Je zult ervan genieten.
En het kan leiden tot andere dingen die specifieke show meer dan waarschijnlijk elke andere show die ik heb gedaan.
Ik heb de afgelopen dertig jaar meer dan tweeduizend nationale, internationale en lokale tv- en radioprogramma's gedaan.
Daar kreeg ik meer feedback van.
Mijn portier zag het.
Mensen in bars zagen het, mensen gaven commentaar.
Tenminste in mijn eigen gedachten.
Ik was als een mini-beroemdheid voor ongeveer vier of vijf dagen nadat de show liep.
Dus ik zou niet zeggen: sla het af, maar realiseer je ook dat je het ene moment de toast kunt zijn die rondrijdt
in de grote limousine, maar dan ben je terug en verander je weer in een pompoen.
Oké, waarom vertel ik dat verhaal?
Ik wil dat mensen zich dat realiseren, ongeacht waar ze zich in hun carrière bevinden.
Ze kunnen soms direct naar de top van de nationale media gaan, er is het gevoel dat je op de een of andere manier je contributie
moet betalen, lokale media voor jaren en jaren en jaren, en dan regionale media, en dan nationale media als je echt
groot en succesvol bent.
En nu hoeft dat niet meer zo te zijn.
Ik ken mensen bij wie hun allereerste talkshowoptreden ooit live op prime time CNN op Larry King was, toen dat nog heel
belangrijk was.
Dus dat is het punt.
Zoek naar mogelijkheden, ongeacht waar je je in je carrière bevindt en ongeacht je leeftijd.

--- Me and Ben Affleck ---

Presenting is not acting and acting is not presenting.
They are different things.
You can be the world's best presenter, public speaker and frankly be horrible at acting.
You can also be good at acting and be horrible presenting or speaking in your own words.
How do I know this?
Well, I know it because I've lived it.
Now I happen to think I'm a pretty good presenter.
A lot of people tell me that it is how I make my living, but nobody's good at everything.
I happen to be awful at memorizing other people's words and delivering it and doing a type of acting.
It's just not what I'm good at.
How do I know that?
Well, I got a call about five years ago from an assistant producer making a movie called Runner Runner,
and it was starring Ben Affleck and Justin Timberlake.
They said, We just need someone to be an Internet newscaster talking about the rise of Internet gambling
and how it's affecting college kids.
And they had about three sentences of dialogue, not even dialogue.
Just as if you were reading a teleprompter.
And the assistant producer said, We found your video of you talking about similar stuff online.
It looks good.
We'd like to use you for this movie.
I'm thinking, Great, I'm going to be a movie star.
I'm sure I'll be in Hollywood at the Academy Awards hanging out with Ben Affleck.
I'm getting all excited.
So I did a couple of versions, recorded it, sent it to the producer, like, Can you try it this way?
Did a few more versions, sent it to the producer?
Can we have a little less emphasis on this word?
Send it back.
Well, this went on every day for a week.
And at the end of the week I counted it up.
I had done 103 takes of this basically 1015 second clip of me just speaking to the camera like I'm a
newscaster, but using someone else's words.
And guess what the assistant producer said.
Thanks so much, TJ.
We're going in another direction.
I didn't make the cut.
I ended up on the cutting room floor.
They ended up using John Seigenthaler, who is a former NBC anchor and and a nice guy, someone I used
to deal with who interviewed me many times when he was at MSNBC.
So no hard feelings there.
But it does show you it's just a different skill set.
I can do videos for online courses all day long, typically in one take, but if you give me someone
else's script to memorize and say it in a natural way, I might have to do it 2 or 20 2 or 102 times.
It still might not be very good.
So.
You don't have to be good at everything.
I don't want to be a professional actor, so it's not really hurting me.
But it's good to test and try new things from time to time because then you see what you're good at
and what you're not.
Okay, so why do I give that example?
Sometimes when people see me speak in a training situation, it almost seems intimidating because they
feel like, Oh, I'm articulate and I'm smooth and I'm not saying ums and ahs, and I want them to realize
I'm not great at every type of speaking opportunity.
I fail.
I still fail because that wasn't that long ago.
And I can still be disastrous for some things.
So it's okay not to be good at every type of speaking opportunity.
And if it's not something you really want to do or a part of your profession, it doesn't matter.
I don't aspire to be an actor.
It kind of fell in my lap, so I thought, why not?
Now my biggest nightmare was, Oh, this is going to be one of the best movies of all time.
It's a blockbuster.
It's going to be a Citizen Kane.
And my whole life, every time I see it, it'll be on once a week.
I'll have these pangs of, Oh, that could have been me.
Fortunately, I hate to sound mean spirited.
The movie was a bomb, and basically nobody ever saw it again.
So it wouldn't have mattered if I'd been in the movie or not.

--- Pre-YouTube Days Driving to One TV Station At a Time ---

I apologize because I'm about to sound like your grandpa talking about why in my day I'd walk ten miles
to school in the snow barefoot.
It's going to sound like that.
I do apologize, but a lot of times these days I do think people take for granted how easy it is to
speak to the whole world on video.
Essentially have your own TV show, your own video production company that can have instant distribution
all over the world.
This is a relatively recent phenomenon.
Now, I've had a lifelong fascination with media, TV, radio, print ever since I was a boy growing
up in North Carolina in the 60s and 70s.
I'll never forget my first crystal radio that I got.
That's one where you don't need a battery.
I listen to late night talk radio when I was 12 years old in 1974.
So things have come a long way since then.
Even in the 1980s, I had this brilliant idea that I wanted to be a famous talk show host.
Now, these days, you want to do it.
You just start shooting, put it up on YouTube and you promote promote a little different.
Back then, I had to talk someone into giving me money, a bunch of money.
I had to hire a TV production crew.
I had to shoot the pilot.
Then I had to make all these dubs, and then I physically got in my car and I drove to every TV station
in Florida, knocked on doors, begged general managers and program directors to see me, then begged
them to put my show on the air.
Somehow I was able to do this, and I got on ten different stations throughout Florida, every single
media market, and it was a weekly show.
So I would then have to make the show again begging, borrowing, pleading, raising money to hire production
crew, create the show, produce the show.
Then we had to make copies on sometimes a half, three fourths of an inch, sometimes a full inch videotape.
We then had to Fedex this video to stations all over the state.
It was an extraordinarily difficult, time consuming, expensive process.
And that happened for a couple of years.
And when it was all done, I had some great stories, some great experiences and a mountain of debt.
These days, if you want to fail like me, you can fail without having debt.
You can just create your show, distribute on YouTube, Facebook elsewhere.
And if you don't have a huge audience, you don't end up with a lot of debt.
So I do want you to realize that we're in a golden opportunity, a golden era for creators.
If you've got a great idea, create it, Put it out there.
You don't have nearly as much to lose as I did or most people throughout history.
Okay, so why do I tell that story?
Part of it is I just want people to realize it's so much easier now to create video, whether you call
it a TV show, a documentary, a short video, whatever you want to call it, something where you're
speaking on video.
It's never been easier to create that and to distribute it doesn't mean it's easy to make money.
That's a separate issue, but at least you can do it and not have to spend a lot of money, raise a
lot of investment dollars.
That changes things completely.
So I do want to encourage people don't just wait to have someone hand you a talk show or to invite you
on a show you can initiate now without having to be like me and going into a bunch of debt and driving
around to TV stations.
You don't have to deal with all the gatekeepers anymore.
You can go right to an audience.

--- Familiarity Breeds Contempt ---

When you are giving a presentation, part of the success is going to be the strength of your ideas that
you're communicating.
Part of it is how you're communicating, whether you're using great visuals or awful ones, examples,
great stories or bland and boring.
But a part of your success is simply who you are.
How much does the audience respect you?
How big a deal is it that they can see you and hear you speak?
What I've noticed throughout my career is there's this funny thing with how close you are to someone.
Now, I'm based in the New York City area, so if I'm training someone or giving a presentation to a
group of people who also are in New York, live in New York, work in New York, they may show up on
time for a training.
They may pay attention, but it's virtually impossible for me to get them to go to dinner with me the
night before the training or after the training.
I'd love to, but it's too busy.
When you're that close, it's like you can see this person any time.
No big deal.
If I'm training or giving a speech on the other side of the country, all of a sudden it's a bigger
deal.
My clients will go out to dinner with me, they'll have a drink with me.
They may socialize with me.
So that's a little different.
Now, the first time I trained in Central Europe, it's even more of a difference.
When you're from another continent, then you're sort of a bigger deal.
I was in Central Europe.
This is one of the first times I trained there.
And I found myself at a party at the Canadian ambassador's house in this particular capital city, fancy
place.
I'm sitting next to the ambassador and we're being waited on and the waiters have white gloves and tails
on.
It's that fancy an event.
And everyone's very nice to me and charming.
Pleasant.
I turn to the ambassador.
I said, Thank you so much for having me.
Great party tonight.
Tell me, what's the occasion?
And the ambassador turned to me and said, Well.
Mr. Walker, the occasion is honouring you, our esteemed guest from America.
And you, the celebrated author and media and presentation expert.
I was shocked again.
I'm doing the same thing.
Clients.
Customers in New York won't even have a cup of coffee with me after a training.
Sometimes go to another continent and they're literally throwing parties in my honor.
So my message to you is look for opportunities to speak outside your own hometown.
You can have the same message and the reception might be much better.
Much might be much more powerful.
People may be looking up to you even more because there is this sense of the expert from afar.
Someone you see every day at the coffee pot tells you something.
It's easy to discount it.
Someone flies in from thousands of miles away and all of a sudden they're the expert.
You're excited.
It's limited opportunity to interact with this person, so you give that person extra attention that
can work in your favor if you have the opportunity to speak in other cities.
So my advice to you is really look around for other opportunities to speak in different places, because
it's a great way to build a stronger bond and a stronger relationship with people you want to reach,
communicate with and help.

--- Ups and Downs and Ups and Downs ---

One of the reasons I love public speaking skills, presentation skills and love teaching people as I
do believe it's a great way to help your career at any stage, no matter where you are, whether you're
here and want to go here or down at the bottom.
Or maybe you were up here, went down here.
It's a way to get back up.
I know that firsthand.
In 2001, early 2001, I was not a young man back then.
I was 38, going to turn 39 Later that year.
I'd had a string of failures.
I'd had.com failures, syndicated talk shows go bust.
Frankly, almost everything I touched just didn't turn out well.
And I found myself living in a slum in the worst part of Queens.
I won't even mention the name of the place, but I'm right next to Kennedy Airport.
It's loud.
Airplanes are going over and I'm living in what's literally a flophouse.
It was a $400 a month place.
And I think my entire bank balance at that point was $400.
And at that point, that's when I started my career for real as a professional trainer.
And I'd done trainings on the side since 1984.
But as far as really establishing myself, working full time to build a presentation skills training
business and a media training business, it started right there.
That was kind of my beginning point.
I'll never forget.
I was sitting on the floor in my bedroom because I had no chair.
I had a laptop on the floor because I had no desk or table.
I had 112 year old video camera, one old, and it was VHS.
I had one old laptop.
And that was it.
Now, the good news is when you're really poor, you don't have any distractions.
I didn't have time to go out and date or socialize them.
I had no money for bus fare or subway fare to go even meet my friends.
So it gave me the time to really, really focus.
So what did I do?
I wrote newsletters.
I sent emails to prospects all day long.
I called when I could afford a phone call and it forced me to develop a marketing mindset.
It was also a recession then, by the way.
So it was, in a sense, the worst possible time to start a new business.
But it was also, in retrospect, the best time to start a business.
Because if you start with nothing and you're scrambling around and doing everything you can to market,
it builds in you a marketing mindset.
And that's what happened to me then.
So it was a very, very humble beginning.
But it did teach me if you focus on presenting, constantly presenting yourself, helping other people,
you don't have to have big fancy offices.
You don't have to have all sorts of equipment, marketing, budget.
You just need to focus your energies and speak every prospect.
You can call as many people as possible, email as many people as possible, and pitch your vision,
pitch your mission, and you can ultimately find some success.
Okay, so why do I tell that story?
I want people to realize that I'm not just someone who everything I've ever touched is turned to success.
I've had some hard times, too.
I want to seem relatable to people, and it does make them feel like, Oh, he's had some downsides
too.
It's long enough ago that they don't feel like, Why am I using this guy?
He's a failure.
It was a long enough time ago, so it's kind of safe for me to use that as an example.
And it does stress to people that if you focus and speak, there was no YouTube back then, but just
speaking to people on the phone, speaking to people who will meet you for a free meeting, speaking
to people through an email can be enough to build a business.
Now, I don't want to make it sound like, Well, I did it.
Anyone can do it and be just a generic motivational speaker because there are some advantages that I
have that other people don't have.
Let's face it, the world is filled with racism and sexism and classism and all sorts of other problems
that frankly have benefited me.
So I don't want to make it sound like everybody can do this since I did it.
But I do want to give people kind of a sense of my own arc, things that have worked for me so that
they can pick and choose some of them or use that as inspiration even better.

--- The Least Listened To Talk Show Host Ever ---

Sometimes it takes some bad presentation opportunities to make all the other opportunities look easy
in comparison.
Once I was hosting a late night talk radio show in South Beach, the southern tip of Miami Beach.
This was back in the heyday of the South Beach craze, would have been around 1993, and my shift was
from midnight Friday night, Saturday morning till 4 a.m..
So I had a four hour stretch.
It was a political talk radio show in a place where everyone is thinking about partying and dancing
and going crazy.
And I had no guests.
It was a caller based show, so it was me pontificating on the world, taking calls, what could go
wrong?
So I do the first hour of the show.
No calls.
I've covered everything in the news today.
What's going on in Washington, New York, the major news stories, what was on the news that night,
kind of running out of material we go into and I'm begging for calls.
Nothing's coming.
Hour two, I'm really kind of scraping the barrel on topics, begging for calls, no calls.
Hour three.
At some point, I start reading chapters from a political book I'd written Just dying out there.
Please.
Another commercial break, please.
Will someone call?
We get to hour four.
Finally.
We're halfway through hour for the phone lights up.
I'm looking at the glass window to the producer.
I can see the lights flashing.
I feel a sigh of relief.
And we'll go to the calls.
Now let's go to line one.
Jim, who's on line one?
I look through the glass.
The producer is like this.
The producer has fallen asleep.
Wake up.
Wake up, Wake.
He is fallen asleep.
The phone line is still flashing.
Flashing.
Caller one will be with you in a moment, please.
And I'm begging.
Begging.
The caller gave up.
It wasn't until the next commercial break I was able to wake up the producer and it was a disaster of
a show.
It was frankly pathetic.
I got through the whole four hour shift.
The next host comes in.
How's it going?
Huh?
How'd your shift go?
But you know what?
After doing four hours without a single guest, a single call.
Now, someone asked me to get up, talk for an hour.
Piece of cake.
Someone needs me to do a simple online video for 3 or 4 minutes unscripted without interviewing someone.
Piece of cake.
So in retrospect, it was a great learning tool because it forced me to think while I speak, to think
and speak under pressure to fill up space.
And it was a great learning tool.
It didn't win any awards as far as broadcasting awards didn't make me a lot of money.
I don't think I even got paid for that.
If I did, it was something like $5 an hour.
But it did teach me if I have to fill up space, I can.
It also takes tremendous pressure off if I'm asked to speak somewhere and I'm told it's a half an hour
and at the last minute I'm told it's an hour or it's 45 minutes.
There's no sweat coming off my brow.
It's completely relaxing because it's easy for me to think in front of people and speak.
And especially if I have a live audience in front of me, I can ask them questions, they can talk back
to me.
And it's so much easier than being on that South Beach talk radio show where no one called and I don't
think anyone even listened.
Okay, so why do I tell that story?
I want people to realize I'm not some perfect, great, wonderful, articulate, perfect speaking trainer
speaker in front of them.
I've had failures too, and that you can learn from your failures.
Any business person, any political leader, any entrepreneur who's in this for the long run, who really
wants to do a lot with their career, I think is going to have some bad days, some bad presentations,
some bad speeches, some bad media interviews.
The point is, you have to learn from them.
You have to figure out what happened here will somehow make what I'm doing over here better or easier
or clearer.
And that's the lesson.

--- Nothing Beats a Good Gimmick ---

The word gimmick has a lot of negative connotations because sometimes it can be cheesy.
It can seem tawdry.
I'm not talking about anything unethical or embarrassing, but sometimes you do need something that
just makes a topic you want to discuss more interesting to people.
I faced that challenge in 2008.
I had a new book coming out.
Secret to Foolproof Presentations, and I wanted to do a lot of media interviews, talking, promoting
the book, selling the book.
But there's only one problem.
Most TV producers, radio producers are not that interested in authors, especially authors who talk
about a public speaking book.
Because even at that time, if you went on Amazon, there were about 10,000 books about public speaking.
So how do I solve this problem?
How do I get people interested in it?
So I tried to be creative and think about something that could cut through the sheer boredom and the
tediousness of an old topic.
So I thought rather than asking people to have me on the show to talk about my book and public speaking,
why don't I try to engage talk show hosts around the country?
So what I did is I set out as a goal to get into the Guinness Book of Records for speaking and talking
on the most talk shows ever in a 24 hour period.
So now my pitch to talk radio shows everywhere was how would you like to be a part of a Guinness Book
of Records?
And I'll promote you and I'll send out a press release in your community talking about how you were
a part of this Guinness Book of Records.
Now, all of a sudden, I have a talk show host who in general love, publicity and attention for themselves,
interested in being a part of this.
So rather than killing myself to get 2 or 3 bookings, I was generating massive amounts of bookings.
So we picked a day.
All the promotion was geared towards getting the talk shows booked for a one 24 hour period.
It was a 6 a.m. to a 6 a.m. and I did ten interviews in the first hour and the second hour another ten,
the third, and on and on and on.
At that point, the Guinness Book of Records was something like 54 talk show appearances in a 24 hour
period.
Again, these are talk radio.
So I wasn't having to drive to different places.
My colleagues and I at Media Training worldwide did all the interviews from one place.
We actually did it from a news network in Manhattan, and the whole thing was simulcast on that news
network on an Internet news channel.
So it was kind of a show within a show.
And I'll never forget like three in the morning.
I'm talking to my colleague Chris.
Chris, are we going to make it?
How many do we have?
I was practically toothpicks in my eyes to stay awake.
Chris says, Hang in there, TJ.
We're doing well.
We're.
We're going to beat the record, no doubt about it.
Finish the 24 hours.
And lo and behold, did about 112 interviews in 24 hours.
Now we had to get certified and we had to get every single station to write saying we were definitely
on.
So that took the count down to about 94.
But the bottom line is I got in the Guinness Book of Records for most talk show appearances ever, and
it taught me a couple of things that if you want to speak a lot, you can, but you've got to find a
hook that satisfies other people's goals and agendas.
I was able to satisfy the needs of the reporters, and you've got to somehow be a little more creative
and go one step beyond the usual.
The usual is just, I have a book.
Let me tell you the main tips in my book.
In this case, I figured it's a book about speaking.
Why don't I actually demonstrate that I can speak well under stress, under duress in an extreme way,
by actually speaking more than anyone has ever spoken in the history of the world on talk radio shows.
That's what I did.
And that's what just made it a little, shall we say, gimmicky.
But it worked.
And the book went on to become a major bestseller.
So why did I tell that story?
I tell it for a couple of reasons.
I want people to realize if they're hiring me for media training.
Well, your media trainer isn't just one of these trainers who used to be a reporter on a local NBC
affiliate and hasn't done any interviews in the last 15 years.
I'm someone who is constantly in the media, constantly being interviewed, someone who literally holds
the record for most interviews in a 24 hour period, at least a talk radio format.
So I want to give people a sense that I'm truly experienced and I've been able to do it under extreme
situations, even when extremely tired.
So that is a part of the lesson.
I also want people to think about how can they be creative, come up with new hooks so they can give
their presentation to the world in a lot more media outlets by being more interesting to the media?

--- Sometimes, Experience Just Means You Are Old ---

One day I was conducting a media training session in my New York City studio, and it was with the premier
of Bermuda, the top politically elected leader of the country.
We were doing a simple press conference and I do what I always do.
I ask tough questions.
We record it, we play it back, we critique it.
And I said, Mr. Prime Minister, what about and I asked some sort of generic tough question.
I'll never forget his answer.
He said, I reject the premise of your question.
It's a ridiculous question.
Next question with an angry look on his face.
And then we went to the next question.
We finished that that little segment, and I pulled aside his aide once and I said, Is that really
how he answers the questions?
They said, yes.
I said, Does he ever do interviews?
They said, yeah, he does dozens of interviews every single week.
What was his profession before he entered politics?
He ran a public relations firm.
I was just shocked.
Now, I quickly showed him that that isn't in his advantage to answer questions that way.
It's confrontational, makes it look like he's hiding something, creates a clash with reporters.
And what I coached him to do, what I coach all of my clients to do, is not to dodge questions, but
to simply focus on the part of the premise of the question you can deal with and answer it in your own
positive terms.
Or if someone says something you think is flatly wrong, you can say actually and then state what you
do believe and let the person deduce you don't agree with their premise.
This way there's no confrontation.
You're not saying anything quotable off message, and it doesn't seem like you're on the defensive any
time you're defending with the media, you're basically losing.
Show them that technique.
Complete difference, complete sea change of how he came across.
It turned press conferences from an adversarial contentious to smooth pleasant affairs.
So remember, if you hear a question you don't like.
That's okay.
But rewrite it in your own brain.
Don't tell the reporter you think the premise is ridiculous.
Just alter the premise to one you think is fair and honest and answer that.
Okay.
What did I do with that story?
What I was trying to do is convey that even someone who's really experienced in the media, even someone
with a background in public relations, when they get in front of the cameras, can do things horribly.
So don't assume just because your boss or your boss's boss has been doing this for 10 or 20 years or
has a certain position or title or rank or salary that they're good at it.
In my experience, there are people in all different aspects of the corporate world, government, political
world who simply aren't very good at certain aspects of presenting to the media.
They need to learn new skills to do it effectively.
That was the message.

--- Some Media Stars Are Approachable ---

In 1990, I was a young, struggling talk show host, had my own TV show, syndicated throughout Florida,
but I was trying to make it to the big time.
I wanted to be national, so I took demo tapes.
Compilations of the best segments I thought represented me, dubbed them on old VHS tapes, and I mailed
them to a number of top TV stars.
So the top stars at CNN, some of the top stars at other networks.
One star I sent it to was talk shows that the financial news network, then CNBC, Bob Berkowitz, he
did prime time talk show.
And I just thought he comported himself so well.
He had style.
He had flair, intelligent, interesting, fantastic talk show host.
So I wrote to all these different hosts.
None of them responded.
I had a nice cover letter personalized to each one.
None of them responded except for Bob Berkowitz.
He called me up out of the blue.
Hi, this is Bob Berkowitz, deep, resonant voice I'd only heard on TV before.
I was kind of shocked and excited.
He said, Hey, I watched your demo tape.
I don't have any job for you, but I just wanted to tell you I liked it.
I think you're really professional.
Good job.
You got a good career ahead of you.
And this just lifted my spirits for weeks.
I was floating on cloud nine.
Fast forward 15 years, and somehow we connected in New York City.
I was now living in New York City doing media training.
We connected and we have actually become friends since then.
In fact, I've even hired him to train with some of my clients for media gigs and we often collaborate.
So what's my point here?
There's really two.
Number one, if you are trying to communicate to the media, don't be afraid to just reach out to people.
Sometimes the more famous, the more likely they are to respond to you personally.
Now they won't.
All most of the ones I wrote to didn't.
But occasionally they will.
And it can be the start of a professional relationship or even a friendship.
The other point here, though, is if you are in the media or you are speaking at some venue and some
20 year old writes to you or high school intern writes to you about something of a professional nature,
try to respond back.
You never know how you might end up collaborating with that person, even working for that person at
some point.
So you just never know.
My advice Communicate up and down.
Don't even think about up and down.
Just communicate with people who care about what you do and try to build bridges.
That's the way to have a long term career as a communicator.

--- You Will Never Guess One Early Role Model ---

It's important to have presentation role models, media role models, communicator, role models.
When I was growing up in Charlotte, North Carolina, only a couple of miles away from me was someone
who founded his own mega media empire.
This person was Jim Bakker of the PTL Club.
The Praise the Lord Club, as it was known back then, he was a TV evangelist who had a massive, massive
worldwide following.
And I was not a particular fan of his particular brand of religion, but I marveled at his ability to
create something out of nothing, to create his own TV empire.
And it was all just a couple miles away from my house.
This was the mid 1970s and he was generating must have been hundreds of millions of dollars a year from
people all over the world giving him money just because he said things they liked to hear on TV.
Now, eventually he had his own amusement parks and condos and all sorts of things.
Now, eventually he went to prison for fraud.
That's another issue.
But what fascinated me about him is here's a guy who synthesized different aspects of communication.
He wasn't a pure preacher who stood up at a pulpit and just lectured from the Bible.
He wasn't a pure Johnny Carson talk show host doing comedy monologues, but he blended the two together.
He had his own band.
He had a talk show set.
He had a sidekick like an Ed McMahon.
He had a couch for guests.
He was behind a desk.
So he fused entertainment and religion together in a fascinating way.
And it created a huge, vast empire for him with tremendous influence around the world.
Now, he was in prison, had some major, major legal issues.
He is back on the air again, or at least online video in and around Branson, Missouri.
He's not someone I follow anymore, but it was a fascinating character.
And my point to you is don't follow Jim Baker or necessarily any religious leader.
But I do want you looking at people in pop culture, even people you don't agree with, and ask yourself,
why is this person successful?
What are they doing that's new?
What are they doing to cut through the culture?
It could be your favorite TV chef who blends genres together, or it could be some home dwelling lifestyle
guru who's really cutting through the clutter.
Watch them watch their video.
It might not have a TV show, but they'll have videos on their Facebook channel, their YouTube channel.
Watch them figure out what are they doing differently?
What are they doing that you cannot steal, but at least adapt or modify for your own presentations?
Okay, so why do I tell that story?
Part of it, it just gives people a better sense of who I am, where I came from.
I'm not someone who just grew up in Manhattan, rich, successful from the beginning.
I grew up in just what's considered kind of an average sized town.
Average part of the country here in the United States.
I didn't grow up with famous parents who were in the media.
I was like everyone else.
I'm just watching on TV and looking at stuff and figuring out what's interesting, what isn't interesting.
And I want people to realize you can find inspiration and role models all around you.
My day, it was on TV.
Today, it can be anywhere on the Internet.

--- Waiting Til the Last Minute Is Always a Bad Idea ---

It was a beautiful spring day and I found myself in Serbia.
I was in Belgrade, the capital city, and I was about to give a speech to 300 young people.
And I do what I normally do.
I was in the hotel preparing, about to print out my notes because I always believe in working from
a one page outline for a speech.
It was going to be an hour long presentation, only I got rushed, stayed out to lunch a little too
long, kind of rushed and figured, You know what, I'll just email it to my colleague Milenko, the
local PR representative who had set up the speech.
He assured me he said, TJ, no problem.
There's printers there at the facility will print it out.
So I emailed it to him, relaxed, thinking, Great, I'll have my notes.
This is going to be a great speech.
I get to the venue.
The driver brought me up there, got me out early, plenty of time, as I always like to do it.
There's milenko Milenko.
Do you have my speech?
Oh, no, I forgot.
Let me go get it.
Follow Milenko problems.
Somehow the email didn't come in.
It didn't get there.
No outline.
I don't have my computer.
It's now two minutes until I'm supposed to go on stage and speak in front of this audience.
I've never given a speech to this big of an audience without notes.
What do I do?
Well, at this point I did wing it.
Now I say I was winging it.
But I thought about what I want to say.
I had prepared.
I had made an outline.
So even though I didn't have it, the fact that I'd gone through the process of making an outline did
frame things in my brain.
So I get out there, I do give the speech.
I think it was well received.
I asked people afterwards what they remembered and they remembered my core messages as that is, as
you are going to get from this course to narrow your speech down to a handful of ideas, have a story
for each point, practice on video until you're happy with it.
So they did get it.
It was still a success, but it caused a lot of stress for me.
I don't want to kid you.
I was nervous for the first time in a long time because I'm used to that now as the answer that should
never be nervous.
Therefore, you should be thoroughly prepared and not need notes.
Know the answer.
I think the real lesson here is have your notes.
Don't wait till the last minute.
I should have had it two days in advance.
Extra copies.
So I shouldn't be relying on any other colleagues, certainly five minutes before the venue.
So that was my fault.
My mistake.
Okay.
What's the lesson there?
Be prepared.
Don't wait till the last minute.
You don't want to give yourself stress in a presentation opportunity.
You won't have everything you need well in advance.
Because even if you speak a lot, even if you're good, if you're counting on something and it isn't
there, it's going to increase your stress level.

--- Treated Like a King...And a Mark ---

If you want to be a public speaking coach, a presentation skills coach or a media trainer, you have
to treat it like a real business.
That means getting paid in advance for your work.
You're not a bank.
You shouldn't be giving people credit.
I'll never forget the time I flew into Barbados for a training.
I'd always wanted to go to Barbados.
Beautiful island.
I landed there at the airport with my name was my main contact.
Edwina, TJ.
So happy to see you.
The whole island is excited about your arrival.
She picked me up, drove me around.
We went to the dominant radio station.
I did interviews, went to the newspaper, did interviews, went and had a fabulous dinner.
I was feted like a king.
Training the next day and everything went beautifully.
Large audience, very enthusiastic.
People from major banks, major community organizations were there.
Then personal tours were set up for me.
I got to see the fancy, super fancy resort where Tiger Woods was married, had part of his honeymoon.
Got to learn about the history of the island.
Everything was just beautiful.
It was fun.
It was interesting.
I'm doing TV interviews, radio interviews, newspaper interviews.
Training goes well.
Sounds great, right?
It sounds like a fantastic experience.
My host, Edwina is.
Making sure I have no unmet need.
I don't have to worry about where I'm going.
My hotel room, meals, everything is taken care of.
Sounds great, right?
Only one problem.
When I left the island, I didn't have the check in my pocket from the training.
When I called, emailed, faxed a week later, A month later.
Two months later.
I never got paid.
That's right.
I got stiffed.
Folks, if you want to run an actual public speaking business, a presentation skills business, a media
training business, it's not a business.
Just having your ego fed, doing talk shows, being flown around, having your expenses covered.
Because they did buy my plane ticket.
It's not a business unless you actually net money and I didn't do it then.
Now that's happened very few times in my career, but it did happen then.
It was a learning experience and the experiences, the real lesson is get paid in advance.
Now you can't do it 100% of the time.
There are certain government agencies, UN agencies, it's the third largest bank in the world.
They might not pay you in advance.
Occasionally there are exceptions to the rule, but by and large your standard default position should
be if you actually want to have a business.
Get paid in advance.
Okay.
Why do I tell that story again?
I only tell that story if I'm speaking to an audience of people who want to go into my business or if
I'm speaking to students or looking at this as a career option, or if I'm speaking to Toastmasters,
people who want to figure out how to help people with presentation skills on a full time professional
basis.
A lot of people, and I made this mistake to go into this business thinking, Well, you'll just do
good work.
People will pay you, the money will come in, or you do good work, send an invoice, you'll get paid
well, no and no.
You want to get paid?
You get the money up front first.

--- A Complete and Total Meltdown ---

I was conducting a media training in the Wall Street area of Manhattan, Lower Manhattan, a few years
back, and it was with a software executive, a major software company based in Texas.
There was a PR representative who worked for the company, worked in in-house there.
Also the outside PR counsel was there.
So the four of us are in this room conducting the media training.
And I remember asking the executive GM a couple of questions.
We did the practice fine.
And while he was off in the bathroom getting ready, I told the other PR people, Let's all ask questions
and after a while let's ask some tougher questions.
We want to make sure he's actually ready for tough interviews he could face on CNBC, the Today Show
elsewhere.
So we agreed we were going to ask tough questions.
I asked a tough question or two when he came back.
Then the outside PR counsel asked a question.
I didn't even think it was particularly hard.
GM turns to her and starts screaming at her.
He's cursing.
Who are you?
You're crazy.
You're an idiot.
How dare you?
You're so disrespectful.
He just completely had a meltdown.
He went ballistic.
It was embarrassing.
For everyone.
Now, I thought about do I defend this woman and let him abuse her.
I didn't really know what to do.
To this day, I don't know if I did the right thing.
I just walked out of the room, let people cool down.
It was captured on video.
And and I, of course, gave the footage to the clients, as I always do.
What happened there?
Now, I understand the person trained had not slept, jet lagged, whatever.
I don't know.
But there's no excuse for being abusive to people.
It doesn't matter if they're media, it doesn't matter if they're reporters.
It doesn't matter if they work for you, with you in house outside.
Every presentation you give is being watched by people, whether it's on TV or not, whether the whole
world can see it, whether it gets on the Internet.
If you're talking and you're not talking alone and there's no recording, it is a presentation people
remember, especially if you're obnoxious or abusive.
This particular software executive was slated to be a star.
He was going to be sort of the poster child for a new product for this company and presented a news
media, a major talk shows all over the country.
After this outburst.
Everything cancelled.
I wasn't fired.
But all of his talk show appearances canceled.
Huge waste of time, resources, energy, money for the company.
But it was deemed just too risky to put someone like that out in front of the media.
And that was a wise call.
It was too risky.
That's why you've got to realize when you're speaking to people, whether it's a speech, a presentation,
a job interview or a media interview, no one wants to see you have a complete meltdown.
Save that for your therapist if you need to.
But you've got to treat people professionally at all times.
There can and will be repercussions to your career if you don't.
So what do I tell that story?
The main reason is I want people to act professional and polite in any presentation they give to the
media practice session, a talk with customers, clients, prospects, or even angry customers.
You've got to be polite to people because when you do lose your temper, it's so interesting.
People will remember it and talk about it years later.
I said that happened a couple of years ago.
Maybe it was more like 6 or 7 years ago and I still remember it.
That's the problem with these outbursts of anger.
I'm not saying you have to be bland, boring, never show emotion, but if you show anger to people
and it seems inappropriate, that's something they will not forget.
Now, the other reason the other message from this is I want people to realize I've been through every
kind of experience with every type of client.
So sometimes I'm in an audience talking about my business.
I want PR people, directors of communication, senior executives at companies who are thinking about
how do we bring a guy like TJ in?
I want them to feel comfortable knowing I've experienced every type of personality, every type of problem,
every profile of executive and know how to handle it.

--- There Is Always Time for Anything Important ---

There's always time for anything that's important.
If presenting well is important to you, there's time for it.
If building your presentation skills is important to you, you will find time.
I hear from executives all the time.
I'll teach you.
I'd love to practice, but there's no time.
Well, we'd love to schedule a day of training, but there's no time.
All you're really saying is that presentation skills are not important to you.
That's all you're saying.
I remember the first time I went to India.
It was around 2003, 2004, and I'm on the campus of Emphasis in Bangalore and I'm conducting a full
day training with a bunch of executives.
It's sort of a typical training.
We start at 830 in the morning.
We work through lunch, finish at five.
Now, typically when I work with executives after a long day, they're on camera or they're speaking
up and down.
There's adrenaline flows.
They're tired at the end of a long day, they say, Oh, I'm exhausted, I'm just going to go home.
Or they want to go out and have a drink with me, relax or have dinner.
And we finished the day of training.
It's 5:00, and I noticed all the executives are still sitting in their seats, but they've all done
one thing.
They've pulled out their laptop.
I went up to one.
Sanjay.
What are you doing?
We're finished.
You can go home now.
He's like, Oh, no, t.j.
I'm now going to do six hours of work right here.
Catching up on email.
I missed by being in the training mode all day.
I thought, okay, that's dedication.
That's a work ethic.
Now, this same gentleman was telling me about his experiences in the cell phone in a telephone service
in India.
He said earlier in the 90s he and his family put in an order for phone service in their house.
Took 18 months to get the order in.
Took another 18 minutes.
Months before the phone was actually installed.
A three year process just to get phone service.
And now he worked at one of the largest communications and consulting firms in the world, Infosys.
And it really drove home for me a point that if you're motivated, there's time for it.
If you're motivated, you'll work for it.
And so don't kid yourself and say there's no time to be a better presenter.
There's no time to learn presentation skills.
There's no time to rehearse.
Yeah, there's time for anything that's important to you.
So why do I drive that story home?
What message is there?
The message is, if you want to learn presentation skills, you will.
Even if you have to put your regular job off and work till midnight, it can happen.
The other thing I use this story for is if I'm speaking to young people, especially young people in
America, to drive home the point.
You're now competing with people all over the world.
There are about a billion people who speak English around the world who don't live in the United States.
And they're learning good communication skills.
A lot of times they're learning it for me.
Many of you in fact, most of you watching this course are not in the United States.
I congratulate you.
For those of you in the United States, you often had an unfair advantage because the rest of the world
wanted to do work with an American.
They wanted to do work with someone who has strong communication skills and American style English skills.
Well, guess what?
That advantage is evaporating as more and more people around the world are taking the time through this
platform and others to really learn how to communicate and present skill, present their ideas effectively,
and they're burnishing their presentation skills.
So that's the real message and that's why I tell the story.

--- Me and Mr. Rogers in '68 ---

My first brush with a media celebrity was in 1968.
I was in kindergarten and I went to my kindergarten.
One day.
There was a big assembly and we had a guest speaker.
The guest speaker was Fred Rogers, Mister Rogers of PBS Television fame.
Those of you outside of the US or those of you who are younger than 45 probably don't know who he is.
But he was a staple of children's television for decades in the United States.
He came to my elementary school, spoke for free, and I remember being in such awe of him.
My mother said my head looked down.
I couldn't even look at him.
I was so awestruck.
I stared at the floor.
I felt almost like a burning sensation and one of the most exciting things that ever happened to me
afterward, as we were leaving because parents were invited to, my father was there.
Kids chased my father around asking for his autograph.
They thought he looked like Mister Rogers, a passing resemblance.
They both had dark hair at the time and were somewhat ordinary looking white men.
But I was so excited by that.
And he's someone I watched every day for years.
In fact, he's someone I have my daughter watch occasionally.
Now fast forward about 25 years.
It's now the mid 1980s.
I'm being interviewed at FSU in Tallahassee, Florida, by a well known TV and radio talk show host
there at the time, Gary Jordan.
We finished the interview and something reminded me of Mister Rogers.
Maybe I saw his face somewhere or his image came up because he was on the air still.
And I just mentioned him in passing.
And Gary said to me, T.J., you know, that guy really is the real deal.
And Gary then told me about a time that Fred Rogers came to the station promoting a new show or book
or something.
And Gary interviewed him and then the interview was over.
Gary said, oh, thanks a lot.
Oh, and would you mind signing your poster for my daughter?
She's a big fan.
And Fred Rogers said, Sure, I'm happy to.
The next segment goes on.
He says, Goodbye.
Gary finishes his show.
It's 40 minutes later.
He walks out.
There's Fred Rogers.
Fred turns to Gary and says.
Is that Laurie with an I or an E?
It was so important to Fred Rogers to spell this kid who'd never met the kid to spell the child's name
correctly.
He waited around until the show was over, just so he could ask.
I to tell you I'm not that good of a person.
I'm not that patient.
So I really have respect for Fred, who's no longer with us.
But things like that do pay off.
And I'm not saying Fred Rogers did that to get good publicity or to have people talk about him, But
your reputation is set.
And especially when you're around media people, they talk.
They talk when you do good things like that and you show real integrity, but they also talk if it's
the opposite.
So the real lesson here is treat people the way you want to be treated.
Treat everyone the same, whether it is someone above you, a producer who can get you booked.
Help your career or the child of someone who's never going to know one way or the other.
You treat all people well and your reputation will correspond to that.
Okay.
So why do I tell that lesson?
I do this for a couple of again, the main reason is I want people to realize that you want a great
reputation.
It is built by a lot of little small acts, how you treat people.
And when it comes to communicating your brand, that is sometimes as important, even more important
than the actual messages coming out of your mouth.
So it could be something like that.
It could be just a simple matter of don't ever make people wait for you.
I might not be perfect as far as waiting 45 minutes to spell the kid's name right.
But a part of my brand is I never make people wait for me.
I don't really assume they're happy to wait for I show up on time or I'm early.
I respect people's time, so keep that in mind.
It's not just what you say, it's how you treat people, how you respect people.
That's the message.
Now a sub message of why I use this story is it just gives people a little better sense of who I am
and how.
I was a little kid like anyone else, and everybody has someone they kind of liked or admired as a kid,
and it sort of positions me.
This was in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
I'm just in a little elementary school, is my kindergarten.
And Fred Rogers happened to live in Pittsburgh in his TV studio, was in Pittsburgh, too, by the way.
First TV studio I ever went to was Mister Rogers Studio in in Pittsburgh.
But they weren't set up that day and I didn't get a tour.
One of the few regrets I have in life.

--- Presenters Don't Get Paid What They Are Worth, They Get Paid What They Ask For ---

A few years ago, I found myself in Cairo, Egypt.
I was conducting a presentation skills training in a media training workshop for a number of executives
over a period of days.
Executives who worked for a major construction company.
My client was nice enough to hire me a tour guide.
And it wasn't just any tour guide.
It was someone who was a trained Egyptologist.
Latifa was her name, and she really knew her stuff.
So I had a driver and I had the Egyptologist telling me all the significant facts about major places
we went.
We went into the Great Pyramids.
She was able to explain everything.
TJ This is where and it was just amazing, the detail.
Latifa was able to explain to me.
I really felt like it was an enriched cultural experience.
And of course I did the touristy things too, like getting up on the camel and getting my picture taken
in front of the Great Pyramids.
But I learned a lot too, about a great ancient civilization.
Went to the great museums.
She was there with me, guiding me through, and it was a true educational process and it was clear
she really knew her stuff.
She had trained for years.
Undergraduate graduate degree.
At some point I did feel compelled to ask.
I didn't know how much the whole day had cost, but it came out that the day was about $300.
And I did ask her like, Well, I'm just curious.
You have to tell me if you don't want to, but how much do you get of this?
Latifa?
She said, Oh, I get $15.
Well, I kind of felt bad and almost embarrassed.
And of course, I did give a tip, but I asked her, I was like, Why are you doing all this for some
other company?
Why don't you just market yourself, get your own customers and charge $300 and you'll have a much,
much more lucrative income.
And she told me, she said, I just never really thought about it.
I'm not much of a marketer.
Didn't have a business card.
I said, Do you have any videos of yourself?
Because you explain things beautifully.
Voice is great, easy to understand for Westerners.
I don't know why you couldn't have a big thriving business.
So before you know it, I'm pulling out my cell phone and I'm capturing videos of her explaining this
in part because I want to help her and part selfish reasons.
I just wanted more information for myself.
But I told her, You know what?
I'm going to email you all these and you can start your own website, start marketing yourself, make
20 times as much money that way.
She was very excited about this, wrote down her email, captured the videos when I got home.
I'm ready to send her the video.
Of course, I'm showing my wife, family, friends, all my great videos and I'm excited about sending
these videos to her.
And then I look at my own handwriting.
I can't make out what it was.
I guess I try to send the email, bounce back, not an email address.
So I never got the videos to her.
I didn't help her at all.
Unfortunately, she never reached out to me.
I did give her my card and she didn't reach out.
If she had, I would have sent her the videos right away.
What's the point of all this?
She's a great presenter.
She has tremendous knowledge.
Great animation, engaging voice, engaging insights, and she was making $15 a day.
Now, I'm not trying to say that money is the only thing that matters or that somehow that makes her
a bad person.
My only point is the difference between someone who makes $15 a day and $300 a day or even $15,000 a
day isn't necessarily their education level.
She has more formal education than I do.
It isn't necessarily how well they communicate or their voice or their looks.
Quite often it just comes down to are you willing to market yourself?
Are you willing to show people how well you speak?
Are you willing to ask people for money?
So the reason I point this out and the reason I tell this story is I do think that whether you are an
executive within a corporation or you're someone aspiring to be a professional speaker or trainer,
it's not enough to have the technical skills.
You have to actually be aggressive at marketing yourself, putting videos of yourself up.
I might not be the best speaker in the world.
I might not be the best trainer in the world.
But you're going to have a hard time going on YouTube and finding more presentation skills, videos,
public speaking training videos or media training videos from anyone in the entire world.
You're not going to find anyone with more videos than I have.
I'm putting myself out there.
You can go on this platform or any other and try to find someone who has more public speaking or presentation
skills courses.
You're not going to find anyone with more.
So whatever flaws I have, I'm not afraid to put myself out there.
And if you want to be successful, I believe you have to do the same.

--- Nobody Knows Anything ---

If you're presenting yourself on video, in movies, in little skits, in music, it doesn't matter
where or what.
As long as you find some core audience that likes you, even loves you, at some point, it doesn't
matter if a lot of other critics don't like you.
The screenwriter William Goldman once said, Nobody knows anything.
And what he meant is people who try to pick this as a winner, this is a hit.
This isn't they really don't know what they're talking about.
So much of it is guesswork.
I learned that in 1985, I was in Rockefeller Center having lunch.
I had just graduated from college.
I had an internship at a PR firm making the princely sum of $5 an hour.
And I'm having lunch with an executive in ad sales for NBC, the big NBC, their NBC headquarters at
Rockefeller Center.
This is a big, high powered executive.
I'm trying to impress him to maybe get a job because my internship is about to end and we're looking
outside the window where we're having lunch and there's this big crowd.
There's all this paparazzi.
People are lining up.
And he said, Look at that.
Everywhere you go, we see her.
T.J., I predict a year from now no one will even remember her name, the pop star out there on the
street.
Madonna.
She wasn't forgotten in a year.
She wasn't forgotten in a decade.
And here we are many decades later.
People still know who Madonna is.
You may love her or hate her, but there's no doubt she has staying power.
She is someone who knows how to market herself and to continue to get people talked about.
So remember, someone might not like you.
Someone might think you are just the pop fizzle of the day and going to be instantly forgotten.
If you have something that's working with some crowd, keep at it.
Certainly build your craft.
Try to expand on that.
Build your base, but don't be dissuaded by the naysayers.
If critics hate you, but you have a fan base, something's working.
Keep it up.
So why do I tell that story again?
I want people to realize that you can't simply rely on gatekeepers.
Now, gatekeepers didn't know that much.
35, 40 years ago, but they really don't know much today.
They simply don't have the power to make stars or to stop someone from becoming a star through the power
of YouTube, Facebook, social media, online courses like that, creators can give their presentation
in any format and reach audiences directly, and if there's something there, they can build a following.
So that's what I want you to do, regardless of whether you are an accountant or a home design specialist
or a wine expert, share your expertise with the world.
Listen to criticism.
By all means, you can learn from it.
But don't give up just because somebody says nobody's going to care about that person.

--- Riveted...On a Dairy Farm ---

Where were you the first time you heard someone or watch someone speak and you thought, wow, that
person has a tremendous command of the language, whether it's English or whatever your first language
is.
I remember where I was.
I was on a dairy farm in Indiana.
My uncle was a dairy farmer outside of Lafayette, Indiana.
It was the summer of 1974, and that meant the Watergate hearings were going on.
This was a huge scandal involving the United States president at the time.
There were all these congressional hearings.
And I still remember John Dean, the White House counsel.
Part of it is he did use big words to the best of my recollection.
I do not know, sir, rather than I don't remember.
But he just struck me as so articulate, so educated, so intelligent, and it sparked an interest in
me in politics, media speaking and the law.
Now, at the time and for many years, even through college, I thought I was going to go to law school.
Thankfully, I decided not to do that, but I kept my interest in media communication, public affairs.
And that's why I do think it is important to start looking around for role models.
Not that you agree with them politically, necessarily or theologically, but look for role models and
that can often motivate you to want to go deeper in your own learning when it comes to your presentation
skills.
Okay, so why do I tell that story?
I don't tell that story very often, but sometimes if I'm going to spend, for example, a couple of
days training a group of people, they do want to know more about who I am, where I came from.
So when they can envision this little boy sitting on a dairy farm watching on a little screen, it's
probably black and white.
The Watergate hearings, it just gives them a sense of where I was, how I learned, how I got interested
in this.
So it's not the most important message, but it's occasionally a piece of the puzzle to give people
a sense of who I am.

--- The World's Worst Vacuum Cleaner Salesman ---

This is a story I don't know if I've ever told anyone.
It's so embarrassing.
In college, I already thought of myself as a strong communicator.
I was a commentator for my college TV station, a commentator for my college radio station.
I wrote columns for the student newspaper.
I had run for student government and been in student government and given speeches and presentations.
I certainly thought of myself as a good, strong communicator, and I was looking for a summer job and
I thought, How can I really use my communication skills to make money, make my parents happy, make
my dad not upset with me and be able to pay for some of my college.
And so if my least spending money.
So a couple of people said, you should be in sales, you'll make more money.
I said, great.
So I saw an ad in the newspaper and it was a sales position.
I went there.
I was trained and very intensive training, charismatic training instructor, sales trainer, and I
was so excited and I brought the item to be sold home, gave the demonstration to my mother, who was
very impressed, gave the presentation to my next door neighbor, who was very impressed.
Nobody bought anything.
It was a Kirby vacuum.
Now, it certainly seemed to me then and now that it's fine vacuum.
But guess what?
I don't care anything about vacuum cleaners.
I was one of the world's worst vacuum cleaner salesman.
It just didn't work.
I no passion for it.
It didn't interest me at all.
And the idea of going from home to home to home, barging in, asking people for favors to take up their
time, leaving with nothing, potentially working all day long and making nothing, that just wasn't
something I could do.
So I quit that job after three days.
You know what I did that summer?
I cleaned out pond scum from ponds in industrial office parks.
Not glamorous at all.
And I think I made about $3.75 an hour, but it was something consistent.
In retrospect, you could make the case maybe I would have been better off muscling it out and maybe
could have made more money selling vacuum cleaners.
But I didn't want to.
I had no passion for it.
And that's my real message to you, which is if you want to be good as a presenter, you've got to believe
in what it is you're talking about.
Whether you're literally selling something like a vacuum cleaner or whether you're selling an idea,
whether you're running for office, whether you're trying to get approval for new zoning, whatever
it is you're doing, at some point you have to care about it.
Now, there can be varying degrees of caring, but if you have literally no interest in the subject
matter or the product you're selling, it's going to be virtually impossible for you to be good at it
unless you have extreme motivation.
If you've got ten children, they're all going to starve to death if you don't bring home money.
That could be motivation.
As a college student, I didn't have that motivation.
So my advice to you is there's 1,000,000 billion things you can sell products, services, policies,
beliefs, campaigns.
Find one you care about.
And it's going to be a lot easier for you to be successful at presenting it and selling it.

--- The Wrong Fit ---

I was looking for a college summer job one time and I wanted to use my presentation skills.
I saw an ad in the paper about a job where you give presentations door to door to raise money for a
community activist group.
It seemed like a good group.
They were supporting some of the same causes I cared about.
I went in for an interview and I asked the representative, So what do you believe in?
Well, we believe in a fair minimum wage for everyone, no exceptions.
Minimum wage of $5 an hour.
This was way back a long time ago.
I said, okay, by the way, what is this job pay?
This job pays $3 an hour plus you get a little extra now and then if you raise more money.
So right away it seemed a little odd to me, a little disconnect.
We're fighting for people to get minimum wage, but they didn't want to pay me minimum wage.
The next thing I'm trying to be Mr. Young Professional.
I show up in a suit and tie.
Everyone else is wearing jeans and a t shirt.
So I kind of stood out.
As odd as weird.
Well, guess what?
It just wasn't a good fit.
I lasted in that job for one day.
So what did I do that summer?
I cleaned windows at an office park, not very glamorous, didn't use my speaking skills, but it puts
some money in my pocket and I had to wait for another day to use my communication skills.
Why did I tell that story?
I want you to realize there needs to be a good fit with what you do, what you're presenting.
It's very hard to just have generic presentation skills that are going to be great in every situation,
every job, every product you're selling.
You need to feel good about it.
You need to feel comfortable.
I just felt a disconnect.
I didn't feel like the people who ran this community organization were bad.
It just didn't feel right and I decided to leave.
Now I went to something where washing windows, I can't tell you.
I learned a lot of great lessons from there.
But the real lesson I hope for you is don't just settle for the first thing that comes along.
Don't just settle for the first opportunity when it comes to using your speaking and your presentation
skills.
Really look around and find something that's a good fit.
And these days you have so many options as far as selling your own services, your own music, your
own ideas, your own blog, your own online course.
Find something you really care about.
It's going to be so much easier for you to be really persuasive because if you believe it, that's half
the battle.

--- The Lowest Arena for Presentation Skills ---

Wow, this is really embarrassing.
This is a story just for you.
I don't tell my live audiences this.
I'm not sure I've ever told anyone other than a close friend this, but my first professional speaking
job of sorts was in a boiler room operation.
I was 18 years old, had just graduated from high school.
I was in Charlotte, North Carolina, and this was a summer job before I went into college.
It was a boiler room selling timeshare condominiums.
So my job was to call people up and say, Congratulations, you may have won either a brand new television,
a vacation to some exotic place or a quarter carat diamond.
Now, as far as I know, I didn't break any laws.
And if I did, the statute of limitations is long past, since this was 1981 when this occurred.
The I guess scammy part of it was everyone got the quarter carat diamond and a quarter carat diamond
of this quality cost about $0.50 or a dollar.
The whole idea was to get people to come pick up their prize and hear a sales pitch to go buy a timeshare.
A couple of lessons I learned from this.
Number one, cold calling can work.
If you just make enough calls, a certain percentage of people will say yes, and it may be far less
than 1%.
If you keep your costs low enough, it doesn't matter of those people who show up for a sales pitch,
a certain percentage will buy.
So that is one lesson.
Just cold calling does work.
We were going through the phone book for certain affluent zip codes.
That was it.
The second big lesson is cold calling is a horrible existence.
It's so boring.
It's so you feel dirty almost interrupting people dinner time.
It's obnoxious.
It feels obnoxious.
So if you're going to be giving presentations for a living, I do not recommend giving presentations
over the phone pitching.
It's simply not enjoyable.
I understand some people have to do it.
It's the only job they can get, but it shouldn't be anyone's first choice.
It's simply not fun.
And the final big lesson is it's so much easier to give presentations to people who actually want to
hear your presentation.
This is easy for me right now because you wouldn't be here if you hadn't actively typed in present nation
skills and found this course and then actively clicked to enroll and then actively pulled out your credit
card or some other form of payment and bought the course.
So you want to be here.
So it's much easier for me to do this because I know I have kind of a warm, friendly audience.
And in fact, your comments are overwhelmingly positive and effusive, and I appreciate that.
So that's the real lesson.
Don't be knocking heads and butting and trying to push messages these days.
Have good messages.
Give your presentation and try to do it in a way where people want your messages.
You'll be much more effective.
You'll enjoy it a lot more to.

--- Presentation Skills On Video Will Sell You ---

There is power in presentation, live in person, but also on video.
These days it's never been easier to present on video.
And yet still most people don't do it.
Even more so decades ago.
Way back in 1997, I was struggling in New York trying to be a talk show host, political commentator.
Little training on the side, but really, frankly, kind of struggling, living in a commune.
I decided to scrape together just the last few dollars I had, and I made a media training video just
with an old VHS camera, poorly edited, but I made a video five, seven minutes long, demonstrating
media training principles.
I had someone stage being caught off guard and me bombarding them with tough questions and them looking
bad.
It really wasn't very good.
I don't even have the video anymore, but I took every last remaining penny I had and I made duplicates
of this VHS one at a time.
I think it cost about $3 each, and I mailed it to every PR firm in New York City at the time.
Really cleaned me out.
I had nothing left.
I was just hoping to make something from this.
I then called every PR firm in town.
It was about 300.
Out of those 300, I got a response from three.
I went and met with those three firms.
Every one of them hired me.
One guy hired me.
Training went well.
He then retired, never heard from him again.
Another woman's PR firm hired me.
They used me, oh, half a dozen times over the next couple of years.
But another firm hired me.
And I'll never forget.
I asked the woman who owned the firm.
Oh, tell me, what did you like about the video?
What made you decide to hire me?
She said, Oh, TJ, I never watched the video.
I just assumed because you had a video, you were a professional.
She hired me.
She hired me again and again.
And I worked with her for the next 20 years.
In fact, when you look at the revenues I got from her clients and spin off business, it's probably
way in excess of half a million, maybe closer to $1 million at this point.
It came.
From one video.
Now, I did that in a time when, frankly, few people, especially a few media trainers, were putting
together demo tapes on video.
These days, everyone can.
It's so much easier making video.
Everyone has video cameras, everyone has access to YouTube.
Anyone can post an online course right here.
And yet most people don't.
Most people still deliver their presentations, their sales pitch over the phone in person one on one,
but then tell themselves, Oh, you know, I don't have the skills it takes to be on camera or I don't
look polished enough nonsense.
Now, I'm not saying just having a video is enough to get you hired.
These days, people will look at video, maybe just for 10s online with one click.
It's not like the old days where you had to pull it out of a box.
Get down on your hands and knees, see if the VCR is hooked up the right way.
It's a lot easier to watch video, so you can't just send out a blank video, which I guess I could
have done.
But it's also easier to make good video.
And after going through courses like these and other media training courses, you can look comfortable,
confident and relaxed.
So even though the tools are easier than ever, cheaper than ever, distribution is easier.
Look around.
My bet is that most competitors in your industry, in your field, it doesn't matter if it's consulting,
finance, banking, energy or politics.
Most of your competitors aren't doing this.
So if you want to have a lot more impact with your presentations, my advice capture your presentations
on video.
Then people can see it anywhere, any time, sometimes years later.
So why do I tell that story?
Obviously, I'm trying to motivate people to not just give better in-person presentations, but to capture
their presentations on video.
Because when you do that, you're going to hold yourself to higher standards.
You're probably going to look at it.
It's going to motivate you to get better and to improve.
And that's the real goal.

--- Showing Up On Time and Avoiding Drama ---

I'm in Rockefeller Center in midtown Manhattan and I'm trying to walk into a restaurant only it's completely
surrounded by TV cameras.
Reporters, the paparazzi are there.
I've never seen so many cameras, but I'm supposed to be in there to meet a client and to meet a guy
who's head of a PR firm.
So I finally wormed my way in, get to see Max.
And I said, Oh, is your celebrity spokesperson here?
He says, Not yet.
She'll be here in a minute.
In walks Kim Kardashian.
And I have to tell you, I was frankly a little surprised because she has such this big outsized image
in popular culture, Seeing her in person again, you can say, TJ, who are you to judge people on
their appearances?
She was just ordinary looking below average in height, certainly not thinner than the average person.
Just nothing particularly special about looking glamorous, anything like that.
The press conference starts and it was a press conference to announce a new diamond company selling
diamonds in the United States.
And Kim Kardashian was showing a giant diamond.
I don't know if it's 18 carats.
So it was huge, Huge, huge.
One of the reporters says, Kim, have you ever seen a diamond that big before?
And she says, oh, yeah, actually, my girlfriend has one that's three times as big or something like
that, completely off message.
You could see the client was sort of looking with their eyes big, like, that's not supposed to happen.
But still, all the paparazzi were there.
Every kind of TV camera, every tabloid.
She did her job of getting people there.
When it was done, I spoke to Max, the PR person who put this all together.
I said, Max, I don't really get it.
Why is she such a big draw?
It doesn't seem to be a huge talent.
She didn't stick to message.
Doesn't really look that different from the average person on the street.
Why is she so successful?
And Max turned to me and said, TJ, it's simple.
She's a total pro.
She all because he had used her many times for other clients too.
He said, TJ she always shows up on time.
Prepared.
There's no drop.
You may see drama on the TV show the Kardashians.
There's no drama at all for the client.
There's no drama on the business end.
She shows up.
She knows more or less what to say.
Most of the time she cooperates with everyone.
She's nice to everyone.
Never late.
No one's waiting.
No tantrums.
Total pro.
Why do I say that?
I want you to realize there is more to being successful as a communicator than just having pizzazz or
having a great sound bite or having a certain look.
You need a certain element of professionalism where you're whether you're going to be a public speaker,
a spokesperson dealing with the media, a media celebrity.
There are certain intangible things I say, intangible.
They are tangible.
You can measure them if someone makes you wait 20 minutes, they've now wasted 20 minutes of your time.
If there are ten people on the set, there's now been 200 minutes wasted.
So that's why it's important to be extraordinarily professional.
Be polite.
Be nice.
Show up on time or early, which is what I prefer.
And then if you're not overwhelmingly talented in every other area, the strengths you have on the professionalism
side can make up for it.

--- It Can't Get Any Worse Than This ---

A couple of decades ago, I had just moved to New York City and was frankly very poor.
I had invited to give a speech at a political organization, a political club.
It happened to be the same political party I was a part of.
It happened to be the same political party that the president of United States belong to.
And at the time, I was also doing political commentary, talking about politics a great deal.
I thought this will be a great way to introduce myself to the new city.
Had only been here for a couple of months and I brought my video camera to demonstrate everything.
So I went gave this speech and I noticed right at the beginning there was lots of stony faces that I
was saying more and more positive things about the incumbent president who was in the party that the
members of this club were devoted to and people were looking angry.
I'm starting to make fun of the incumbent president's political opponents thinking, well, that'll
get them on my side.
And they just got angrier.
After a while, they practically booed me off the stage.
Some lady came up to me afterwards, that young man, how long have you been here and why do you think
we want to hear from someone like you?
It's just a disaster.
No applause not even a thank you.
And just people kind of walking off.
So what happened?
Well, it just so happened that every community can be a little different.
And New York City, especially Manhattan, is different from any other place in the United States.
I had been living in Florida, North Carolina the rest of my life, and I didn't know that much about
Manhattan.
And in Manhattan, the politics are much more skewed.
And so you do find people on more extreme.
So even though I was speaking to a political club of a certain party, they didn't like that incumbent
president because they didn't think he was pure enough to their ideals.
So they only wanted to hear someone who was going to bash and attack the president of their own party.
And they happened to be someone I liked.
So, by the way, I'm not trying to be cute.
I'm not mentioning the party in the person, because what I have found is the second you do that, everyone
looks at you through a different lens.
And if they like that politician than they like you, but they didn't like that politician, they'll
end up hating me.
So that's why I'm being a little bit vague, even though I don't generally recommend that when telling
stories.
So I walked away from that, totally dejected.
And I remember at the time it was April 1st, nineteen ninety six.
I had just moved to town a few months earlier.
They practically spat on me.
It was that bad.
So I'm walking away carrying my video camera, my little briefcase.
I'm slumbering away, walking across town because I couldn't even afford bus fare, cab fare home.
I was that kind of down and out, I figure it can't get any worse than this, I'm walking.
All of a sudden I look up.
It starts snowing on me in April.
I'm now freezing.
I have no gloves and I have an overcoat on.
I'm carrying that stuff and I'm thinking, wow, I never should have moved away from Florida was definitely
one of my worst speaking days ever.
But you know what?
You learn from that or you go home and quit.
I obviously didn't go home and quit.
I didn't do enough due diligence.
I should have gotten there earlier, really talk to people, find out who they liked, who they respected,
what they thought of the current political environment, what they thought of the incumbent president.
So that was my fault.
I didn't do enough due diligence.
I just made assumptions about the audience.
Never a good thing to do.
So why do I tell that story?
Pretty obvious, I just want people to do more research on their audience before they give presentations
so they are not surprised by a negative reaction from the audience because they misjudged the audience.
You can't do it perfectly every time, but you can get there early and ask questions that will allow
you to tweak your message in a way that may resonate.
I'm not suggesting you just tell any audience what they want to hear, but certainly if, you know,
certain subjects are going to scare away people or distract them or make them hate you, maybe you want
to go in another direction.

--- Diamonds And Gold for You! ---

When you are giving presentations, abstraction is your enemy.
What do I mean by that?
When I say abstractions, I just mean concepts, especially ones you can't visualize.
What happens when I say think of abandoned property?
What does that mean to you?
I've asked that question to many people in the past, and everyone gave a slightly different answer
or just said, I don't know, an old, decrepit house that people ran away from.
It means different things to different people.
Well, back when I was 23 years old, just out of college, I got a job as a press secretary for a Florida
politician.
He was the Florida comptroller.
It was a statewide elected position.
And he regulated the banks, the security firms.
But there was also this tiny little division within the organization that regulated abandoned property.
What that meant was if you had a checking account and you died, you didn't take the money out.
It's abandoned.
You're not there to get it.
No one else claimed it.
The bank has to hold it.
They have to give it back.
They have to make it publicly available to the state to give back to the rightful owner.
Same with security deposits for electricity, energy companies, lighting light companies.
They're not allowed to keep that money.
They have to give it back.
Also in banks, there are safety deposit boxes.
So if it's 20 years have gone by and no one's come to open the safety deposit box, then the bank has
to make some effort to find someone who is an heir or has a right to that.
That's abandoned property as regulated by that particular organization I worked for.
Now chances are you're halfway asleep.
Right now you're about to click to the next video.
Bear with me.
There is a payoff here.
So the politician I was working for was trying to get publicity to boost his name ID to run for re-election
in Florida, where it's expensive to advertise.
In the past, the organization had always just bought a full page ad.
Everyone's name who is owed property is put in all the major newspapers, and they would spend hundreds
of thousands of dollars on advertising and you'd have to look through the newspaper to see if your name
was there.
And maybe it would get one small little story print story about two sentences long, not much of a PR
bonanza.
So I thought to myself, How can we get more mileage out of this?
How can we make this more exciting?
How can we get more media attention?
And I thought the problem was, okay, abandoned property, it's too many.
It's everything.
You can't visualize money in a bank account from an old check.
You can't visualize it for the safety deposit box.
If it's just deeds to property, you can't really visualize that.
So I asked the person in charge of abandoned property, What do you have?
Because they actually had a safe where it was and I walked in.
There are all kinds of junk.
But I asked Harry, what's valuable here?
And he said, TJ, we've got gold coins, we've got watches, we've got all sorts of things.
We've got diamonds, diamond rings, we've got a lot of junk jewelry, a lot of safety.
We walked all through that and I thought, how can we get some attention here?
And that's when I said, okay, let's hold a press conference and all we're going to do is show all
the diamond rings because there were dozens, if not hundreds of them.
So I asked Harry to just bring from the safe the diamond rings, the diamond jewelry.
And then I put out a press release saying, State of Florida wants to give you free diamond rings.
And guess what?
Every single TV reporter in the capital came and all the other reporters came.
And it was a slow news day and it got on.
Every single broadcast politician thought I was a genius.
Well, it wasn't genius.
It's just a matter of not being abstract.
Coming up with a specific example that someone can see it, taste it, feel it, touch it, think about
it.
People like looking at diamonds.
They like talking about diamonds.
Nobody sits around and talks about abandoned property.
No one says, Hey, let's go to an abandoned property store at the mall.
They do like to go to Diamond Jewelry stores at the mall.
Fast forward a month later.
I said, You know what?
Let's do the same thing.
Milk it for more.
Only this time.
Gold coins, rare coins.
Basically the same press release I just substituted diamonds for rare coins.
We found a couple of 1910 silver dimes and a few things that were valuable, but a lot of other coins,
gold coins, other currencies.
And we stacked them all up for the press.
Again, TV coverage, print coverage, a lot of coverage.
Fast forward to the next month.
Guess what we did?
Now watch is every kind of watch.
Grandfather watch, pocket watch, you name it.
More and more attention by focusing on one thing at a time, one visual.
It allowed us to present our ideas.
To the media in a way that was, frankly more interesting.
Little more dramatic, something more relatable.
So please keep that in mind.
Abstraction is your enemy when you're giving a presentation, whether it's to live audiences or the
media, it's better to focus on one thing at a time that people can see, taste, touch, feel than
to talk about every single thing under a broad umbrella.
Okay, so why do I use that story again?
I'm a little cautious about that because it makes it sound like I think I'm so brilliant.
So I've got to be I don't use it that often for that reason.
I have to make sure it doesn't make me sound like I'm the hero of the story because it's frankly not
that brilliant an idea.
But no one had done it before, and it generated tons and tons of publicity.
And I just want people to think about if you're presenting an idea to the media, especially what is
visual, you can actually see diamonds.
You can't see money from a checking account.

--- Larry King's Public Speaking Secret ---

I was at a talk radio convention one time.
I bumped into a friend, Jim Bohannon, a much more successful talk radio show host than I ever was.
And we were chatting and he mentioned Larry King.
I said, Oh, you know, Larry, He says, Well, yeah, we've worked for the same radio network for
years and years and years.
We had the same office for many years.
I would see him, I'd see him speak all the time.
I said, Oh, wow, Larry King That must have been interesting.
What's it like seeing Larry King give a speech in person?
He said, Oh, T.J., it's just so awful.
It's so boring.
Every time I saw Larry, I'd go to the back of the room, find a table, crawl underneath it, take
a nap.
So that's kind of disappointing.
I thought Larry would be better than that as a speaker.
You know, I'm just curious, what was the reaction from the audience?
He said, oh, always the same.
Laughter, tears, cheers, applause, standing ovation and a $50,000 check on his way out the door,
said Jim.
It's kind of a contrasting reaction.
I don't understand it, said T.J..
He gave the same darn speech every single time, the same anecdotes, and it got laughs every time people
remember it.
They talked about it.
I'd heard it a thousand times.
What's the real lesson here?
Larry was smart enough to know that if you're on TV every night, it's the same audience.
Well, you can't say the same thing.
But if he's giving a speech at some major National Trade Association convention, that's probably the
only time most of those people will ever see him in person.
Speaking so he can give them his best stuff.
He told the same stories every time.
And he gave his audience the best stuff.
Now, was it interesting to Larry to say the same thing each time?
Probably not.
But what interested him is he got that big paycheck to go out the door with.
That's what works for him.
So remember this.
If you want to be a great communicator, a great presenter, it's not about you.
It's not about whether you find it interesting.
You have to give your audience the best material you have.
Okay, so why do I give that story?
Why do I use that?
This works for public speaking workshops as well as media training workshops because a big problem a
lot of people have is they do media interviews and they want to say something different each time because
it's not interesting to them to repeat themselves.
And then every article has different messages coming through.
Well, that's horrible.
That's no way to really communicate a message to the audience as you care about, you need some consistency.
Same thing with speaking.
Sometimes someone will give a great speech to one regional office and Mobile, Alabama.
One day they got to give another speech to the identical sort of crowd in the Atlanta office.
Two days later, they completely changed their speech.
So all the stuff that worked really well in Alabama, now they're giving all new stuff to Atlanta.
And it's not very good when you have content that works and you're speaking to different audiences,
reuse what you know is your best stuff.
That is the message of this story, the whole point of this story.

--- A Story I Don't Tell Anywhere Else But Here ---

Okay.
This is embarrassing.
I really don't tell this story from the platform or to my audiences when I'm training professionally
around the world, But I'm going to share this with you because if you're here in this course, this
spot, you're pretty die hard because we're deep into this course.
The analytics on this course show me that at this point, about 98% of the people who signed up for
this course aren't watching.
So I want to give you a reward for being with me at this point.
Here's the situation.
I was almost implicated in a male prostitution scandal.
Now, before we get ahead of ourselves, let me make very clear, I've never been a male prostitute
or to imagine this is why I don't like telling this story.
I don't like having to tell people I've never been a male prostitute.
That sounds a little sketchy right there.
But here's the situation.
When I was in high school, there was a very popular teacher.
Named Jesse Campbell.
Everybody liked him.
He had a master's degree from Duke.
I ended up going to Duke.
He was the student council advisor, and he knew me.
I knew him very sociable.
After I graduated from high school, I went back to my high school, so I would have been 19.
This was the summer of 1982 and I was having lunch with another teacher, my favorite English teacher
in the teacher cafeteria.
Jesse sat down.
We started chatting.
He said, Hey, how do you like Duke?
Oh, Jesse, that's great.
And then he said, Hey, do you have a job this summer?
I said, No, I'm looking for one.
He said, Great, I have a plan.
He was a biology teacher and an expert on plants and horticulture.
He said, I have a plant shop in the local amusement park.
Hey, you're a good looking guy.
This is a long time ago.
Hey, you're a good looking guy.
You'll bring in the ladies, come work for me.
Gave me his number.
I called him.
Didn't hear from him, called him a couple more times.
A week passed.
I needed a job.
I kind of forgot about it.
And I think I even left a message on his voicemail.
In fact, I know I did, but I forgot about it.
A couple of weeks go by, I'm now doing some kind of moving or manual labor job that isn't very exciting.
I'm at home after a long week of manual labor, half asleep on the couch, TVs on all of a sudden it's
the news.
All of a sudden, Jesse's face flashes up.
News flash Man Arrested in Charlotte for Running Male Prostitution Scheme.
Jesse Campbell, well known popular teacher at Myers Park High School in Charlotte, arrested today
running a male prostitution ring.
It's believed he ran the ring out of the young men who worked for him at the amusement park.
Carowinds Next day, front page story.
And it's mentioning men implicated.
So my greatest fear is there's this story about this guy is arrested.
Here are the five prostitutes who worked for him.
And here's the sixth guy who was going to start on Tuesday.
And his name is T.J. Walker.
That was my fear.
And at the moment, at that point in my life, I had aspirations to be in the Senate and be president
and all these things.
And I'm thinking, wow, my whole life is over and I'm only 19 years old.
I basically shut the curtains.
And at home I told him, my family don't answer the phone.
I didn't say why.
And I was frankly scared.
Now, at my day job doing some manual labor.
Another friend of mine was there who also went to high school with me.
He's like, Hey, I heard from the police today.
They're going through Jesse's house and calling every number that's in the house and interviewing people.
And I had my interview and they asked me about this and this, and I'm thinking, Oh, no, I know he
has my phone number.
I left it on the voicemail.
I wrote it down and gave it to him.
It's only a matter of time until the police call me.
The police never called.
I was never in any headlines.
I was not implicated as a male prostitute.
It seems funny now, but at the time it was scary.
Here's the thing.
When you are a part of a story, are you think you're going to be a part of a story and you can't control
it.
It's scary.
So I get it.
When you and a lot of my clients fear speaking to the media because you fear loss of control.
You fear saying something stupid that will be taken out of context, possibly ruin your career because
it can ruin careers.
In this case, I hadn't said anything to the media, but I was concerned about just being a part of
a story.
People do lose their careers because of dumb things they say or stories they're implicated in.
So it's a very real fear.
I felt the fear and I can understand why you do to.
Okay, so why do I tell that story at some point?
It's a way of humanizing me because it's sort of comical now and I didn't do anything bad.
But it's comical seeing this this little goody two.
And I was a goody two shoes hiding, closing the curtains, saying, don't answer the phone, being
afraid of being caught in a male prostitution scandal.
But it also drives home the point that it's totally normal to fear how you're portrayed in the media.
People come to me to learn how to present themselves to the news media as well as live audiences.
So I want them to understand that I get their nervousness.
I get their fear because I've been there, too.

--- The Best Worst Presentation I Ever Saw ---

I was attending a regional Toastmasters convention in Westchester, New York.
It's a suburb just north of New York City.
I was conducting a training session with Toastmasters there, but now I was in a room with everyone.
There was a competition going on.
A speaker comes out and his speech title was something like.
Children and puppies are nice.
I mean, it seemed that saccharin, that generic and frankly, that boring to me.
I thought, well, let me give him a chance.
He starts to speak, and sure enough, it's like puppies are the most wonderful thing in the world.
And I like children.
And I'm thinking, Oh my gosh, this is embarrassing.
It's hard to even look, I've never heard so many boring, trite cliches in a speech.
This is going to be awful.
I feel bad for the guy, he continues.
And it's more about, you know, give everybody a hug and.
Smell the flowers and the coffee and just every kind of trite cliche you can imagine.
It's going on and it just seems like it's going on forever.
I can barely look at this train wreck.
I'm just imagining when it's done and the stone silence this speaker is going to receive how awkward
it's going to be for the speaker especially, but everyone.
Finally he finishes and I'm just cringing.
I'm almost wincing.
And then all of a sudden, there was the reaction.
Laughter Cheers.
Lots and lots of applause.
A standing ovation.
The audience absolutely love this guy.
So what are we to make from this?
Well, one thing you need to take away is I'm not necessarily the best audience for this guy's speech,
certainly, but your speech either you can't appeal to everyone.
You need to know your audience.
You're not going to please everyone.
That speaker didn't please me.
I thought he was boring, trite, insipid, and a total waste of time.
Everybody else loved him, and that's what matters for him.
So keep that in mind.
You're not going to please everyone all the time.
And as long as you are speaking to the audience that you care about, I wasn't really the intended audience.
Also, realize you may hate a speaker.
You can't discount them just because you don't like them.
You have to look at the audience to really get a sense of how it's playing.
Okay, so why do I tell that story?
A couple of reasons.
I.
One big problem a lot of speakers have is when they tell stories, they make themselves out to be the
hero, the problem solver, the one who came up with a brilliant solution each time.
So I do think there's a danger in that.
So when you're telling stories, quite often, at least half the time, you.
You need to make yourself the dummy and do it in a real way.
This actually happened this way.
I was the one out of sync with the audience.
I was the one who didn't read the room properly and didn't perceive him the way everyone else did.
And another message from this story is just to realize you shouldn't strike off anyone just because
you don't like their style or even their message.
You need to really listen, figure out what you can from that person.
It's not that you're going to copy them or do everything the way they did, but there's something about
what they did that might have worked that could work for you too, in the future.

--- And The Winner of The Worst Dressed Award Is... ---

I'm in Bangkok, Thailand, and I'm conducting a media training for a group of executives.
And we're at the part where I'm talking about dressing for TV, looking your best, not being distracting.
One of the clients is standing up, speaking.
We're recording it.
We're watching it.
As I'm watching it, I look down at my own feet and I realize, Oh no, I'm wearing two different shoes
and they don't match.
I look up, I hope no one notices.
I look down again.
It gets worse.
I'm wearing mismatched socks.
One is brown, one is blue.
I'm thinking, Oh, no, it can't get worse than this.
I look down again, I've got coffee stains on my shirt.
So what did I do?
Well, for starters, I didn't talk about it.
I didn't apologize.
I didn't want to bring attention to it.
I simply focused on helping the person I was training.
Now, on this particular day, I wasn't in the spotlight.
I wasn't on camera.
My trainees were clients or the ones on camera.
They were the ones in the spotlight, not me.
So big lesson there.
Try to dress better than I do.
And I am colorblind, by the way, although I'm not completely colorblind.
Red, green, deficient.
I shouldn't have done that.
And it doesn't excuse having coffee stains on your shirt.
So focus on actually helping people.
And if you do screw up visually, they might not notice.
If you are in the spotlight, if you're on TV, if you are on the stage, people will notice that.
So you need to give more attention.
Give yourself a real once over before you're in front of people.
But if you're not in the spotlight, I realize at some level people don't care what you look like.
They're more focused on themselves.
If you help people look their best and sound their best, they might not even notice what you're wearing
or care what you're wearing.

--- This Superstar Is So Happy To See Me ---

One of the best presentation skills you can ever develop is making other people feel special.
About ten years ago, I'm at a friend's house cocktail party in Manhattan, and in walks Dick Cavett,
who was one of the most famous people in all of America in the 1970s.
And 80s had his own nightly TV talk show network TV has interviewed every single famous person in the
world.
And I had told my friend who was throwing the party that I really liked, respected and admired Dick
Cavett.
Dick Cavett happened to be her neighbor who lived right upstairs.
She invited him to the party.
And I think at the last second she said, Hey, my friend TJ really likes you.
So what did he do?
He walked in.
She pointed me out to him, and in front of everyone, he goes like this.
Hear here.
That's fantastic.
You made it.
Now, he had no idea who I was, but it was funny to everyone else.
They're like, Wow.
Dick Cavett sure is excited to see TJ.
So it was interesting to them.
It was a colorful way of him making an entrance to the room.
It wasn't him acting like the big shot.
Well, now I'm here and everyone can ask for my autograph.
It made him seem humble.
He was able to put a little bit of a spotlight on me.
It made me feel good.
Here I am talking about it ten years later.
So it's a real act of grace and charm on his part.
Now, he didn't know my name then.
He certainly doesn't know my name now, but it cost him nothing.
He didn't even have to take the time to learn my and I'm not criticizing him for that.
So it was a great, classy way of making someone else feel good.
Communicating with people and making an entrance in a room so it doesn't work for all of us.
But at some point, if you do get a certain level of fame and people are excited to meet you, it's
a great tip to use.

--- Going Into a Talking Career By Being Told 'Don't Talk' ---

It's amazing.
I went into the career I did because certainly there was nothing in my grade school education to prepare
me for this.
In fact, it discouraged me from speaking.
I went to Starmount Elementary Public Elementary School in Charlotte, North Carolina, and there was
a huge, huge premium on not talking.
Just don't talk in the bathroom.
Don't talk in the hallway, don't talk at lunch, believe it or not.
So we were told not to talk in the classroom unless it was a specific time if a teacher addressed you.
So I remember once I was in second grade in Mrs. Smith's class, and she said, okay, class, put your
books away.
Put your pencils away.
We're now going to focus on science or whatever the topic was.
And I saw my buddy next to me, didn't hear.
He was still reading away writing.
I said, Hey, Billy, The teacher said, We've got to put our books away.
And before I could finish.
She said, Little Timmy, what are you doing?
Are you talking?
Guess what?
Here's your punishment.
I told you not to talk in class.
You're punishment is you have to write every single word in the spelling book 50 times.
Now, that was a little goody two shoes.
Anyway, in class, I was already a pretty quiet kid, but this was like a death sentence.
I could imagine being there 20 years later.
I wouldn't finish writing every single word in the spelling book 50 times.
Thankfully, my mother, who was a great mom and a great champion of mine, went to the school, went
to the teacher.
This is ridiculous.
All he was doing was telling his friend, time to do something else.
And she got me a reprieve.
I did not have to write every word 50 times.
What's the point here?
I think the point is you need to be careful, especially with young people.
But even if it's an executive in your company or organization about too much negativity, tell someone,
Oh, that's a horrible speech.
That's so boring.
You could scar them for life.
You could convince people, Oh, speaking isn't for me.
I shouldn't do that.
Fortunately, I didn't let that experience scar me.
What I do remember it almost 50 years later.
So be careful when you try to snuff out someone's interest in speaking, presenting, talking.
It can leave scars.
Okay, so why do I tell that story?
I just try to give people a sense of who I am.
A little background.
I don't use this story that often, but sometimes when I'm doing a two day workshop with someone, they
want to go more in depth, who I am, experiences I have.
It gives them a little more flavor of who I am and my general approach to teaching people.
My approach is very positive.
I stress, Here's what you're doing.
Well, let's do more of it.
I don't let people just attack themselves.
I don't just come in and tell them everything that's wrong or boring.
So it's about the general approach of be positive.
Don't try to stamp out someone's enthusiasm by giving them a lot of criticism.

--- My First and Favorite Motivational Speaker ---

In general, I don't like a lot of motivational speakers, I hear.
I find them cheesy, trite, and frankly, most of them say the same old thing.
But there is one motivational speaker I'll never forget.
It was my first motivational speaker I ever heard, and I still think she's the best one I ever heard.
It was my mother.
Now, my mother was not in any traditional sense a motivational speaker.
She was trained as a school teacher, but was mostly a mom and a full time homemaker the whole time
I was a kid.
But she did speak to me every day.
And I remember from the earliest days when I had to be 2 or 3 years old and she did this for years holding
me, telling me, you are the smartest boy in the whole world.
You are the smartest boy in the whole universe.
And then I would say, What about the world?
She'd say, You're the smartest boy in the whole world.
I'd say, What about the universe?
She'd say, You're the smartest boy in the whole universe.
Now, chances are.
She wasn't factually correct.
Chances are she wasn't accurate.
But it did give me tremendous confidence when I went to first grade and second grade and junior high
school and high school and beyond.
At a certain level, it does stick.
I do think of myself as I don't know about the smartest boy in the whole world, but I do think of myself
as smart, as capable, as intelligent.
And it was just a very, very positive, nurturing environment.
And she definitely was sincere.
She definitely believed it.
She was definitely my greatest champion ever.
And later.
And she passed away a handful of years ago.
But she did come to work for me and promoted me in my own business and did my bookkeeping and was very
much an important part of my life until she passed away at age of 75.
So thank you, mom.
There is a role for motivational speakers, especially when they're sincere and specific and there's
some connection to you.
So why do I tell that story?
I don't tell that story very often, but I am asked from time to time What's the difference of a good
motivational speaker and a bad one?
There's some lessons there.
The main reason I tell that is I do think that human beings are much more open to learning with positive
reinforcement.
So when I'm doing a media training, a public speaking training, a presentation skills training, I
am trying to overwhelm people with positive reinforcement on what they're doing well.
I'm trying to push out the weaknesses.
What's bad?
But I found the problem with traditional presentation skills courses is the all knowing expert comes
in, captures someone on video once and just says, Here's 27 things you're doing wrong, and they may
be accurate, but emotionally it's so overwhelming to people, they just sort of give up and say, Well,
I'm not a speaker.
This is an interesting course today.
The teacher is great, but I shouldn't speak.
That's not a good training.
That's why I do believe in the positive reinforcement method and to some extent I give credit to that.
Any success I have is from that first motivational speaker I ever heard my own mom.

--- Some People Just Watch To Hear You Present For The Entertainment ---

I was running late.
I was about to dash into the huge auditorium in the Meadowlands in New Jersey.
This was the second day of a three day Anthony Robbins workshop seminar.
And I noticed there were all these people outside smoking, all of them.
And I hope this doesn't sound like I'm being mean or catty or biased.
All of them profoundly overweight, all of them chain smoking.
And somehow I found myself talking, even though I was late.
I talked to a few of them and they all said the same thing.
They said, Oh, Tony Robbins is great.
We love his stuff.
We go to all his seminars, we travel all around the country, going to all of his workshops.
And I think I didn't say anything, but I thinking, well, it doesn't seem to be working because he
spends a lot of time telling people how to use NLP to stop smoking, get to the proper weight, be successful.
And it sure seemed like it wasn't working at all.
What's the point here?
It's not to bash Anthony Robbins.
I think he's very good at what he does.
I don't love every aspect of it.
It's a little too touchy feely for me, you know, turn around and give people you don't know massages.
But still, he reaches a lot of people, has a huge fan base.
He's truly a great public speaker.
But the point is nothing works on everyone.
There have been people who've come to my public speaking workshops.
I think I'm the greatest public speaking coach and media training coach in the world.
But sometimes someone will come.
Two months later, they give a speech and it's awful and it's boring and they didn't improve at all.
So one message here is you have to realize nobody's 100%.
Nobody is going to completely influence and transform every audience they speak to or every audience
member.
The other big message here to remember is some people who hear you speak are going to focus on the entertainment
value for this group of people, I think.
Again, I could be wrong.
I think they just enjoyed the show of Anthony Robbins.
He is entertaining.
He is interesting.
There is funny.
There is drama, There is emotion.
Now, I'm not asking you to be Anthony Robbins when you're giving the quarterly finance report in front
of your board of directors.
But I do want you to think at least about how can you be as engaging as possible.
Because some people are not going to absorb the intellectual part, but will take away a positive sense
of how you engage them.

--- Cult Leaders Have Great Presentation Skills ---

You want to be a great communicator, a great presenter, a great speaker.
My advice?
Look for as many different opportunities as possible to hear different types of speakers.
Even if you don't necessarily agree with them.
In 1993, a friend of mine told me about, I guess you could say, talked me in to going to a cult meeting.
This was an est meeting, a three day weekend workshop.
It was then called The Forum.
And look, if you're a big fan of the forum and you don't want them called a cult.
Sorry, but it is very cult like in many, many aspects.
So this is an offshoot or the latest incarnation of an organization called Asked Earnhardt Seminar Trainings,
which was extremely popular in the United States and around the world in the 1970s.
And you get a very strong, charismatic leader in the front of the room, hundreds of people.
And it's basically public speaking and sharing for three days.
But it's very powerful speaking.
And you see group hypnosis, you see people starting to cry and emotions and fight and debate, screaming,
yelling.
It's an extraordinarily intense experience.
And you can see a real master at speaking because you don't get to be a leader of one of these forums
without being incredibly trained as a speaker, debater, talker, manipulator and hypnotist.
So I don't recommend to anyone to go to LA Forum or any other cult or for that matter, religion.
It's just not my business.
It's not my thing to be recommending it to people from an intellectual, emotional or if you like,
the word spiritual perspective.
But I do think when it comes to pure presentation skills and exposing yourself to a variety of experiences,
it's a fantastic thing to do and to learn from.
Okay, so why do I tell that story?
I have to be a little bit careful because I don't want to offend people who are big fans of this particular
organization or cults or things that are like cults but don't like being called cults or for that matter,
religions.
I don't want to offend people needlessly because then that mixes up the main communication goal I have.
But I do think it's a fascinating experience and to try to expose yourself to as many different types
of experiences when it comes to presentations, the better.
It's very different than just watching it on TV or watching it on video.
Being in a room where people are crying and yelling and on the floor and very different experience.

--- TJ the Carnival Barker! ---

My very first job at the age of 16 was actually a public speaking job of sorts.
It was the late 1970s and I was working at an amusement park.
It was kind of like a Six Flags, but a little bit smaller.
And it was on the border of North and South Carolina.
My first job ever, I show up and they have me doing the guess your age and weight gain.
Someone would get up, stand on a scale, I'd have to guess their weight.
If I got within £10, they lost.
If I didn't get it that close, they won.
I had to guess their age within two years.
If I did that correctly, they didn't win anything.
If I didn't, they won.
So here's what happened, though.
Sorry if this sounds a little scammy.
I was 16 years old.
There was no incentive to be accurate because they paid $0.50 to play.
If they won, they won a prize that probably cost the amusement park $0.10.
So it didn't matter at all.
But I had to stand there with a microphone and as people were walking by.
Hello, sir.
How would you like to play Guess your Age and Weight?
Now, if someone comes up and is obviously 70 years old, I could say, Well, ma'am, I'm guessing
your age is 28.
Can you show me your ID?
They would laugh.
Show me the ID.
She's 70.
I was wrong.
Here's your prize.
Same with weight.
I didn't want to embarrass someone.
Someone's £300.
I wasn't going to say that.
But what was fun about it is talking to people.
It kind of forced me.
I was shy a little bit out of my shell because I had to project my voice into the crowd to try to bring
people in.
I don't know if I was horrible or not or it was just the management style.
I think they switched me to working in a store about three days later, but that was my first job at
16, and at some level, I'm still doing I am still speaking for a living.
So why do I tell that story?
It's just to give people a little better sense of my start.
It wasn't anything particularly glamorous and it wasn't anything brilliant that I said, but it does
show that if you speak in different ways, there are ways of making money, getting paid for it.
Sometimes it's not that important what you're saying.
As long as you engage people at some level, entertaining them a little, getting them involved in something,
it really is that simple.

--- The Show Must Go On ---

The show must go on.
That's something I stress to all of my clients when they come to me for public speaking presentation
skills training.
Way back in 2003, I was conducting a daylong workshop in my training studio in midtown Manhattan.
It was a group of energy executives in from another state, and I was telling them what I'm telling
you now, look, you've got to have the show go on no matter what.
What I mean by that is if you're giving a PowerPoint presentation and all of a sudden the bulb burns
out, the computer fails, something locks up, or even if the power goes out, you still have to deliver
your presentation.
You have to speak to people.
You have to present your ideas.
If it's 4:00 in the afternoon and all of a sudden the power goes out and everyone has to catch a plane
at 5:00, they'll be leaving the conference and you'll never see them again.
You don't want to have to say, Well, I guess I can't say anything.
But no, you want to present your ideas the best you can.
So that's what I told them At 9:00 am in the morning, we do a practice session, get everyone on camera.
They practice their PowerPoint presentations at ten, 11, 12.
We do this again and again and again.
Now we're ready for the final PowerPoint presentation of the day.
All of a sudden, it's about 4:00.
The power goes out.
Now it's August 13th, 2003.
The power goes out for 24 hours in Manhattan.
Now, we didn't know that yet, but at this point, 4:00, the power goes out, the lights go out.
This is a TV studio training facility.
There are no windows, so it is pitch black.
I kind of feel around.
I find a flashlight, I turn the flashlight on and I help people up out of their chairs safely.
We go to the refrigerator, get a few drinks, get out of the office.
Fortunately, we're only on the second floor, so we kind of feel our way down the steps out onto the
street.
There's still plenty of sunlight.
We all walk half a block to Bryant Park in midtown Manhattan.
It's a beautiful, sunny day.
We find six chairs.
We form a little circle.
And guess what?
We did sit around and just talk about, oh, New York City.
What shows to go to tonight, what restaurants to go to?
No.
Each person stood up and gave his or her final PowerPoint presentation of the day.
Now, there was nothing projected up on a screen.
There were no images.
But because they'd practiced all day, they were able to just stand up and present their ideas and still
make their ideas come alive, still make their ideas understandable and memorable.
That's what you've got to do every time.
Now, I hope the power never goes out for you, especially for 24 hours.
But if it does, I want you to be prepared.
Because if you do speak under adverse situations like that, your audience is even more likely to remember
it.
They're more likely to be impressed.
So don't blow the opportunity.
Remember, any time you're giving a PowerPoint presentation, you're never prepared for that PowerPoint
unless you're ready to give it without the PowerPoint.
Okay, so why do I give that story?
I do want to stress to people that every opportunity they have to present may be the only time to speak
in front of that audience.
Don't blow it just because technically isn't something right, just right.
A bulb burns out, computers go on the Fritz, someone can be clumsy, knock something over, break
it, or the power can go out for the whole city and it's beyond your control.
You still have the ability to speak unless someone knocks you out.
I hope that doesn't happen or chandelier falls on your head.
You can still speak without electricity.
Without power, but without computers.
So make the most of it.
That's the point of that story.
And it does really drive home the message.
You're not prepared unless you're prepared to do it without the slides.
Too many people have that as their notes.
I am a big fan of notes, as you know, but the notes don't require electricity.
You can have those in your pocket or right next to you at any time.

--- Learn Storytelling and Presentation Skills from Your Role Models ---

In this section, I focus on great communicators, great public speakers, people who've demonstrated
excellent presentation skills and are known in many cases throughout the world.
Just as great writers are constantly reading.
Other great writers and great musicians are constantly listening to their favorite bands and other great
musicians.
I believe people who want to be great when it comes to their presentation skills and their public speaking
skills are constantly looking at other people they deem to be great speakers, not necessarily to copy
from them, but to learn from them, to get inspiration, to look at new techniques that are working
and to figure out how can you not steal from them but blend in certain things they're doing with what
you're doing.
So in this section, I'm going to look at 50 or so prominent speakers, well known people who who are
known as great communicators, great public speakers.
Now, a caveat.
This is not meant to be a definitive list of the best speakers in the world.
You're going to see some deficiencies here.
Most of you watching this don't live in the United States right now.
And I want to apologize in advance.
This list is based primarily on my own experiences.
I am a white, straight male who grew up in the United States.
That does have a way of biasing me.
So I apologize in advance.
This list is not as inclusive worldwide as it could be or should be, but all I can do is give you my
expertise based on my own experiences, having studied speakers for decades.
And I want to give you my sense of what I think works.
I'm picking people who I don't necessarily agree with politically.
I'm going to pick people all across the spectrum.
I'm picking people who aren't necessarily good people.
In fact, one person on this list is on most people's list as the worst human being in the history of
the planet.
I'm analyzing just his public speaking skills and trying to derive lessons from what these people did
well so that we can learn from them and possibly use not all, but some of those techniques.
So you're going to see in this list it's going to be biased.
A lot of Americans disproportionately, a lot of disproportionately white people and a lot of males
disproportionately.
So I apologize in advance, but I don't know how else I can do this.
Short of spending another five years researching every single speaker and having it translated.
So we do the best with what we can.
I do think this is the most inclusive analysis of great speakers you're going to find in any course
on this platform or anyplace else.
So here's what I want you to do.
I'm going to try to be as brief as possible at the beginning of each lecture telling you what I find
significant about this speaker things they do well, but that anyone can do well.
And then below in the resources you're going to see a URL.
Typically this will be to YouTube, but it could be to other places too.
I want you to watch the video or at least a couple of minutes of each speaker.
Then what I'd like you to do is reflect upon it, then go to the Q&amp;A section of this course and type
in what you liked about each speaker, but also what you didn't like.
I could pick some people and you think, Wow, I hate that person.
That person rubs me the wrong way.
I would never want to listen.
That's okay.
It's really good to figure out what you like and you don't like about speakers, but it is good to get
a real range.
Listen to people you don't agree with politically.
Listen to people, watch people you don't agree with theologically.
Listen to people talking about subjects, whether it's cooking or fishing that you don't care about.
You can still learn from their abilities to communicate effectively.
So let's hop right in in the next lecture.

--- Oprah Winfrey ---

Oprah Winfrey is undoubtedly one of the best presenters, public speakers, communicators in the entire
world and has been for decades.
She got her own nationally syndicated talk show in the mid 1980s and has been a huge, huge force in
the United States, the Western world, the English speaking world ever since.
And her philanthropy has had a huge impact, Africa and other places.
Take a look at the clip below, and I think you can get a sense of why she's so popular, why she connects
every time she speaks.
She's communicating not just with the intellect, but with her heart, with emotions.
There's an emotional connection.
There's a tremendous amount of empathy that comes out on any subject she talks about in this particular
speech, you can see her thanking people in a highly specific way.
She's conversational.
She knows how to start slow build to some drama, have an emotional high point in a presentation.
Now, it frankly doesn't matter if she's giving a speech, an acceptance speech, interviewing someone
or being interviewed.
She's always Oprah.
And by that I mean she comes across as genuine, as empathetic.
She shares.
She's not afraid to talk about some of the worst things that have happened in her life.
And she's she's come from nothing and had extreme poverty.
Other extreme, horrific situations happen in her childhood.
She's overcome all of that.
And that's one reason why so many people relate to her, whether she's talking about problems with relationships,
family, wait.
She comes across as extraordinarily genuine, compassionate and empathetic.
When you do that, when you're presenting, you're way, way ahead of the crowd.
So take a look.
Post your comments.

--- William F. Buckley ---

William F Buckley, Jr.
Was an American political commentator, very active on TV, public forums, speaking everywhere, author,
pundit, columnist from the 1950s when he was in his 20s until just a few years ago when he passed away.
He had a tremendous impact on the political culture and the culture of letters in America.
He had a very distinctive speaking style.
Look at the clip below.
One of the things you may notice is he would jot his tongue out while speaking.
Now, I don't recommend that he did a number of things that simply don't work most of the time.
For most people, he could not resist using really, really big, long words.
He liked to show off his vocabulary.
Most people who do that come across as ridiculous.
For him, it kind of worked.
He was this almost caricature of the elite intellectual looking down on the masses, and he had this
accent from a summer he spent in Europe.
And so he didn't have the standard American accent.
It was a very patrician accent.
But when he spoke, he came across with humor, with wit, with insight.
And unlike a lot of political debate, especially in America today, you get the sense when he was interviewing
people, he actually listened to what they said.
He actually responded to their arguments.
And even though I wasn't in exact alignment with all of his policies, he's someone who really drew
me in to the whole culture of political debate.
I started watching him in the mid 1970s on his program called Firing Line, so he's no longer with us,
but he does leave a legacy.
Look below and see what you think of him.

--- Amy Cuddy ---

Amy Cuddy is the most successful female speaker in the history of the Ted Conferences.
She's the second most popular speaker of all time.
She's had tens and tens of millions of people watch her speech.
It's linked below.
I want you to look at it, analyze it Now.
This intrigues me at many, many levels.
I have some mixed feelings here, and I hope I don't offend any of you needlessly.
I do think she is a great speaker.
So when I look at her style, her packaging, how she crafts her speech, how she delivers her speech,
I think it's excellent.
I think it's sort of a textbook example of what to do.
Where I'm torn is I listen to her message and I think it's the worst possible message.
Her message basically boils down to you want to be confident before giving a speech or presentation,
a job interview stand like Wonder Woman, and you'll be filled with confidence.
And this stance will make your posture full and you'll just be full of confidence and you'll be great.
Now, it turns out that the research allegedly supporting this cannot be duplicated, and the research
has been called into question, and most people consider it debunked.
The far bigger issue I have with this is I think it's irrelevant.
Just feeling confident.
I can feel confident, but if I'm giving you an incredibly boring presentation, it doesn't matter.
If I feel confident.
So I kind of feel like she's one of these diet gurus, analogous to a diet guru who says, you know,
eat M&amp;Ms twice a day and you'll lose a lot of weight.
Well, if you only eat two M&amp;Ms a day and you eat nothing else, yeah, you'll lose weight, but no
one can do that.
And it's not really going to solve your long term health problems.
It's kind of a waste of time.
It's diverting people from what really needs to be done.
If you're really overweight, you need to eat healthier food, fewer calories and exercise more.
If you're giving a really boring speech, just feeling confident isn't going to help you.
The solution is give an interesting speech.
In fact, if you want a role model, I would suggest no better role model than Amy Cuddy.
If you actually look at how she constructs her speech, it's textbook perfect.
She she focuses on just a couple of ideas.
She does a great job of weaving in a personal narrative.
She tells a story in such a compelling way.
She talks about being in a car crash and being in a coma, losing IQ points, having to fight back her
own fears, insecurities.
It's it's an emotional ride you feel for her.
She comes across as just an extremely likable person, a nice person, someone you'd want to have at
a dinner party with your family.
But guess what?
That's pretty much what every public speaking book says on Amazon.
And there's 20,000 of them and they all tell you, focus on fewer ideas, use personal examples, tell
stories, bring in emotion, connect with the audience.
She moves around some, she smiles.
She does all the things, frankly, that I recommend to all of my clients and that you're hearing throughout
this entire course.
So I think she's a great role model in that regard.
Where I am lost, though, and feel bad is it's just yet another gimmick.
It's telling people kind of what they want to hear.
It's like, here's a ThighMaster machine.
Don't worry about exercising a lot or doing any strenuous exercise or changing your diet just by this
infomercial gadget and put your legs together or something.
And that's going to make you thin and beautiful.
It's yet another gimmick.
So this one hits me kind of hard because I constantly see people on the Internet and elsewhere saying,
Well, if you just visualize people in their underwear, you'll be fine.
If you tap on your face enough, you'll get over fear of public speaking.
Or if you take a beta blocker or you get hypnotized all these gimmicks.
If you use Prezi and use animation, your speech will be fine.
Well, no, no, no.
If you want to give a great presentation, you need to do the hard work of coming up with interesting
ideas.
Which cutie did coming up with a compelling story for each idea?
Which cutie did?
Practicing your speech?
Many times, preferably dozens of times or hundreds of times.
Or even thousands of times, as I suspect Cutie did practice on video.
Keep doing it until you love your speech.
Then and only then are you ready to give it, and then you'll be filled with confidence.
The problem, of course, if you do a Ted Talk and you say that you'll get about three viewers because
it's not sexy, it's not some quick gimmick fix.
It's not something that helps you avoid doing the hard work of what's actually necessary.
None the less, I do recommend you watch the video.
If you agree with me, you can leave comments in the Q&amp;A section.
If you disagree with me and you think I'm being mean or harsh, you can leave comments in the Q and
A section.

--- Martha Stewart ---

Martha Stewart is a true force of nature in the world of publishing, media, entertainment and lifestyle.
That's sort of this new genre she created.
Now, a lot of people say Martha Stewart, not what I think of as a compelling, captivating speaker.
She's not giving rousing keynotes motivational speeches that often, but she has had a tremendous career
on TV now, on Internet video, every kind of network, every kind of channel, her own shows, broadcast
syndication, cable TV, public TV, you name it.
She's been there.
She is a producer.
So part of what I find inspiring about her is it doesn't matter.
She's already rich.
A couple of decades ago, she became a billionaire, at least for a while when her company went public
during the Internet craze.
She still went to work every day.
And after that, she went to prison for some legal problems.
A lot of people would have just retreated into private life after that in seclusion.
She was right back out there.
She is someone known for a tremendous, tremendous work ethic.
Now, she's not known for being the best boss to have.
But when it comes to someone who is just always out there, always speaking, she does it.
Now, interesting thing about Martha Stewart.
She has as enemies come up.
It's not that she's perfectly fluent, but she does come across in a consistent way in her own style.
Her image is that of the wildly successful, rich, beautiful Connecticut woman who has it all with
a glamorous friends, the glorious horse farms.
Everything is beautiful.
And it's this beautiful world where there's beautiful dinner parties and weekends in the country.
And she just exudes this whole aspirational lifestyle every time you see her.
And it's not because of a fancy vocabulary or anything else, but in part it is her look, no matter
how old she is, when she was really young, she was a fashion model in Manhattan and on the cover of
magazines.
Now she's nearly 80, but she still has a consistent look that is aspirational to many people.
She comes across as calm, sophisticated, yet isn't afraid to get her hands dirty and really roll up
her sleeves and tell you exactly how to fix this fence or exactly how to revarnish this door.
That's what makes her a compelling speaker.
That and just the pure prodigious output.
She keeps going and going and going and she's always looking for new people to partner with.
And recent years, she's partnered with Snoop Dogg for various TV shows.
She is fearless.
Take a look at the video, see what you like and what you don't like.

--- Bill Clinton ---

Of public speakers who've been on the international stage, well known in the English speaking world
and around the world, and of speakers who've been around for several decades.
I have to put Bill Clinton at the very top of the list when it comes to pure public speaking skill.
Even his political enemies, people who don't share his view on politics or policy, would concede he
is a world class public speaker.
With Clinton, I could have picked almost any speaker and I say almost.
I'll talk about his one biggest blunder, almost any speech he's given in the last 30 years.
And we could point to a near virtuoso performance.
He really connects with people.
He is the master of eye contact.
If you heard me talk about in other sections of this course, he's always exuding an empathy.
He has a masterful use of his voice.
He might occasionally speak a little bit louder, but then he'll instantly soften it and contrast it
with a whisper.
He has great facial expressions movement.
The only thing I would fault him on is at some point some consultant somewhere told him it's bad to
point and he does this awkward thing with his thumb, which I've never seen anyone in real life having
a conversation do.
That's the one area where I would tell him, Don't do that.
That looks phony and contrived, but everything else, he just comes across as incredibly natural,
relaxed, likable, and he truly gives you the sense that he is here in the moment, just sharing with
you.
Now, I've seen him many times in person going back to the 1980s at political conventions, basically
always the same.
He's pretty much always the best speaker anyone has seen that day, that weekend, that week, that
month or ever.
Now, he does have some skills that most people don't have.
He has a near-photographic memory famously during a joint session of Congress that he was speaking too
early in his term.
He didn't have his speech loaded in the teleprompter properly.
It was the previous year's speech.
So he spoke for the first 10 or 15 minutes just for memory.
No one had any idea.
Now, most people can't do that.
And you don't need to have a photographic memory to be a great speaker.
I do think you can learn from him by showing and looking at how he demonstrates pausing animation using
simple words.
Now, this is a again, you may hate Bill Clinton for a variety of reasons.
He is very, very intellectual.
You talk to any public policy professor who has met Clinton, they'll tell you he knows more about the
subject than they do, has an expansive vocabulary.
But when you listen to him speak, he is the simplest words, possible small words.
And yet nobody thinks he's stupid.
He's able to clarify things.
He's able to put a spotlight on issues.
He's able to make the case for whether it's his own campaign, other politicians, other campaigns in
a way that other speakers, other politicians simply cannot do.
So regardless of your politics, you might even care about politics.
You certainly cannot harm yourself by studying carefully in great detail how Bill Clinton speaks.
I do put him way above John F Kennedy as a speaker or Roosevelt or others, because I think he's so
much more natural, more conversational and an ability, his ability to be in the moment when he speaks
where you feel like, wow, he's just talking to me, even though you're in a room with 50,000 other
people, it still comes across as genuine, interesting, memorable.
Take a look.
Post your comments on what you like and don't like, but please don't turn this into a forum about your
politics.
If you didn't like something about his policies or personal, this isn't the place for it.
Okay?

--- Tony Blair ---

Former British Prime Minister Tony Blair is a master at public speaking.
This guy could read the phone book for five hours.
I would want to listen to him more.
Now, part of it is as Americans, we have sort of a bias.
There's all sorts of biases in the world.
Fair, unfair, negative, positive.
We Americans have a bias in favor of certain types of British accents.
To our ear, it just sounds so incredibly educated, refined and sophisticated.
And Tony Blair has one of those accents.
But when you see him in the House of Commons, a press conference, a set formal speech, you can tell
he has put time into this.
He's thought about it.
He's prepared.
He has rehearsed.
He's looking up at people most of the time.
He's not just reading and going through the motions.
He's connecting an emotional level as well as an intellectual level.
So I urge you, take a look and forgive me, those of you in the United Kingdom and some of you in Europe,
the politics have changed to make him not as popular as he used to be.
We're not here in this course to talk about whether someone was a great political leader or bad or anything.
We're just analyzing their presentation skills and public speaking skills.
And I think any fair minded observer would say that Tony Blair is one of the greatest speakers in the
English language of the last 50 years.
Take a look.
Post your comments.

--- Bill O'Reilly ---

Bill O'Reilly was the top rated talk show host for all of cable news in the United States and seen throughout
the world for an incredibly long time, like more than 15 years.
That's an incredible accomplishment to be number one in prime time.
You don't do that by luck or just being on the right network.
He was able to do this in part because I believe he communicated so clearly.
He knew his audience.
He knew their beliefs.
He shared with them his view of the world distilled in such a way as it resonated with them.
And he brought to it a certain level of intellectual discipline.
And he didn't try to be things he was he didn't really try to be funny.
He didn't really try to be extra empathetic.
He didn't try to be warm and cuddly.
He had his own style.
It was and he was for those of you not familiar with him, he was on the conservative side of the political
spectrum in the United States and was very sympathetic to conservative causes and politicians.
But he was able to explain the world, analyze the top stories of the day in a way that struck a lot
of people, even if they didn't agree with him.
As reasonable, as intelligent, as somewhat fair, logical and rational.
Now, he didn't appeal to everyone.
And the people on the other side of the political spectrum did not particularly like him.
But he was there day in, day out, communicating.
And he wrote his own commentaries every night.
He dictated them and wrote them out himself.
So these were his own words, great communicators.
Now, if you're president of a country, yes, you're going to have speechwriters, but the greatest
communicators I find do spend a lot of time creating their own words.
It's certain parts of their career.
We'll talk about Ronald Reagan as well.
Ronald Reagan obviously had speechwriters, but for many, many, many years.
He wrote all of his daily commentaries for his radio, commentaries by hand himself.
Great communicators.
Think about their words.
They think about what they want to say.
And they communicate a lot.
And someone like Bill O'Reilly, who was on the air every single night for more than 20 years and he
still somewhere in the Internet, doing political commentary as well.
But when you are forced to think about what you want to say every day and write it out, that creates
a discipline and it builds your strength as a communicator.
By the way, for many years, he also did a daily three hour talk radio show, which is another type
of presenting, another type of communication skill and that wasn't nearly as successful.
Television was his medium.
The opening Talking Points memo could be three minutes long, could be ten minutes long.
That was how he initially grabbed his audience.
So take a look below one of his commentaries and you could see there's nothing that exciting about it.
There's no tremendous pizzazz or flourish, but there is a clear cut perspective, clear cut emotion
and a consistency to it.
And that's why he was and still is a successful communicator.

--- Dick Clark ---

Dick Clark was an American TV producer and host.
Now, it may seem funny to some of you, even those of you who remember Dick Clark, to have him on
this list of great communicators, great speakers, someone with great presentation skills.
But bear with me.
He had a career where he was on TV for nearly 60 years.
American Bandstand, New Year's Eve celebrations, all sorts of other specials.
And here's the thing.
You probably don't remember anything that he said.
So why am I including him on this list?
It's because Dick Clark was great at what he did.
He put a spotlight on other people, other musicians, other performers, other entertainers.
Now, I'm sure he had an ego, but when he was on camera speaking, communicating to millions of people,
he didn't try to steal the spotlight for himself.
He didn't try to hog it.
He didn't try to say me, me, me, me, me.
He wasn't known as someone who had any singing talent, comedy, talent, acting talent.
He was really good at just being a present.
Now he's a great businessperson and producer as well, but he was good at presenting the basic facts
what the next act is, what the next song is.
Biographical Information.
There is a role for that.
Many of you may be in a situation where you have to be a facilitator, introduce other people in your
company, your industry at events.
Dick Clark could be a great role model for you.
So take a look at the clip below and you can see he's understated.
He's not showy, he's not overly dramatic, emotional.
It's not about me, me, me.
He puts the spotlight on other people, other trainers, other entertainers, other talents.
That's what made him a great presenter.
Take a look.

--- Winston Churchill ---

You didn't think I could put together a list like this without.
Including Winston Churchill, did you?
Churchill is the most famous prime minister of Great Britain of all time.
He is certainly known throughout the world as a great speaker, a great communicator.
Why is this now?
There have been numerous movies about him, a gazillion books.
There's a lot to really study here if you're fascinated by Churchill.
But I want to cover what I think are the most important things for the average person to relate to.
One thing I hear from clients all over the world when I come to train them, for example, to be on
TV the first time or to give a major speech, a lot of times people are filled with insecurities of,
Oh, I'm not good looking enough, or I'm a behind the scenes person or I'm too short or not thin enough
or all these issues.
That's why I like to have people look at Winston Churchill.
Here's a guy who is short, bald, portly, has a lisp, has an actual speech impediment and stutters.
And by the standards of his time, did not have a very prestigious college education.
And yet look at what he did.
He went on to become the most famous speaker of Great Britain.
Depending on your list, 1 or 2 best speakers of the 20th century.
And he did it even though he had some deficiencies.
So watch the video now when you see him.
Quite often you're so overwhelmed by this great mystique of the great Winston Churchill.
Sometimes it's easy to miss the flaws.
But listen, you can, in fact, hear a lisp, a speech impediment.
It's not just an accent.
You can hear actual stammering and yet it didn't matter.
His passion came through.
Winston Churchill was someone who had a real love of words, a love of language.
He would write rewrite speeches.
He famously said it would take him two weeks to come up with a quick, impromptu speech at a dinner
party.
He's someone who really put a lot of time, energy and effort into every aspect of it.
Even when he read his speech, he still gave great eye contact to his audience.
Great passion.
Hand motions, energy force.
And he was very theatrical during the war.
He famously would finish his speech and then instantly dash out of the room as if he were off to solve
another great world problem.
And he may have been in a hurry, but sometimes it just added to the overall mystique.
He was a big believer in props.
He had big, thick horn rimmed glasses that he would take off and play with.
He liked the pinstripe suit.
Sometimes he would have a watch.
A pocket watch.
Very decorative.
He he really did put a lot of time into every aspect of his image, how he looked, how he sounded,
exactly what words he wanted to use.
And he was not afraid to be powerful, to attack, to be extremely vivid compared to so many people
in politics who want to be bland and diffuse.
So watch this video that I've linked to below.
Watch others.
Check out some movies about Winston Churchill, too.
He really is a fabulous communicator and a tremendous presenter.

--- Steve Harvey ---

Steve Harvey is an American comedian and actor, and he is omnipresent.
It seems as though there are days when it doesn't matter what channel you flip on.
There he is on a show and it's a completely different show.
He hosts numerous TV shows.
He writes New York Times best sellers.
He is just and his radio shows mean the guy doesn't seem to sleep now.
He is a professional comedian.
So he is able to inject humor in what he does.
But part of what he does well as a presenter is he just exudes the sense he's happy to be there.
Part of it is a smile.
Part of it is his tone of voice.
This is something great communicators have in common.
They don't go into any presentation with the idea of, okay, let's get it over with.
I'm here to dump the facts or I'm here to do a job.
No, they exude the sense of, Wow, it's great to be here today to share with you these ideas or these
topics or these subjects we're dealing with.
And that's what Steve Harvey does.
So I want you to watch below and you can see him stand up comedy hosting shows, Family Feud, you name
it.
All of these shows are a little bit different, but how he speaks is typically the same.
He's relaxed, he's conversational, he's loose, he's friendly.
He doesn't seem stuck up.
He doesn't seem pretentious in any way.
That's what makes him a great presenter.
And it's also making him really in demand because it seems as though TV producers, at least in America,
can't even think of anyone else to host shows these days other than Steve Harvey.
Take a look.
See what you like, Comment it, comment on it in the discussion group.

--- Ronald Reagan ---

Ronald Reagan, the great communicator.
He was called that by friend and foe alike because Ronald Reagan was in fact really good at communicating.
He was the master at the set speech.
He also did well in debates, and he was just fantastic at taking ideas, expressing them in a way where
you knew he believed it intellectually.
Here were the facts.
But here's how he felt about it as well.
What's less known about Reagan was his work ethic towards major presentations.
People just assumed, Oh, well, of course he's a good speaker.
He was an actor.
He's a natural at it.
No, when Ronald Reagan had to give a really important speech like a State of the Union address, he
had a tremendous discipline.
First of all, he would meet with his staff members, his speechwriters for months, going through ideas
for the speech.
He would then come up with ideas, look at drafts, give notes, give feedback.
He then would force them to finish the speech one week before it was due.
This way he's not doing last minute edits five minutes before the speech is given.
It gave him time to read it out loud every night for hours for a week before the State of the Union
address.
Not to memorize it, just to get more familiar with the words, to build a bond with the words, to
build a relationship with the words, to get really comfortable with the whole speech.
But even that wasn't enough.
He would then spend an entire day doing videotaped rehearsal with the speech so that when he was reading
the words off the teleprompter, it didn't seem like he was reading words off the teleprompter.
It felt like he was just speaking to you from the heart.
Now, Ronald Reagan obviously knew about stagecraft since he was an actor.
He gave tremendous importance to every aspect of how things looked.
For example, you would never see Ronald Reagan walking up to a lectern holding his speech the way you
would see George Bush or others.
He wanted to create the illusion of just talking to people.
So what he did is he had his notes mostly on note cards three by five, four by six note cards.
He would have them in his left suit pocket.
So when he walked up on stage and got behind a lectern, he could walk with his hands free.
He could get up there, wave with with one hand, pull the notes out without anyone seeing it, put
it on the lectern, then wave with the other hand and that his notes are in front of him.
Nobody ever saw him touch his notes.
He was then careful to start off by looking at people, then dipping down to look at his notes.
He is one of the few politicians who was actually good at reading from notes and delivering a speech.
Most people can't do that masterful, masterful communicator for big speeches.
He did practice a lot, but he was also good on the fly.
If there was an emergency like the Challenger shuttle exploding and he had to address the nation, he
could do it really well quickly then, too.
But he's someone who didn't take it for granted when he knew it was a big speech.
He knew he had time.
He would work on it, craft it.
Now, as president, he obviously had speechwriters, but Reagan was a good writer himself before he
became president.
He did daily five minute political commentaries on radio, sometimes television.
He wrote them out by hand himself, and he spoke constantly.
Reagan also knew that when you speak, it's not about what's interesting to you.
It's about what's interesting to the audience.
So he gave virtually the same speech from 1964 to 1980 when he first ran for president, when he first
burst on the national scene at the 64 Republican political convention, nominating Goldwater to his
own nomination for president in 1980, He spoke all over the country, repeatedly, hitting the same
conservative political themes.
He did it again and again and again.
He got better at it and better at it and better at it.
And even though he'd been in the communication business for decades, being behind a camera, being
a sports announcer, speaking in front of a live audience is different.
It's a different type of presentation.
And he was a real student of that, and he learned how to get better and better and better.
Go ahead.
Take a look at this clip and figure out for yourself.
What do you like about what he did?
What do you not like?
I'm hoping you'll notice things like the way he uses his.
Voice.
Now, while Reagan admired John F Kennedy, who was basically his same age and other earlier orators,
he realized that in the modern TV era, you can't yell.
It's too hot for the medium, so you'll never see Reagan yell during his speech.
He might boost the volume a little and then even whisper.
He really uses his voice well for the modern medium of TV.
Check it out.

--- Robin Williams ---

Comedian Robin Williams was a mainstay on American television sitcoms, talk shows, the stand up world
from the 1970s until his death in 2014.
Many people, including myself, marveled at his ability to just seemingly be so spontaneous on a talk
show, whether it's The Tonight Show or anything else, go into so many different voices, riffs, different
directions, zigging and zagging and make it all seem like it just happened to him.
Well, here's the thing.
None of that was spontaneous.
It was all rehearsed in front of live audiences, quite often small comedy clubs for weeks at a time
in order to seem spontaneous.
It might be the product of hours and hours and hours of work over weeks.
I'm a little reluctant to use famous comedians sometimes as public speaking experts because it is so
much more work to be a great comedian than it is, in my view, to be simply a great presenter, communicator,
public speaker.
But it's still interesting and fun to watch the Masters to see how they're able to get laughs from audience,
how they're able to create change with their voice, their body, their face, their eyes, their height.
Everything about them is changing when they're communicating.
That's why I'd urge you look at the clip.
I'm not expecting you to be as funny as Robin Williams or any professional comedian when you're giving
your next PowerPoint presentation.
But I do want you to look at and study the sheer amount of variation in speed, tone, volume, body
position, hand motion, face motion.
Take a look and comment in the Q&amp;A section.

--- Rush Limbaugh ---

Rush Limbaugh is the most successful talk radio show host in the United States, perhaps ever, certainly
of the last 30 years.
He's been on the air every day for three hours coast to coast and heard around the world, too, in
some places, three hours a day.
Now, he doesn't have guests, folks, anyone who thinks it's easy to talk for three hours a day, essentially
to yourself.
Has never hosted a three hour talk radio show.
I know I've hosted three hour talk shows before.
It's hard to do.
You can run out of things to say.
You certainly can start to bore yourself.
Now.
He is a controversial figure for a number of political comment.
We're not here to talk about the politics.
In fact, I would urge you, if you don't like Rush Limbaugh's politics, watch the clip below.
Try to look at it with a fresh set of eyes, because I do believe he is one of the most masterful communicators
of the last half century, certainly within the United States.
He's able to keep an audience, whether it's still 20 million, 15 million, it's still huge.
The audience he has and his ability to really convey ideas about politics in the world to people who
share similar values.
I'll never forget the first time I heard Rush Limbaugh.
I was hosting a daily political talk show in a small town in Florida, in Tallahassee, w a L radio,
and my producer came up to me and said, Hey, you got to see this.
And he pushed in a VHS tape into a VCR.
I thought it was going to be something inappropriate for the workplace.
It wasn't.
It was a video of Rush Limbaugh giving a speech.
Back then.
He had his so called Rush to Excellence tour.
This would have been 1989.
The year before is when Rush Limbaugh started his.
National talk radio show in 1988.
So as of this recording day, he's been on for 30 years now.
What Rush does so well and what he really used to do very well in the first five years or so of his
talk show was he had a lot of creativity in the way he looked at old issues through a new light.
He also used a lot more humor, audio clips, music clips, sound effects, and there was a tremendous
amount of creativity.
I don't think he's as creative as he used to be, but in his prime he was masterful.
At the particular medium of radio, was not as successful on television.
He doesn't really get out and do that much public speaking anymore, but he is still speaking to millions
of people every single day and has tremendous influence on on politics campaigns here in the United
States.
You may have someone like this in your country as well.
Even if you don't like them, listen to them.
You can learn from them.
So watch the clip below and see if you can figure out what he's doing.
Why has he been able to reach 20 million people every day for 30 years And most people can't even get
family members at the dinner table to listen to them, even though the opinions might be the same.
Take a look, analyze it, figure out what's working and what's not working.
I can tell you one of the things you'll notice is it's not all scripted out and written out.
He's thinking there are stops and starts, There's sputtering.
You hear the rattling of the of the paper, of notes of stories he's looking at.
So it really works for this medium of radio, which is different than television.
It's different than a scripted show.
It's different than stand up comedy.
It's its own thing.
And he is the master of it.

--- Ellen DeGeneres ---

Ellen DeGeneres is one of the most widely successful TV talk show host ever, certainly in the last
decade.
Her show is wildly popular here in the United States.
What is her appeal as a communicator?
A part of it, as you can see in the clip below, she just comes across as genuine.
As likable.
As friendly.
She is a professional comedian.
That's her back.
Her background.
So humor is infused with everything she does, but she comes across in a way where you just feel like
she doesn't have a hateful bone in her body.
She comes across as a nice person, likable, friendly.
She's not always trying to get the last word in.
She really listens to her guests.
She shows sympathy and she just comes across as normal and average.
She's not better looking than the average person.
She's not a better dancer than the average person.
Even though she comes in dancing on her show, she just comes across as someone completely comfortable
in her own skin.
Now, part of what makes her successful is she's just out there.
She's been in this business for numerous decades.
She's had ups, she's had downs, but she kind of looks the same.
She kind of sounds the same.
The public has changed.
There was a time she came out as gay, lost her prime time sitcom, and sort of had to go into hiding
for a while.
It was very unpopular for a while, did other projects, then got her daily TV talk show, and it's
been phenomenally successful.
It's hard for most people to even remember 20 years ago when it was considered kind of a big deal that
she was gay and oh, isn't that bad.
A lot of people thought those days are long gone.
One of the things that I do think is great as a role model for any type of presenter, any speaker is
the discipline comedians have.
Because really good comedians, we're used to performing stand up in dingy little clubs, night clubs,
comedy clubs all over the country, sometimes two, three, four, sometimes five sets a night.
Comedians in New York City, when they're first starting, often bounce around from one comedy club
to another.
They might be in six comedy clubs in one night.
Even if you're not the world's greatest comic, it's virtually impossible not to learn things about
public speaking, about presenting, about reading an audience, about timing.
When you are in front of so many audiences live, hearing people getting feedback, figuring out what
works, what doesn't work.
So I think that was fantastic grounding for Ellen DeGeneres.
And it's one reason why you see so many former stand up comedians hosting shows they simply have more
experience under their belt for reacting to people in live situations.
So I know this is supposed to be about Ellen DeGeneres, but if you ever get an opportunity to take
a live stand up comedy class or perform open mind, do it even if you're awful.
And I've done it before and I was awful.
But even if you do it and you're awful, you'll still learn a lot.
You'll learn about how to be a better communicator and a better presenter.
Watch the clip of Ellen and then write in the discussion section, the Q&amp;A section of this course.
What you like, what you don't like.

--- Jesse Jackson ---

Jesse Jackson in his prime was one of the most powerful public speakers I've ever seen.
He is a well known American civil rights activist, ran for president in 1984 and 88 and gave some of
the most rousing speeches at political conventions ever seen.
What Jesse Jackson did so well is speak with tremendous passion.
And he would even rhyme.
He would say things like, put hope in your brains, not dope in your veins.
And you just couldn't help but laugh, smile.
But it was memorable.
It made the point, this is someone who was a master at presenting his ideas to the news media, getting
tremendous attention.
He is still alive as of this posting, as of this creation in 2018.
For this course.
He's not as active as he once was.
That's why I'm using was instead of is.
I urge you to take a look at the speech below that I have selected for you.
And I think what you're going to find is someone who just has tremendous passion.
There's energy, the feeling that comes out.
Here's the thing about Jesse Jackson.
He certainly wasn't born a natural speaker.
He was born in poverty and he had a severe stuttering problem, but he overcame that.
So ask yourself, do you have any problems like severe stuttering, severe poverty that you're dealing
with?
If so, you're in good company.
If not, what do you have to complain about?
Because Jesse Jackson has spoken to millions and millions throughout his country and all over the globe
as well, and had a huge impact on political debates and in the civil rights movement.
So take a look below.
He certainly is a character who has some controversy as almost all the political speakers on referencing
in this course have controversy.
They're not all universally beloved.
But listen to him.
Whether you agree or disagree with his politics or policies, there is almost a music to his voice and
a rhythm that is quite captivating.
Take a look comment in the Q&amp;A section.

--- Joan Rivers ---

Comedian Joan Rivers had a career that spanned 50 years until she passed away in 2014, and she was
wildly successful.
But I do think there are things she did that anyone can try to do as well, something she did well,
whether she was a guest on a talk show, whether she was doing standup comedy, whether she was hosting
shows, she was never afraid to make fun of herself.
Now, I'm not suggesting you have to talk about your ugly you or your plastic surgery, but she always
did that.
I'm not saying she was ugly, but she always talked about how ugly she was and how many plastic surgeries
she had.
So she didn't come across as arrogant.
It made her more likable to people.
The other thing that she did so well is she was utterly fearless.
She would say anything.
She didn't care how offensive it was.
You got the sense she was telling you what she really thought.
And I'm not suggesting you rip apart your boss or say how the founder of your company is ugly or stupid.
But if you can build a reputation for yourself as someone who really does say the honest truth, even
if it occasionally can offend certain interests, that's going to help you as a presenter.
If you can occasionally make fun of yourself or act like you don't think you're perfect, that will
make you even more likable as a as a communicator now.
Joan Rivers had a tremendous work ethic.
She was always on the go.
More cable shows, more TV shows, appearances, talk radio shows.
Stand up.
I'll never forget one time I saw her in a stand up comedy club in Greenwich Village in Manhattan, and
she was already had had been over 70.
She was doing a stand up comedy show from like 7 to 830 in the evening, probably finished around nine.
She was working on new material for a Broadway show.
She had actually had her notes on the floor.
It was still funny.
As soon as it finished, she said, I've got to run.
She was dashing.
A car, was waiting for her to go to QVC so she could tape segments selling her own jewelry on QVC starting
at 2:00 in the morning.
Work, work, work, work.
She presented.
She communicated.
She was tireless, whether it was hawking her own wares, being a guest on other shows, hosting cable
shows, comedy shows, being a guest, she was everywhere.
And she just got better and better and better.
Take a look.
Write in the Q&amp;A section what you like, what you don't like.
If you don't think she's funny, that's okay.
But that's not really what you learn by watching someone like Joan Rivers speak.

--- Fidel Castro ---

Fidel Castro was certainly one of the most powerful, riveting speakers of the second half of the 20th
century.
He is really known for how long some of his speeches were.
He once gave a speech for more than seven hours.
He once spoke for 4.5 hours just at the United Nations.
Now, you have to have a tremendous, tremendous passion for public speaking, for communicating, to
speak for seven hours.
Now, I'm not suggesting to you that he should be your role model as far as now, give seven hour speeches.
That isn't going to work.
Most of the time for most people.
In fact, I would say it rarely works.
But again, we're not here to talk about politics and dictatorship and right wing and left wing and
America.
I'm not here to talk about politics.
So I don't want you to think I'm endorsing anyone here in this particular section of the course.
But Fidel Castro's speaking did serve him well.
Now, people think of him as well.
He could speak for seven hours because if you're a dictator, you can control what people do.
They don't like it or pay attention and you lock them up, but they forget.
When Castro rose to power, he didn't have the state behind him.
He didn't have great wealth behind him.
He didn't have many assets at all.
But he did have his charisma.
He did have his ability to speak to his fellow revolutionaries.
He had his ability to speak and build a following in the countryside of Cuba and to foment revolution
that takes the ultimate in presentation skills.
If you can convince people to turn against their own government, to revolt, to risk their own lives
for a cause.
You do not do that unless you are a great communicator.
So Fidel Castro.
Whatever other flaws there were and there were many, he was a fantastic, powerful communicator.
Now, you can look at parts of this clip I'm going to show you and others and see him yelling and screaming.
It almost seem like a madman.
You may think, how could anyone fall for that?
It's a different experience if you're there in a crowd watching it and you're seeing it from a distance,
even when you are watching it on video.
The passion comes through, the sense that he really, really believes this come through.
And for some people, that's infectious.
Take a look.
Leave your comments in the Q and A section.

--- Barack Obama ---

Former President Barack Obama to me is a fascinating case on the power of public speaking.
If you go back in time to 2004 and looked at Barack Obama, you would say, here's somebody with a funny
name, doesn't have any personal wealth, doesn't have family wealth, doesn't have family connections,
has lost his only bid for federal office when he ran for Congress, had been a low level legislative
position.
What does he really have going for himself?
And he went from there in one speech to being the front runner for the 2008 Democratic nomination and
became president in 2000 and elected in 2008.
I would argue, and this is not in any way to diminish other accomplishments of his, it was based entirely
on his public speaking skills, specifically his 2004 Democratic Convention keynote speech shown below.
Take a look at it.
It is a masterpiece.
Here's what people don't really know about Barack Obama.
Only a few years earlier, he was giving speeches all the time, presentations as a law professor at
the University of Chicago.
And guess what?
Students thought he was boring, ponderous, just a boring lecturer.
He learned.
He got better.
He improved.
He rehearsed that speech a great deal.
And he really got to the point where he was much more comfortable with it.
Now, when you're giving a political speech like this at a convention, you're using a teleprompter.
Most politicians are not very good at this because they're not using them that often.
So the big problem most people have with teleprompters is they freeze their head and all of a sudden
they start to speak at the same speed, the same tone, the same volume.
They don't pause, and that makes anybody look and sound boring.
Obama took the time to learn how to use a teleprompter, and he learned the basics, which is you got
to keep moving your face.
You got to keep moving your head, your hands.
You have to sometimes speak a little louder, sometimes a little softer, sometimes faster, sometimes
slower.
And occasionally you have to pause.
That is what makes someone good at reading a teleprompter.
Sounds simple when I say it that way.
So few politicians bother to learn the basics.
He did.
It served him well for that keynote speech.
It also served him well on the presidential campaign and in office and for re-election, too.
Now, I can talk a lot about Barack Obama, and I have so link further along in this course.
I have an entire hour long video analyzing all of his major early speeches in his campaign and earlier
career.
So if you're really interested, take a look at that.
But for right now, look at his 2004 speech, his keynote speech that really made a name for him and
figure out what's he doing.
Well, what is it he's doing that you could also do?
Post your comments in the Q&amp;A section.

--- Samantha Bee ---

Samantha Bee is an American comedian who first rose to fame as a correspondent for The Daily Show,
Comedy Central's Daily Show.
And in the last couple of years, she's had her own weekly show where she looks at what's going on in
the news and gives her own comedic take on that.
Plus does interviews.
I personally find her extraordinarily funny.
You may or may not find her funny.
Look at the clip below, but I think what you can take away from her is she is herself.
She's authentic.
She's not trying to be like all the other late night talk show hosts.
Now, she makes a big deal out of the fact and others do, too, that she's really the only woman who's
hosting a late night comedy show and late night news program, and that it is something that distinguisher
makes her different.
I do think there's something to that.
Her opinions, her commentary, even though she's politically not that different from some of the other
late night hosts, her perspective is different.
The style of her comedy is different, and there is an intensity.
There is a ferociousness that comes through from her, but also in a way that makes her eminently likable.
Now, full disclosure, she is a former client of mine.
I actually had the pleasure of rehearsing with her for a day she had been hired by, I think it was
a bleach company and she was going to be doing a series of satellite interviews all over the country
talking about a particular bleach and why the three second rule doesn't apply.
If something drops on your floor or your counter, you can't just pick it up and eat it anyway.
She was a delight to work with a real pro and that's why I think she is worthy of our examination here.
Again, you might not like her comedy, you might not like her politics, but look at how she's able
to just infuse her personality into all the issues of the day, but in a way that doesn't make her seem
like an egomaniac.
Take a look.
Leave comments.

--- Barbara Walters ---

TV journalist Barbara Walters is in my pantheon as one of the greatest communicators of all time.
She really knows how to present ideas effectively, and she's tremendously versatile.
She was born in the 1920s.
She's had an amazingly long, long career.
And in 2018, she's still the executive producer of The View.
She was a real groundbreaker when it comes to women in journalism.
Started off as just a fact checker, very low level positions in PR and research with major networks,
but worked her way onto the morning shows.
She then in the 1970s, became the first female anchor of a network newscast and famously made $1 million
a year, which was unprecedented at the time.
She's worked for many different networks, had so many different positions, specials, hard news,
soft news, morning news, prime time news programs.
And then it looked like her career was kind of finishing up way about 20 years ago.
She was almost 70.
She started a whole nother career when she launched a TV show called The View, where she's sitting
around having a conversation with other women.
She did that on air for the next 16 years.
Here are some of the things I want you to take away when looking at her speak.
She has a speech impediment.
It was famously mocked by other comedians on Saturday Night Live back in the 70s and early 80s, and
yet hasn't slowed her down.
She's not someone who certainly was the youngest, prettiest person in the room, not someone with the
best education credentials, not someone who spoke the clearest.
And yet she beat all those other people, men and women throughout her career.
She out hustled, she out networked, she out socialized, she outworked.
And she just never stopped.
She's always looking for more opportunities to speak.
Was always taking another show, another assignment, starting a new show, producing a new show.
And she just didn't let the fact that she didn't speak the way other people wanted her to bother her.
Now she has her detractors, and not everyone likes her style.
Doesn't let that bother her.
She keeps going and going and going.
And that, I do think, is a real lesson for people who aspire to be communicators.
You can be fired, you can have setbacks, you can be told you're too old or you're not enough this
or you're not enough that.
If you just keep looking for more and more opportunities, keep inserting yourself, Keep creating your
own vehicles for speaking.
You can have a long, long career.
Take a look below comment in the Q and A section.

--- Bill Maher ---

Bill Maher is an American comedian and political talk show host who's been active since the 1970s.
For the last quarter of a century, he's had his own nighttime show on major TV networks.
First, it was politically incorrect.
Now it is real time with Bill Maher and HBO.
He's had a tremendously long career.
It's had ups and downs, but I believe he deserves inclusion here as one of the best communicators,
because in part of how consistent he is with his beliefs, how he injects humor into everything, and
because of how fearless he is, he has a different style.
He hits his political opponents much, much more forcefully in a much more vicious way because of that.
He has a more polarized audience.
The people who hate him really, really, really hate him.
The people who love him, however, really love him.
Great communicators, I believe, are true to themselves.
True to their audience.
True to their fans.
And they don't worry about trying to be all things to all people.
One of the biggest mistakes anyone can make when they're trying to give presentations, talks, speeches
is to be defensive the whole time, to spend all their time not trying to offend anyone and trying to
appeal to everyone and they end up being boring mush.
Now, I'm not suggesting you have to go as far as Bill Maher.
The next time you're giving a corporate presentation and you talk about what idiots are fools your competitors
are, I'm not suggesting that, but I do want you to look at how he frames his arguments.
There's a logic and its own style.
He's not trying to be Mr. Everyman.
He's not trying to be Joe Sixpack or the average Joe.
He's very happy that people know he is the rich Hollywood liberal elite who frankly looks down upon
people who support politicians he doesn't like.
He's okay with that.
He's not trying to fake people out.
He's not trying to be a phony.
But what really makes him so attractive as a speaker is he's consistently funny.
If you watch his opening monologue, unless you just hate his politics, you're going to laugh every
couple of seconds and you're going to think, That makes a really good point.
The other thing he does well is he doesn't try to make himself the star of every conversation.
It is his show.
He does get to speak at the beginning all by himself, his monologue.
He does get the end, but he really does let his guests speak.
And he has guests of varying viewpoints.
They aren't just people who agree with him.
And that makes it more interesting dynamic.
So take a look at the link below.
See what you like about Bill Maher.
See what you don't like about Bill Maher.
Because let's not forget, part of being a great communicator can be simply getting people to talk about
you more, even if the talk is about how much they hate you.
Post your comments.

--- Larry King ---

Larry King is a talk show host known around the world.
He was on CNN for a couple of decades.
You still see him on different networks, cable networks, online networks.
And he's been doing this since the 1950s.
Larry started off in South Florida talk radio.
Actually, one of the first radio stations I ever hosted a show, Larry's broadcasting career turned
out a little better than mine, but he has never really slowed down.
His style is kind of the same, too.
He knows who he is.
He doesn't try to be the smartest, most intellectual interviewer.
He doesn't try to show the audience that he knows more than his guest.
He takes the attitude that he wants to be the stand in for the typical audience member, whether it's
a radio listener or a TV viewer, and ask the questions they would ask if they could speak to that guest.
Now, he's famously said and even been ridiculed for this, but he sticks by it.
He's famously said that he never reads the book of any of his guests in advance because he doesn't want
to know more than his audience does.
He wants to be able to discover the ideas of the author at the same time the audience does.
It's worked for him.
That also saves a lot of prep time.
He uses simple words, simple language, and he doesn't try to lead the guest in a lot of different
directions.
He lets the guest say what they want to say.
He's also interesting in that he's not your typical good looking Hollywood matinee.
He didn't get here because he was the best looking person necessarily, even the most charming.
But he is someone who is just there day in, day out.
He has a passion for asking questions, a passion for his craft and a passion for communication.
Now, I have seen him speak many times at various conventions, and he's really funny when he speaks
now, he tends to tell the same stories, but he gets great laughs from the audience.
He has even done stand up comedy in the past, early in his career and even occasionally now.
So quite versatile as a communicator.
But his main thing is sitting hunched over, asking questions of guests, and that has been his communication
style that's worked for him since the 1950s.
Take a look at the clip below to figure out what do you like about his style?
What do you not like?
Post your comments in the Q and A section.

--- Nelson Mandela ---

Nelson Mandela is one of the most motivational figures in history.
He was imprisoned for 27 years, essentially for the crime of being black.
Now, I've linked below to the first speech he gave after his release from prison.
And what is kind of shocking to see is just how relaxed he looks, how happy he looks.
You would expect someone to be bitter, angry after having half their life lost by being in prison,
treated like a criminal.
And yet when you look at if you didn't know who he was and you didn't know the background, you would
see this person speaking.
And for all you know, it's a wildly successful billionaire entrepreneur talking about the latest venture,
just saying from the demeanour how he holds himself the smile.
So sometimes how you communicate is about a larger context.
Here's someone who was so mistreated for his whole life and didn't have a trace of bitterness.
There wasn't vindictiveness there that attracts the whole world.
The whole world came to his cause and celebrated him.
When he does speak.
He has definite poise, he great voice.
He looks good.
All of those things are important.
But the far bigger issue is this sheer context of his courage, what he'd been through.
Now, that's not something that you and I can duplicate.
We can't all of a sudden be more credible to our colleagues at the office or the trade association by
serving in prison.
So I certainly don't mean to make light of it, but I want to make certain that you can't just manufacture
that.
Sometimes it's just a circumstance or a figure in history, and then it's about what do you do with
it?
He certainly made the most of it and he used his voice to speak out.
So any time you speak, part of it is the audience's judging who you are as a person, also how you're
coming across.
And because of that, I think he goes down in history is not just one of the great inspirational figures
and inspirational leaders, but also a great communicator because he was so effective at communicating
reconciliation, rebuilding his country, bringing people together and not spreading more hatred and
violence.
Take a look.
Truly an inspirational figure.

--- Emeril Lagasse ---

He's one of the most famous, successful, popular TV chefs of all time, perhaps the most popular Emeril
Lagasse.
He has had so many shows, he essentially made the Food Network.
And there are times when he seems like he's just dominating pop culture everywhere you see him, cable
shows.
He had a sitcom for a while, believe it or not.
He has restaurants everywhere, books, products in every grocery store and department store.
And he does it in part because of his ability to communicate effectively.
Most restaurant critics and serious chefs, if they look at his recipes, are not that impressed.
But what does impress people is how he communicates on TV.
He doesn't worry about the fact that he has a strong Massachusetts acts.
And I'm not very good at accents, obviously, but he has a Massachusetts accent.
For those of you outside the United States, that's a regional accent that isn't considered particularly
attractive or popular for TV stars.
He is heavy.
His maybe has more hair than I do, but a little thin on top.
So my point is, he's not a matinee idol.
Beautiful.
George Clooney doesn't matter.
He's a great communicator.
He just exudes his passion for food.
And he has certain catchphrase.
Bam, Let's take it up a notch.
And audiences love him.
He also wasn't afraid to experiment by mixing genres.
His TV show was the first to fuse a cooking show with a band.
Kind of like a late night TV talk show.
Has he fused those two together?
He's also the first TV chef that I know of who did his own sitcom.
Now, it wasn't a big hit, but he wasn't a he wasn't afraid to try new things.
He experiments.
He's always trying new avenues of speaking out, showing his passion for food, cooking, enjoying life.
And when you watch him, you really do get the sense that he enjoys cooking, he enjoys eating.
He can just say garlic.
And I've seen audiences go, whoa, He's mentioned garlic as if it were the most brilliant, exciting
thing in the world.
Well, to him it is.
He puts his excitement into the food, into the cooking and eating, and that's what makes him a powerful
presenter.
That's why his presentation skills are so good.
He is all into it.
Now, one thing that's a little bit easier for chefs, I would say, than just a typical person giving
a PowerPoint presentation or even speaking on TV.
When you're a chef, you're doing things with your hands, you're doing things with your body, it naturally
animates you more.
That makes it a little easier.
So if you're not a chef, think of things you can do.
Walk around the room, move, gesture to people.
Take a look at the clip.
Post your comments here.

--- Les Brown ---

Les Brown has been one of the premier motivational speakers in the United States and throughout the
world for three decades.
A lot of people I talk about in this course are famous for other things.
They were talk show hosts, chefs, politicians.
Les Brown is one of these pure speakers.
That's what he does.
That's what he's known for.
His base is the platform in front of people speaking.
Now, as a motivational speaker, it is key to have a great personal backstory.
And he has a compelling, compelling story.
He talks about being born into extreme poverty, no father actually being labeled.
--.
That's what they called you back then.
And people didn't even know if he could read.
And he overcame all of that to become wildly successful, to get elected to public office, have his
own briefly nationally syndicated TV show.
But for the most part, to just be successful, wildly successful motivational speaker seen on platforms
all over the world.
So he's got this tremendous backstory of what he overcame, talked about how he did it, but he does
it from a purely technical standpoint, flawlessly.
Great story, great emotion, great movement humor.
It's like going to a Broadway show and he's compelling.
He's good at it.
He enjoys his craft.
I've met him, by the way.
I've even been to his trainings when he has conducted workshops at the National Speakers Association
in Delightful person and someone who is in the history books already for one of the best motivational
speakers ever.
Take a look below.
Some people don't like motivational speakers and say, Well, you know, they all say the same thing.
I had a bad time.
I made it.
You can, too.
Work hard, have goals.
A certain amount of that criticism is fair, I think, for any motivational speaker.
But you have to really appreciate the craft, respect the craft to learn from it, because it can help
any speaker, anyone present their ideas more effectively.
You don't have to mimic him or anyone else, but you can borrow and learn from the things they do well.
So take a look.
Post your comments in the Q&amp;A section.

--- Rachel Ray ---

Rachael Ray is an American talk show host.
She's an author.
She gives people quick tips on how to cook meals.
In less than 30 minutes.
She's had her own cooking shows, daytime talk shows.
She's a lifestyle brand ambassador.
She is everywhere and never really run a successful restaurant, not really known as a great chef,
but she is great at communicating her passion, helping people, helping them cook meals quickly, briefly
having a lifestyle they want.
And here's what I think is fascinating about Rachael Ray.
In part, she has kind of a screechy, irritating voice, doesn't let it bother her, doesn't bother
anyone else.
When I'm in trainings so often the first thing people comment on after I've recorded them first, ask
them to look at themselves, judge their own video as they tell me they don't like their own voice.
And yet every client I've ever had has a voice as good or better than Rachael Ray.
And Rachael Ray is wildly successful in terms of reach, influence, impact and wealth.
By speaking.
So I hope when you watch your video, it does allow you to put in perspective any qualms you have about
your own voice.
What Rachael Ray does is she communicates in an authentic way.
She just seems like the girlfriend down the street, your sister's friend, your person you grew up
with.
She doesn't put on fancy airs.
She doesn't seem pretentious.
She doesn't act like she's the world's greatest chef.
At a fancy Michelin four star French restaurant.
She's giving you tips on how you can live your life effectively, make quick meals, enjoy life.
Now she's into furniture, everything else.
But she always has a big smile on her face.
She exudes a certain joy, a certain fun that comes out.
People just want to hang out with her.
So when you are coming up with your own presentation, it doesn't matter if it's the driest, most boring
budget issues for your work.
You do need to think about how can you exude the sense that you're a fun person, that someone should
want to listen to you and enjoy themselves and not think, How do I get out of here at this meeting?
How do I get away?
Or how can I start sending messages on my cell phone?
You want to exude the sense that you're fun, nice, likable.
Take a look at the video.
Comment on anything else.
You notice that you think she does well as a communicator, but also there are things you don't like.
Put that in the Q and A section.

--- Eleanor Roosevelt ---

Eleanor Roosevelt is probably not someone you've watched give a speech in a while.
She's been dead for many decades.
She's the former first lady of the United States, married to Franklin Delano Roosevelt.
And she changed the role of first lady.
She said, I've got a spotlight.
I've got a bully pulpit.
I'm going to use it.
So she used her position to really speak out in favor of all sorts of rights, human rights.
She was speaking at the UN frequently all over the world for political issues, social issues she cared
about.
Now, she did this while at the same time getting tremendous amounts of hate mail.
People hated her.
They hated her looks.
They hated her accent.
They mocked her teeth.
They threatened to kill her.
She got so much vitriol thrown her way and she said, I don't care.
I'm just going to continue speaking out.
She wasn't someone who ran for office herself, but she was someone who realized, I now have this platform,
why don't I make the most of it?
So she spoke.
She spoke frequently.
She spoke everywhere.
She did speak with passion.
And she spoke in a way that was able to get her ideas across.
Is she the most compelling, magical speaker you've ever seen?
No, but I include her in this list because I do think she's a great example of someone who withstood
a lot of adversity, a lot of attacks, not a natural speaker, not someone just born for the spotlight,
but decided she had this opportunity, she was going to use it and use it to try to make the world a
better place.
And that's why she's still talked about today.
So take a look below.
Figure out what you like, what you don't like.

--- Steve Jobs ---

Steve Jobs was a brilliant businessman who revolutionized the computer industry and home electronic
gadgets, iPads, iPods, iPhones.
He was known especially for his ability to give great product launch speeches.
Now, traditionally, people think of Tech Guy and they're mostly guys, tech guys as being boring nerdy
geeks lost in the details.
And Steve Jobs had none of that when he launched a new product.
He gave a great speech.
He was known for practicing, rehearsing again and again and again.
He wanted to get it just right.
You didn't see him standing back to the audience reading a bunch of bullet points on a PowerPoint slide
or his version of PowerPoint keynote.
Now, you saw him walking across the stage with confidence, relaxed, speaking to people.
Occasional humor, a little surprise.
And then typically images one at a time on the screen.
He was also not afraid to use props.
He wanted to show how thin a new laptop was.
He would walk over, pull it out of an envelope to demonstrate how thin it was.
He realizes that when it comes to getting consumers excited about your new products, it's not all the
facts and the specs and the gigahertz and the megahertz and the database numbers.
It's how is this thing going to have an impact on your life?
Why should you be excited about it?
Great Communicator really raised the bar for all entrepreneurs, everyone in the tech space.
Take a look at the video below.
Figure out what you like, what you don't like.
Figure out what he does that you can do in your own presentations.
The other reason I like pointing him out is he was not known as someone extra gregarious, backslapping,
just loving, talking to people all the time.
He was known as a bit of a loner, as a bit of an introvert.
Guess what?
It doesn't matter.
If you want to give a great presentation, you will.
You want to come up with excuses to why you can't.
Then you won't.
Take a look.
Leave your comments.

--- Johnny Carson ---

Johnny Carson hosted The Tonight Show for 30 years.
And this was back when television was a really big deal in that era.
People didn't have the Internet.
There weren't 505,000 channels and video options to choose from.
You basically had three channels.
And if you wanted to watch something after the evening news after 11:00, you really didn't have much
choice.
So there were times when it appeared as if the entire nation watched Johnny Carson and he stayed in
front of people and spoke virtually every night for 30 years.
And he had a nearly 50 year career in show business.
But 30 years is a tremendous track record, and I don't think anyone is ever going to do that again
as far as being in that high a percentage of homes.
Certainly there are TV stars now who make more money, who perhaps have more shows or on more hours
of the day.
But as far as being in front of basically a third of the country, I don't think anyone in the United
States will face that.
And I doubt and I know most of you are in different countries around the world.
I doubt any of you have any one performer who is that dominant.
It's simply not possible in the current world where there's so many distribution options for video programming.
What Carson did that was special is he revealed just the right amount of himself, his personality,
his foibles.
He made fun of his own divorces, but without talking too much, you didn't get sick of him.
And I was never a huge fan, but I certainly did watch him.
Everyone watched him at some point.
He was just such a dominant cultural force.
He opened every show with a monologue where he went through the top stories.
You didn't really know where he was politically.
He made fun of people all across the spectrum, was seen as being fair minded and a gentleman, and
he kept a certain demeanor about him.
He was from Nebraska.
He had this all-American accent, the all-American look.
And he just seemed true to himself.
He didn't seem like a Hollywood phony.
He didn't seem like he was trying to be extra cool.
He didn't seem like he was trying to be extra folksy.
He just came across as authentic.
He was quick witted.
He was so comfortable in his skin that he could just really listen to people and talk to them, listen
and react to them.
That's what made him a good host.
He could pull more interesting things out of his guests.
He wasn't afraid to give them the spotlight.
Take a look.
He's been off the air now for a long time, since 1992.
But a lot of his style, his persona, his presentation skills still hold up.
Take a look.
Leave your comments.

--- Warren Buffett ---

We all know that finance is supposed to be boring, right?
Investors are supposed to be dry.
Bunch of numbers.
Put everyone to sleep, right?
Well, that is true most of the time.
But Warren Buffett is the exception to the rule now.
He happens to be the most successful investor of all time.
He's also an excellent communicator.
He's great at presenting his ideas.
The thing that's different about Warren Buffett from most portfolio managers and investors is that he
doesn't feel the need to go through every little number, every little detail and bore people to death.
He's able to talk in human terms, simple language, avoid jargon, avoid technical terms.
And he's not afraid to speak with emotion.
He likes Coke and Dairy Queen.
He talks about how he loves drinking Coke and eating Dairy Queen.
Or in his case, he likes Cherry Cokes.
I think when people ask him, when are you going to retire?
He says, I'm like a schoolgirl sitting by the phone waiting for the the call to be asked out to the
prom.
I'm so excited.
I'm giddy about going to work.
And you may say some of his examples are dated.
He is close to 90 years old as of this recording, but he comes across as likable, as friendly, as
avuncular, and as someone who's smart but isn't full of himself.
He consistently is able to explain why he likes a business, why he thinks it is valuable, why other
people may want to be a part of it.
And he's able to explain why he thinks people should invest in his company, even though his company
is incredibly complex, unlike a lot of companies these days on the public markets.
So even if you don't love finance and don't invest at all, I urge you take a look at the video I've
selected for you and see for yourself how you can talk about finance and be comfortable, be relaxed.
Be happy.
When he speaks, you get the sense there's nothing in the world he'd rather be doing than talking to
you and the audience about his business and what it is he does.
You don't get the sense that this is sort of drudgery we have to do.
Take a look.
Leave your comments.

--- David Letterman ---

David Letterman is a comedian talk show host who's been extraordinarily famous and successful in the
United States for many, many decades.
He hosted late night programs on several different networks, retired from his own show on CBS a few
years ago, tried retirement, got bored, and now he's back doing talk shows for Netflix.
What's the key to his success as a host?
I want you to take a look below and see what you think.
If you watch enough of David Letterman, one thing you'll notice is he stammers a great deal.
Lots of obs and obs.
It's not that he's the most articulate person.
Lots of us, lots of ums.
A lot of his insecurities come through.
He always basically talks about himself like he's the coolest guy in the room.
He is notoriously neurotic.
You would say he's not the warm, friendly, cuddly person that a lot of talk show hosts are, and yet
wildly successful decade after decade after decade, various shows, various networks.
Why is that?
Part of it is he was funny.
And if you're a comedian doing late night comedy and late night talk shows, that is number one.
If you can get people to laugh, they'll forgive a lot of other things.
But also, he didn't try to make the show about himself.
He definitely listened to his audience as he gave a fair, fair hearing to all of his guests, was respectful
to everyone, seemed genuinely curious, seemed to grow on the job over the years.
So I want you to take a look at one of his clips.
Tell me what you see.
To me, he's fascinating because I have so many clients.
We do a recording.
They watch themselves.
They said three arms, everything else was great.
And they're like, Oh my gosh, TJ, I should just quit.
Give up.
This is horrible.
I said, Um hum.
Um, And then I remind them David Letterman says more than that sometimes every 30s.
And he was on TV for decade after decade after decade.
No one seemed to care that he said, uh, and, um, a lot.
So take a look at it.
Nothing else.
Let it remind you, you don't have to be perfect.
If you can do 1 or 2 things well, in your presentation, your audience will forgive the other things.
Take a look.
Leave your comments.

--- Judge Judy ---

Do you want to know what the highest paid Hollywood celebrity looks like?
Imagine a woman that captures so much attention in Hollywood.
She's paid more than any other woman in Hollywood.
Are you envisioning this?
Well, let me tell you what she looks like.
She's about five feet tall.
Looks like your grandmother, and she's almost 80 years old.
I'm talking about Judge Judy.
Judy Sheindlin.
She is a long time TV judge and she is wildly successful.
She also has a strong New York accent.
She is not anybody's idea of Angelina Jolie or George Clooney or someone glamorous.
And yet she reaches tens and tens of millions of people every week.
They watch her every day on her TV show.
She's the one who's paid basically $1 million a day for her taping sessions when she tapes these shows.
So she's wildly successful, makes lots of money, entertains millions and millions of people.
And she does it sitting down talking.
How does she do that?
Part of it is her persona, the no nonsense New Yorker, the tough judge calling people on their baloney,
calling them out on their BS, reprimanding people.
People like someone stern, telling people you did wrong, you're wrong, you're bad.
They like that.
And she's very clear.
It doesn't seem scripted at all.
She's not memorizing someone else's lines.
She's just being authentic.
And it works for her.
It works for her audiences.
So there's a lot you can learn there.
It's not about your accent, how tall you are, how young you are, how beautiful you are, how good
looking you are.
If you communicate effectively and you're passionate and you're not afraid to be nice occasionally,
but also express just disdain for nonsense.
People will respect that.
They'll like that.
They'll listen to you.
Take a look.
Leave comments in the Q&amp;A section.

--- Billy Graham ---

Billy Graham was famous throughout the world for his evangelism, his crusades, being on TV, but also
gathering together huge crowds.
Now, any of you who've seen him, he's passed away recently.
But in the last ten, 15 years, he's been very soft spoken, elderly.
But in his younger days, he was very fiery, very passionate as a preacher and as a speaker and could
command huge audiences of tens and tens of thousands of people in stadiums would come to watch him.
I actually went to one of his crusades in probably 1967, 68in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and I still
remember it.
A powerful speaker.
He was not one of these preachers who is just trying to speak in academic, intellectual tones.
He certainly didn't spend a lot of time with his head down reading.
He was speaking from the heart, speaking with emotion, and he certainly wasn't afraid to to gesture,
animate, raise his voice.
He used all of his tools.
Now, in his younger days, he was known for having almost Hollywood matinee looks six foot two, thin,
beautiful, thick head of blonde hair.
And he was really quite striking.
The TV cameras loved him and he generated tremendous publicity anywhere he went.
Take a look below.
See the clip.
Look at his passion, look at his excitement.
Might not be your style.
You might not care for his religion or any religion.
That's okay.
You can still learn communication secrets by looking at some of the masters.
And he was a master.
Take a look.
Leave a comment.

--- Dr. Phil ---

Imagine you are going to create from scratch in a laboratory the perfect TV host, the perfect communicator
to bring in millions and millions of viewers.
Would you pick someone who has small beady eyes, completely bald, kind of a strong regional, non
prestigious accent.
A mustache.
That's not very flattering.
You probably wouldn't.
And yet I just described Dr. Phil.
Dr. Phil McGraw, the American TV personality.
He was first discovered by Oprah.
He started as a guest on Oprah's show, then became a regular once a week.
And then he's had his own show now for quite some time and continues to generate huge ratings.
What's his success?
It's because he's able to speak in a really clear way, call people on their nonsense.
He's not afraid to be positive, negative to criticize, to praise.
He's much more clear spoken than the typical psychology.
He's a psychologist.
He's not a medical doctor.
He's a psychologist.
But he's able to deliver psychological insights in a way that's clearer, simpler, more understandable
than the typical psychologist or the typical expert talking head on TV.
And it's helped him build a mass mass following.
He's not for everyone.
I certainly don't watch him very often, but he is a master communicator.
Take a look.
Post your comments on him in the Q&amp;A section.

--- Joel Osteen ---

The television preacher in America and seen throughout the world who has the largest audience these
days.
The greatest buzz, most talked about and who generates the most money is Joel Osteen.
He's head of a megachurch in Houston, Texas.
And his broadcasts have huge, huge followings, bringing in hundreds of millions of dollars.
So how did this happen?
Is he a guy who went to the most prestigious seminary?
Does he have a doctor in divinity?
No.
Is this a guy who was just born to be a preacher and was preaching since age four like the Reverend
Al Sharpton?
No.
This is a guy who he did grow up in a church.
His father had a church, but was very shy, retiring.
He was the guy who sort of hid in the back of the room playing with the video cameras.
He went to college, studied audio, video stuff, quit, didn't really have a lot of direction in his
life.
But then one day, his father, who was the minister of a church, died.
Next thing you know, he's filling in and a little awkward at first, but he gets more comfortable with
it and more comfortable.
And he builds and builds and builds and he develops a particular style.
Now, I recommend to all of my clients, it doesn't matter what religion they're belong to, it doesn't
matter.
They believe in God or not.
Watch Joel Osteen because every single sermon he delivers is almost a textbook example of good public
speaking.
He focuses on one point.
He tells a story.
The story has a setting.
It has characters.
It has dialogue.
It has a problem, has emotion.
It has a resolution.
When he's speaking to people, he's not speaking to the 40,000 people in the room today.
And my fellow believer, he talks like he's talking to one friend.
He's not talking down to you the way many ministers do from the pulpit, looking down at the laity.
He talks like he's talking to one friend over the kitchen table.
So he's not grating.
Doesn't wear out, doesn't feel like a pounding the way some preachers and some speakers do.
It's conversational.
He moves around.
Now he does use notes.
He has a lectern, but he's not wedded to it.
He's not touching it.
He's not standing behind it.
So you want a master class on how to speak, especially speaking with new material every week.
Look at the clip below.
Post your comments in the Q&amp;A section.

--- John F. Kennedy ---

John F Kennedy is held up by many to be one of the best speakers of the 20th century.
He inspires a lot of people who've seen his speeches, whether it's on television, on YouTube or experienced
it live, if they're old enough.
But a lot of people don't know the story behind John F Kennedy's speaking.
He was actually an extremely nervous public speaker, even as president.
When people stood behind him, they said you could see his hands shaking, his knees, knocking together.
He made it look natural with a smile on his face, but it didn't come naturally.
Now, I'm not old enough to have seen John F Kennedy when he was president, but I am old enough to
have met with people, talked with people who knew Kennedy and saw him back when he was a congressman
in the 1950s and would come up here to New York and give fundraising speeches.
And they tell me he was awful.
They said he would come in, head down reading.
All you would see is this thick shock of hair, absolutely nothing remarkable, nothing particularly
interesting or captivating about him.
But he learned running for Congress, then for the Senate, then president.
He advanced at every stage and he decided he was going to get better at this.
And even though he felt nervous, he wasn't going to let that show.
Now, one of the things you'll see and I've selected his inaugural address here, there's a lot of classical
rhetorical devices.
Ask not what your country can do for you.
Ask what you can do for your country.
These are formalistic ancient rhetorical devices that were quite effective.
Now, one of the.
Reasons why he did this, according to experts, is that he was kind of insecure about being so young,
running for president, really not having accomplished much in his political career.
So by using ancient rhetorical devices or rhetorical devices, he would make himself appear to have
more stature every once in a while.
If you want to use a rhetorical device, something that's formalistic classical, you can get away with
it.
You do too many.
It'll seem overly formal, stuffy, artificial, contrived.
I think it worked for him.
I don't think this style would work for most politicians most of the time these days.
But still, take a look.
Figure out what you like, don't like, and enjoy.
Post your comments in the Q&amp;A section.

--- Malcolm X ---

Malcolm X was a fiery civil rights leader in the 60s, and you can see in the clip below extremely passionate.
What made him an effective speaker was speaking in a way that in the beginning was very controlled,
almost straight laced, conservative, very conservative suit hairstyle, everything about him.
He could have passed as a banker, starting off slowly.
But once he started, he spoke with tremendous passion.
You could tell he was filled with rage at how black people in America were treated.
And he had great animation, energy, volume, passion.
He didn't just say things intellectually.
He said, Who taught us to hate the color of our own skin, the shape of our own nose.
Dramatic, compelling, descriptive.
Visual.
Interesting.
And memorable.
Take a look.
Leave your comments in the Q and A.

--- Margaret Thatcher ---

Former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher was a strong and forceful communicator, an excellent
orator.
She honed her craft.
Way back in college at the Oxford Debate Society, she was a part of that and was a part of public life
her whole career.
When she became prime minister, she was ready.
She was known for a great turn of phrase.
She knew how soundbites worked.
She would say things like, This lady's not for turning, letting people know she's not going to flip
flop on positions.
She was definitely someone who gave a lot of thought to imagery.
She always had her hair in exactly the same style, not a hair out of place.
She had a great friendship and almost a partnership with Ronald Reagan.
She identified with him.
He identified with her.
They were both trying to implement conservative policies in their countries and to do it in a particular
style.
She also was careful to carry a purse.
Believe it or not, she believed in certain symbolism to make her seem approachable and down to earth,
and yet she still had a regal bearing to her.
Take a look at the clip.
She is incredibly articulate, poised.
The confidence comes out.
The is coming out.
You do not for a second doubt her.
And when you hear how forceful she is, you don't want to get in her way.
Take a look.
Leave your comments.

--- Martin Luther King Jr. ---

Martin Luther King Jr is considered by many to have given the best speech of the 20th century.
He is I Have a Dream speech.
Now, what people don't know is that that was only one speech he gave that year.
He gave about 300 speeches that year.
I've linked to it below.
I do want you to take a look at it.
But part of why he's good is that he spoke so frequently.
And even though he was there on the Washington Mall with such a huge, gigantic tens and tens of thousands
of people there in the audience, he wasn't that nervous, in part because he spoke so frequently.
And when you speak enough, you can get comfortable enough to think on your feet.
Because here's the thing.
People don't know the whole I have a dream repetition.
He did spontaneously.
Now he given that speech before sections of it, but it wasn't actually written into the speech that
day.
He decided spot taneously to add it in and to react to the audience.
That's not something you can do.
If you give one speech a year, you're going to be too nervous.
You're going to want to stick to the script.
And this is why speaking frequently, not just giving great speeches, but speaking frequently helps
so much.
I do want you to notice the poise.
He's not rushed at all.
Most people, if you got in front of tens of 100,000 people, you'd be like, oh my gosh, let me finish
and get out of here.
He's in no rush.
He pauses.
He speaks slowly.
At the beginning.
He builds in the excitement.
He builds in the passion.
And even though he's looking at a script, when he is speaking with passion, he looks out at people.
His voice is used as an instrument in its full range.
It's still a great speech.
Sends chills up the spine of many people who watch it.
I hope you enjoy it.
Take a look at it.
Learn from it.
Some of the style may feel dated to you.
You can't necessarily do this the next time you're presenting to ask for a raise in your office with
your boss.
But look at the things you can do.
Speaking from passion, speaking frequently, pausing to make a point.
More important, those are things you can do in any presentation.
Take a look.
Leave a comment.

--- Abraham Lincoln ---

Abraham Lincoln.
I have him on the list.
No, I haven't seen him.
No, I haven't watched video of Abraham Lincoln giving a speech.
But there are so many replicas of this reenactments.
It's such a part of popular culture in the United States and around the world.
I felt I had to include it.
The Gettysburg Address is considered by many to be the finest speech ever.
I don't feel that strongly about it.
When I ask people what was the point that was so profound?
People say, I don't even know what the speech was about.
Or they'll say, Well, it was just commemorating lost soldiers at a grave at Gettysburg.
Either way, the message is not that powerful.
What is powerful is the poetry of how it was written.
The beauty of the words, the elegance of the words.
And a lot of people are drawn into just how tight it was.
Now, people like to talk about his speech was two minutes.
The senator after him spoke for an hour.
Nobody remembers that guy.
I think that's the wrong lesson to learn from the Gettysburg Address in Lincoln, because what people
don't realize is Lincoln never would have given the Gettysburg Address.
If he hadn't also developed the skill of speaking for five hours at a time.
When he did Lincoln-Douglas debates with Douglass, they would speak for five hours so Lincoln could
speak as long or as short as he needed to.
So don't fetishize being extra concise and speaking for two minutes.
It's better to speak longer if you get people to remember it and take action.
Other things.
And you typically don't see this in reenactments of Lincoln's Gettysburg Address is he was known for
having sort of a high pitched, screechy voice.
But interesting historical fact, this was in the days before electricity, obviously amplification
speakers.
So having a high pitched voice a little bit grating, carried further when you're in a big crowd in
front of thousands of people.
His voice went further.
It made it easier for people to hear it.
So it actually helped him.
Take a look at this reenactment below.
I know it's not exactly the same thing, but it's the best we have.
Take a look.
Leave your comments about Lincoln, his speaking and Gettysburg Address.

--- Pat Robertson ---

Pat Robertson is one of the most persuasive presenters speakers America has ever produced.
He's a famous TV evangelist, broadcast entrepreneur and politician.
Pat Robertson studied to be in the ministry.
His father had been a United States senator, so he grew up a fluent, powerful sort of upper crust
society.
He went to Yale Law School, then had a change of heart, went into the ministry, went to seminary,
went into the ministry and decided he was going to reach people through television.
He bought a low power TV station and figured out what his monthly nut was.
It was $7,000 a month.
So he figured if he could get 700 people to pledge to give him $10 a month, he'd have $7,000.
He'd be able to stay on the air.
So that's how he started the 700 Club.
He bought a TV station and started asking people for money.
Here we are.
It's 55 years later and he is still going at it 58 years later and he's not slowing down.
He has a massive TV empire, the family channel.
He's still on the air every day.
He ran for president in 1988, didn't do that well, but did shape American politics a great deal and
is still wildly influential.
What Pat Robertson did is he fused together several formats.
He has the preacher side of him talking about his particular religion, but he also had a lot of the
elements of traditional talk shows.
He had different sidekicks over the years, sometimes entertainment, sometimes cooking segments, all
things to build a larger audience.
When you see him speak, even to this day, he has a twinkle in his eye.
You might not like his politics, you might hate his politics, but he has this twinkle in his eye,
this cherubic smile on his face.
He just has this ability to make people feel warm and to like him and to make you feel like he's warm
and friendly, even if he's saying hateful things, which to his critics, he does a great deal.
He's conversational, he's fluent.
He has a certain erudition to what he does, the way he speaks.
An Ivy League lawyer, PhD, clearly an educated, bright person, but still able to explain things
in simple terms to reach a mass mass audience.
The other thing I have to give him credit for, and this is something you're seeing as a consistent
pattern great communicators are great in part because they do it every single day for weeks, for months,
for years, for decades, for half centuries and beyond.
You probably notice we don't have a lot of people on this list that I'm spotlighting who did a weekly
talk show or who did three speeches a year.
There's simply not enough time under your belt to get really good at it.
So I hope if nothing else, you take away the lesson, whether it's from Pat Robertson or others.
Look for more opportunities to speak.
Seek out your own opportunities.
These days, anyone can start a YouTube channel.
Pat Robertson had to do it.
Give him some credit.
He had to do it the hard way.
He had to go out and buy a TV station and then get 700 people to pledge to give him money.
You don't have to do that anymore if you want to share your views with the world.
So take a look.
Learn what you can, borrow, what you want, disregard what you don't like.

--- Zig Ziglar ---

If you are looking for the classic, quintessential American motivational speaker, you're not going
to do any better than Zig Ziglar.
He passed away in 2012, but had a remarkable career spanning many, many decades as perhaps the foremost
motivational speaker out on the circuit.
I've seen him speak a couple of times, and he really does have an art form down when he's speaking.
It's not that you're hearing that many unique insights you've never heard before, but he has a theatricality
to it.
When he reenacts proposing to his wife, he gets down on one knee, he moves around the whole stage.
He uses every inch of it.
He tells compelling stories that are visual, memorable, the characters, the dialogue, the problems,
how he felt, and he delivers what he promises.
He's not some tech evangelist.
He's not a financial genius.
He is sort of a good old fashioned, traditional American motivational speaker.
Some people may think it's corny.
That's okay.
You may think some of it is trite.
That's okay.
I do want you to take a look at at least for a few minutes, and pay attention to the stagecraft of
it.
Everything he does comes across with his personality, his Texas twang, the emotion, the energy,
the movement.
It's all there.
And it worked decade after decade after decade to audiences around the globe, but especially American
audiences.
It's a classic.
He's not around anymore.
Take a look.
Leave your comments.

--- Franklin D. Roosevelt ---

Franklin Delano Roosevelt was the American president who led the country and in part the world through
the first Great Depression.
He was known in part by his so called fireside chats, which weren't really beside a fire, where he
addressed the nation through radio.
And with these statements, he really bonded with the country and he had so many memorable phrases.
Also with his inaugural addresses and other major addresses, he had a good eye for other people's writing.
Now, this president didn't write his own speeches, but he was good at editing his speechwriters,
making it his own, keeping the good phrases that were given to him.
And so we associate him with phrases like we have nothing to fear but fear itself.
Now, he was not known as naturally a great speechmaker.
Through most of his career, he was known as sort of patrician.
During his early career, he was viewed as somewhat of a lightweight, someone who wasn't that serious.
A student, hadn't really accomplished anything.
But then after he got polio, that seemed to really wake him up in a way, he became much more serious
about life, his career, and that changed people's perspectives of him as well.
So take a look at this speech below.
Some of it is going to sound artificial to you, overly formalistic, almost speechifying, but there
is a poetry to some of it.
There is a grace, there's an elegance to the way he communicates.
And at the time, it really was what the United States needed made so many people feel better, helped
lead the country through rapid, rapid transition at every single level of government change policy,
economic change, military change, and everything included.

--- Teddy Roosevelt ---

In 1912, Teddy Roosevelt was about to give a speech and somebody shot him.
But he was so devoted to speaking, campaigning, speaking out on behalf of his beliefs, he still gave
the speech.
His shirt was bloody.
He told his audience he'd been shot.
He actually pulled out his speech.
Thankfully, his speech was 50 pages long.
And in part, the thickness of that manuscript is what some experts believe saved his life because it
didn't pierce his body and kill him.
Commitment like that to speaking is rare.
I know.
I feel pretty committed to speaking.
I'll speak if I have a headache.
I'll speak if there's a thunderstorm out, if we lose electricity.
But if someone shoots me, I'm not going to speak.
He's different.
He had a commitment.
Now, you may be surprised to see I actually found video of him speaking.
It's more than 100 years old, but you can still see his energy, the hand motion.
He's not one of these guys who are just sort of standing, reading and you're seeing lips move.
He spoke with his whole body.
He brought tremendous passion to everything he did in life, whether it was writing 40 books or having
a farm with hundreds of employees and every kind of wildlife.
He led a passionate life, and it came out in every single speech.
I'm fortunate to live really just a few miles down the street from the Teddy Roosevelt Museum here in
Long Island in New York.
And it's a treat to go there if you ever get a chance, you should.
But watch the video.
Listen carefully.
His voice is kind of high pitched.
It's not what we think of as this great, powerful voice.
But his ideas were powerful.
His passion was powerful, and he didn't let anything slow him down.
Not even a bullet.
Take a watch a listen.
Leave your comments.

--- Anthony Robbins ---

Since 1988.
The personal development speaker who's had the biggest impact on audiences here in the United States
and in other parts of the world has been Anthony Robbins.
Many people grew up watching him on infomercials, and he became a bit of a joke.
But he's not a joke to the people who love him.
He has a passionate, passionate following, and how he comes across on stage is a little different
than how he comes across on TV.
On TV, everybody is the same size, but on stage, his massive six foot seven giant guy, powerful
voice and is indeed a fantastic speaker.
I've been to one of his three day events and I can tell you he is a force.
He is a true force of nature from the platform.
Even if you don't like him, even if you think it's cheesy, this whole motivational speaking stuff.
I urge you Anthony Robbins comes to your town.
You should see him once.
It is an extraordinary performance.
Now you'll see examples of Neuro-linguistic programming.
You'll see mass hypnosis.
There are a lot of things he does to engage the audience.
Some people like them, some people don't.
There's a lot of high fiving.
Turn to your neighbor and massage their neck.
Things that I personally don't really like.
Turn to your neighbor and tell them your innermost fears and dreams for your life.
But it works for him.
It works for the vast majority of the people in his audience.
To me, he's also a perfect example of it's not about being concise, being short.
Clients come to me all the time and say, TJ, teach me to be a concise speaker.
I'm speaking for ten minutes.
I only want to speak for two.
And my question is always, Well, why?
Why is two minutes better than ten minutes?
If you're boring and uninteresting and unmemorable?
Nobody's going to give you credit for speaking for two minutes.
I've seen Anthony Robbins speak from ten inches the morning until midnight and people wanted more.
Now, I'm not suggesting you have to start off every board meeting or conference you go to with a 14
hour speech.
What I am suggesting, though, is focus first and foremost on being interesting to your audience,
engaging to your audience, memorable to your audience.
If you do that, time will take care of itself.
And by the way, Anthony Robbins can speak in short amounts, too.
He's spoken at Ted conferences for 17 minutes, and the audiences loved him there as well.
Take a look.
Leave your comments.

--- Deepak Chopra ---

For more than three decades, Deepak Chopra has been one of the most influential health and wellness
experts known throughout the world.
He's originally from New Delhi, India, but came to the United States.
This is his home base, and he is just a master at communicating his vision of health, meditation and
how someone can live a disease free, healthy life.
That's his expertise.
Now, he was trained in a traditional Western medical program, was a medical doctor, but his fused
together Eastern philosophies, meditation, healthy eating, because he frankly got sick of writing
so many prescriptions for pills for his patients.
That is his motivation, in his own words, of why he got into this.
Now, I think he's fascinating as a speaker, in part because he doesn't let the fact that he has a
strong Indian accent slow him down.
Many people I find clients from all over the world say, TJ, I have an accent.
I'm worried no one will understand me, no one will like me.
And their accent is much easier for the typical American or Western or English speaking audience to
understand than Deepak Chopra.
And yet he's wildly successful.
He has appeared on Oprah countless times.
He's had his own shows.
He's had gazillions of books, radio show.
He's everywhere.
He's also someone who uses new media.
You see him in documentaries.
You see him on YouTube.
You see him starting his own social media sites all over the place.
He's constantly out there.
He has his ideas.
He has a passion for sharing ideas.
He is more than 70 years old now, but he's not slowing down writing books, speaking engagements on
line media, traditional media guest on shows.
He's speaking, speaking, speaking, sharing his passion.
That's what great communicators do.
That's what great presenters do.
They don't let the fact that they don't have a standard accent for that culture slow them down.
They don't let the fact that they're over 65 or 70 slow them down.
They don't let the fact that they were good in one medium of traditional books with traditional publishers
and now the world's gone to blogging and social media slow them down.
They just adapt to each new medium, continue sharing their message.
He is, in that regard, a true inspiration.
Take a look at the video below.
Leave your comments on what you like don't like about his speaking style.

--- Gary Vaynerchuk ---

Gary Vaynerchuk is an American entrepreneur and a social media genius.
These days, if you're on social media, it's hard to miss him.
He's seemingly omnipresent with his videos, his podcast, his books are everywhere.
His speeches dominate on YouTube.
This is a guy who really started without any of the normal trappings of stardom, wasn't from a rich
family, successful family.
He wasn't a best selling author.
He didn't go to a prestigious school.
He was just a guy who barely got through college, worked at his dad's liquor store.
But he was very entrepreneurial.
Even at a young age.
He was selling baseball cards, making a lot of money as a teenager.
So he decided he would market his dad's liquor store, the wine section of it, by doing an online video
show on YouTube talking about wine.
He created TV Wine Library.
This was early in the Internet days and certainly early in YouTube days.
And it took off.
It didn't take off right away, as he says he did a year's worth of shows before he got much feedback
at all, but by doing a show every single day.
For many, many years, 15 minutes a day.
He built his audience.
First it was slow and then faster.
And then it grew and grew and grew.
He got better at it.
He got more comfortable in this.
He built an audience.
And from that he got on every kind of TV show, got book deals, basically became rich and famous and
asked to speak everywhere.
When you see him on stage, he has this tremendous passion.
He really exudes authenticity.
He's cursing.
He's using the F-word every two seconds.
He's kind of messy, unshaven, jeans, t shirt.
But he is himself and he sees it as his mission to empower people to start their own businesses, to
start their websites, to start their Internet companies, to be entrepreneurial, live their vision.
And he tells you how to do at least how he did it and gives people advice on that.
Now, he also has an agency with hundreds and hundreds of employees around the country helping other
organizations on how to use social media, how to speak effectively.
But I do want you to watch him because it might not be your style.
You might not want to curse.
You might not want to wear t shirts and jeans when you speak.
But I do want you to see that the sheer energy, the idea of like him reading a speech and getting behind
a lectern, you can't even comprehend it.
He has this tremendous energy that comes out, this excitement, this passion for helping people communicate,
and it comes through with everything he touches.
Take a look.
Post your comments in the Q and A section.

--- Suze Orman ---

The world of finance is typically dominated by men.
It's a male dominated field.
But Susie Orman stands out.
She's done extraordinarily well in this field of personal finance.
She has TV shows, infomercials, radio shows, books.
She is a multi media conglomerate, and she speaks from the stage at rallies, events, trade associations
all over the country, selling her ideas of how people should manage their personal finances more effectively.
Now, if you listen to enough personal finance experts after a while, most of them say the same thing
Get rid of bad debt, cut your spending.
Be very careful about where you invest, diversify, use low cost index funds.
There's a lot of the same information out there with.
Suze Orman does well, though.
Is she really bonds with her audience?
She gives them the sense that I'm not some highfalutin banker who went to Harvard Business School wearing
the three piece pinstripe suit.
I'm just like one of you.
I'm one of your girlfriends.
Her education is that of a social worker.
It's not MBA finance.
She's someone who was a waitress before she really got into this field.
So she's much more relatable to people.
She's not afraid to be funny, to throw out zingers, to really show personality.
I've seen her from the stage before and she comes across as funny, likable, and it doesn't matter
if she's talking to five people or 15,000 people.
She sounds like she's talking to one girlfriend over a cup of coffee.
It's a loose conversational style, relaxed.
It's friendly, it's non-threatening.
And yet she's not afraid to say, cut up your credit card.
She's not afraid to be stern.
And so she can come across almost like a motherly figure, really telling you what's best for your long
term future and your short term financial future.
Take a look at the clip.
Figure out what you like, don't like about how she communicates and post your comments in the Q&amp;A section.

--- Making Your Great Stories a Part of A Great Speech ---

This is a storytelling course, not a general public speaking or presentation skills course.
But let's face it, they go together.
And if you want to be great at storytelling, typically it's because you're giving speeches, presentations.
You want to make those more effective.
This section here gives you the basics of how to integrate your stories in with everything else you're
doing when it comes to giving presentations and giving speeches.
So bear with me.
It's not all 100% related to being better at storytelling, but it is related in the sense that if you're
telling stories, you're doing it in conjunction with giving a speech and presentation.
So you need to be able to know how to integrate all of them and put them all together.
Enjoy this next section.

--- Quick Wins! Appear to Speak Without Notes, Avoid Verbal Tics, Teleprompter Trick ---

Let's hop right in.
Your time is really valuable.
I want to give you some quick wins.
Here's a way to cheat when it comes to public speaking.
And don't worry, it's completely legal and ethical.
I do it all the time.
No one in my audience ever has any idea.
Here's the tip Cheat.
Use a cheat sheet.
My this is a one hour speech.
It's written in bold font.
Large letters, two, three, four words, max.
This tells me everything I need to know because it's on a single sheet.
I don't have to pick up papers.
I don't have to stare at a PowerPoint and read people.
I'm not putting on my glasses and looking at it because it's larger font.
This way I can appear to just be talking to people throughout a presentation and I come across more
natural, relaxed, confident.
That's the first tip.
I want to give you three quick ones.
The second tip is I actually print out three copies of my notes and I place it around different parts
of the room.
That way I can have one on top of a lectern or a desk in front of the room.
There can be another table.
And when I'm bending down to pick up a glass of water for a sip, I'm glancing at my notes.
I'll even have one in the back of the room.
I can be back there.
And to everyone else it appears as though I'm just natural and relaxed and confident walking around
the room like a professional speaker.
And here's the secret I have a horrible memory.
Doesn't matter.
I have a roadmap.
Simple one page of notes.
That's the second tip.
The third tip.
The single biggest thing you can do to train like the CEOs of yesteryear who had million dollar budgets
for every aspect of marketing.
Here's your secret the cell phone.
I'm going to teach you how to use this for public speaking.
But the biggest tip of all practice, any speech, any presentation you have, just recording yourself
on video doesn't matter about the lights or shaky hand work.
Just record yourself, watch it, figure out what you like, what you don't like.
Keep practicing till you love it.
That's the single biggest tip that will really help you build confidence and be great.
Now I'm going to show you how to do this in more detail in the course.
Now, those are three quick tips.
Fourth, bonus tip.
This is how you should start off presentations.
Focus on something interesting to your audience, not about yourself.
As you may have noticed, I didn't start this course off by saying, Well, let me tell you about your
instructor today.
I'm so great and wonderful and I've written all these blah, blah, blah.
The biggest problem most people have with their speeches and why they're nervous at the beginning is
it's boring.
They're just talking about me, me, me, me.
Talk about your audience.
If you talk to them about something that's of interest to them, they'll want to learn more about you.
Final, quick bonus tip.
Try to exceed expectations.
I told you I'd give you three tips here.
Five already.
And we've just started the course.

--- You Can Fulfill Your Exact Public Speaking Goals Once You Identify Them ---

What?
Do you really want to get out of this course?
For the last 30 years, I've worked with, as I mentioned to you, thousands of people all over the
globe from six continents.
Everyone's different.
I've worked with ten year olds.
I've worked with 82 year olds, presidents of countries and administrative assistants.
Everyone's different and yet everyone's the same.
When I ask people this question, the first answer is quite often, Well, I just want to be more comfortable.
I'm nervous speaking, and I point out to them, Well, you could be a comfortable speaker and still
be awful, still be boring.
No one might remember your messages.
So what good is it to just be comfortable and they kind of look like this?
You know, you're right, TJ, You have a good point.
Maybe that's not enough.
Here's what happens when I really dig deep with my clients online and offline.
It really comes down to four specific skills they really want to build.
And that's what we're going to focus on here in this class.
The first is how do you look comfortable, confident, relaxed to your audience?
And as a part of that, how do you actually feel confident now in the short term?
You might not feel confident, but if you know how to look confident and comfortable to your audience,
that's going to reduce your stress a great deal.
So we're going to spend some time just on the body language and what do you do with your hands and all
that stuff.
The second skill is making sure people understand you, because if someone has great voice and good
eye contact and hand gestures, but you don't understand anything the person is saying, because if
jargon or speaking too quickly or too softly, no communication will take place.
The third skill, the third goal for most people is speaking so that you actually get the audience to
remember your messages.
That's the hard part.
Oh, my gosh.
Is that hard?
First thing I ask people when I'm working with them face to face, tell me the best speaker you've seen
in your field, in your industry in the last year.
Now, tell me every message you remember from that great speaker.
I can't remember anything in the last year about the last five years.
How about the last ten years?
We go around the room and quite often people say, Oh, everybody's boring in our industry.
Sometimes someone will say, Oh yeah, there was this one woman, and I remember this one idea.
Sometimes people remember two ideas, occasionally three.
Every three, four months someone will remember four ideas, and every six months someone will remember
five ideas from the best speaker they've ever seen in their life.
Sometimes.
So we're going to come back to that theme a lot in this training, in this course.
How do we get people to remember our the messages?
That's the hardest part for most people.
Why do we want them to do that So we can do the final goal, the final accomplishment anytime we speak,
influence the audience to do what we want.
When we're speaking to people, we want them to buy from us, hire us, endorse us, invest in us,
vote for us.
We're typically speaking because we want the audience to do something, whether it's one person, 100
or 10,000.
That's ultimately what we're here for.
So that's what we're going to work on.
Here's what I want to know from you.
What else do you want to get out of this course?
So I'm going to ask you right now.
I'm not going to ask you to video record yourself yet, but just type into the discussion section of
this course.
Tell us one sentence, your name, where you're from and what you want to get out of this course beyond
what I mentioned right there.
So please, it just helps everyone.
Let's go around the room right now and introduce ourselves.
Thanks.

--- Look Supremely Comfortable and Confident Every Time You Speak ---

Now we are going to proceed to the part of the course where you are going to learn how to wait a minute,
time out.
Would you want to watch someone like that on video or in real life?
My message is might have been fine, but my body language distractions, it destroys the ability to
communicate.
I know a lot of you are uncomfortable in certain circumstances.
Most of my clients say, Well, TJ, I'm really comfortable in small groups, but I get nervous in front
of large groups.
Other people say, Well, I'm perfectly fine speaking to large groups where I can't even see the people
and don't know them.
It's when I'm speaking to four colleagues, I get nervous.
Everyone's different, but I want to give you the tools you need so you know exactly how you come across.
Because as you saw at the beginning, you know, half of you are about to remove yourself from the course.
Give it a one star rating, because it doesn't matter how good the information is, if the body language
is awful.
No one's going to pay attention.
Now, there's this huge myth out there spread by a lot of, frankly, ignorant body language experts
that claims to say that 93% of communication is your body language and your voice simply not true.
You can look it up on the Internet, but body language is important if you're doing something distracting.
Think of it this way.
People always ask me what's more important?
Style or substance?
False choice.
If you want to communicate.
You always have to do both.
You always have to have good substance and a good style.
Think of it this way If you need to hire someone in your organization, I have the perfect resume.
Everything you're looking for.
But I send you a cover letter filled with misspellings, typos, poor grammar, dirty paper.
You're going to hire me?
Probably not.
On the other hand, if I have the perfect cover letter for you, everything you want to hear.
Nice paper, great spelling, punctuation, everything's perfect.
But then you look at my resume.
I have no relevant experience to your field.
In fact, I've never had any job other than two weeks as a lifeguard.
Are you going to hire me?
Probably not.
In either case, it's either the style or the substance that is going to destroy my ability to get that
job to communicate with you on what I want to do, get a job.
So remember, it's never just about style.
It's never just about substance.
You have to have both.
Now, later on in this this whole course, I've got an entire course just on body language for public
speaking, so you can always get more in depth.
But here's the big picture.
When you're speaking, you need to move.
Your head needs to move.
Your face needs to move, Your body needs to move.
And yes, your hands need to move.
One of the biggest myths out there is that somehow it's wrong to move your hands.
You'll be wildly distracting.
Well, yeah.
If I did this the whole time, it would be.
But I've worked with thousands of people all over the globe for years.
I've never yet had anyone who moved their hands so much.
It was distracting.
Yet every week, sometimes every day in a week, I have people who do this.
They're grabbing papers or they're holding a lectern.
They look stiff, scared, nervous, frozen and uncomfortable.
What is it, little bunny rabbit do when it sees you and it's afraid.
It's afraid you're going to eat it.
It freezes.
Well, that's what human beings do as well.
When they're scared and nervous, they tighten up their body.
And your audience can see that.
Your audience can perceive that.
Let me tell you a little trick I play on my clients in real life.
They come in, I ask them to stand up and speak.
They speak.
And nine times out of ten, once I turn the camera on, on the bright lights and I say go.
They visibly tense up their bodies.
Just stop moving.
And maybe they still move a little, but it's 50% less than normal.
Their face becomes more serious and then we'll watch the video in a moment.
But before that, when they're finished, I say, okay, great, thanks.
I turn the light off of my camera.
I drop the mic on the floor.
I sit back, but the camera is still rolling.
And I say to them, So how did that feel?
And the vast majority of the time they say, Oh, that was awful.
I didn't like that.
I wasn't comfortable.
So then we watch the first video and I'll ask them, What did you like?
What did you not like?
Well, I just seemed nervous.
I seem uncomfortable.
I seem tense.
And then I ask, Would you like to see somebody better than you?
Someone much more confident, comfortable, relaxed.
They say.
Sure.
They think I'm going to show them some international celebrity, a prime minister from Europe or South
America or a TV star, well known.
And instead I just pushed the video of where they were speaking and they didn't.
Realize they were on camera and they see now their face is moving, their eyebrows are moving, their
body moves front and back.
Their hands are moving.
Here's the real secret When it comes to body language, you don't need to learn how to act.
When you're giving a speech.
You need to learn how to stop acting.
The problem most people have when they're giving a speech, a presentation, a talk, and it hits some
threshold, taking them out of their comfort zone.
You may be comfortable talking to one person because you talk to that one person every day, but now
you're speaking to ten people and you don't know all of them, or one of them is your boss.
Maybe you're comfortable speaking to ten people, but now you've got to speak to 100 people or a thousand.
When people go out of their comfort zone.
They start to act natural.
And the natural thing to do is to be scared when we're scared.
We tense our body.
Our hands stop moving.
Our body stops moving, our arms stop moving.
Our face becomes less expressive.
And that makes us look and sound scared and bored and boring.
So the secret, as I mentioned, is not learning how to act for the stage.
It's learning how to stop acting, stop acting scared.
Now, it's not enough for me to say, well, just act natural.
Again, it's natural to be scared if you're in a situation where you're uncomfortable.
So I get it.
I'm sympathetic to you.
We've all been there.
I've been there.
The key is we have to act the way we do when we're just completely comfortable, confident and relaxed.
The best speakers in the world, frankly, speak the very same, whether they're talking to one person
or 100 or 10 million, they don't change.
So if you want a role model for yourself when it comes to your body language, you just need to speak
the way you normally do when you're completely comfortable, relaxed and you're talking with one friend
about your favorite sporting event or the Olympics and you're in a completely relaxed environment.
That's the body language you need when you're speaking that will serve you well.
The vast majority of the time.
And that's why you need to practice on video.
And you may even want to do what I do in my own training.
Ask a colleague or a friend or family member to actually record you sometime when you're not aware of
it and play it back and look at it.
You'll be surprised.
I'll have people tell me, Oh, TJ, I never moved my hands when I speak.
I couldn't possibly do that.
And they're moving their hands the whole time.
I'll just record them and play it back so we can go into all kinds of minutia as it relates to body
language.
But far and away, the most important thing is don't act scared and frozen and stiff and move.
So that's what I want you to do.
Now, I'm not going to ask you to post the video yet.
I don't want to scare you off.
I will be doing that later.
But what I would ask is just stand up or sit down, pull your cell phone out and just practice talking
about something that relates to what you do in business or professional life or civic life.
Just record yourself speaking and then watch it without any audio.
And tell me what you think.
So again, you don't have to post the video here in the discussion section, but I do want you to do
it.
Privacy of your own home or office.
Record yourself speaking and then just watch it.
Be careful, though.
If you do it the way you normally speak, your head's going to move.
That's a good thing.
You'll see your hands moving.
That's a good thing.
You want to see movement.
If all you see is you're going to look like a hostage video.
No one wants to listen to someone give a business or civic presentation or speech if they look like
they're in a hostage video.
So do that.
Now, I want to make this really easy, not threatening at all.
You're going to be tempted to just click to the next video lecture.
I'm begging you.
You want to get the most out of this course, please.
It can be 20s long speak.
Ideally, put your cell phone on a shelf or a wall or use a webcam.
So you can free up both hands.
Just speak about something, watch it without the audio, Figure out what you like, don't like, and
post a sentence or two summary right here in the discussion.

--- Use the Eye Contact Tricks of the Masters ---

I want to give you two advanced tips.
Although anyone can do them, most people don't.
These are specific to the body language that we're talking about here.
I notice that some of you didn't do the exercise.
That's okay.
But I will be asking you again and again throughout this course to practice on video.
Watch.
Share what you're experiencing, what you like and don't like.
So let's hop right into an advanced tip on body language that will solve a lot of other problems.
And that is what do you look at if you're a little scared or nervous?
The tendency is to look down at your notes and that way you can't see anyone looking at you.
The problem with that is now you look scared, nervous, unprofessional, and everyone's feeling sorry
for you.
You don't want sympathy from your audience.
You want them focused on the ideas you're giving them that are interesting, useful and helpful.
The bottom 1% of speakers are typically staring at notes, or they're reading the bullet points on a
PowerPoint slide or they're looking straight out at.
The mirror or a clock on the wall.
Or maybe they're just looking at one friendly face on the first row.
The problem everyone else feels ignored.
You have a relationship with your audience.
It's like any other relationship.
It can be like going on a date.
If you're on a date and the person is staring at their cell phone the whole time, how do you feel?
Do you like that person?
You have to give some contact, some eye contact and attention to your audience.
So I want to give you some more tips.
So the bottom 1%, you clearly don't want to do the next group of people.
This is probably about 98.9% of speakers.
They're doing some version of the windshield wiper.
They're looking at the audience the whole time, but they're never looking at any one person.
It's imagine a windshield wiper or a water sprinkler.
So when you're in the audience, you see the person up there, but they're just addressing the whole
room.
All right, class, today we're going to blah, blah, blah.
And you feel anonymous when you're in the audience and someone is looking at you like that because they're
just looking at the whole room.
Everyone, it's too quick.
It's not what the top speakers do.
Do you want to know what the really best speakers do?
They'll pick one person in the audience and they'll look at that person and talk for just a couple sentences.
One full thought, and then they'll go to another person in the audience and look at that person for
a full thought.
Only a few seconds.
Here's the difference.
When you're really looking at someone, that person feels it.
They feel you looking at them.
They feel you giving them attention, and it makes them pay more attention.
It makes them really listen to you, concentrate more and you will appear to be supremely confident
because now it's obvious you're not lost in thought.
You're not staring at notes.
Here's the key.
You're not just staring at one person for five minutes.
It's just a thought, a sentence or two.
So it's three, four, maybe five seconds at the most.
What does that mean?
If you're giving a presentation to a group in your office, clients, customers, prospects and you're
talking for 15 minutes and there are 30 people in the room, it means you can give every single person
individualized eye contact many times because, again, we're only talking about five seconds or so.
This does a lot of things.
It just makes you appear supremely confident.
So if I'm looking over here at this person, to the people over here, I at least look composed and
confident because I'm not sort of doing this thing which makes speakers look nervous and uncomfortable.
Here's the advanced tip.
You may not need to use this anytime soon, but it's here for you when you need it.
If you're speaking on stage at a large group, let's say a convention for your industry, you may have
bright lights in your face and it's dark in the audience.
You can't even see your audience members.
This trick will still work.
Just focus one spot for that full thought.
A couple of sentences.
20 people in that whole area will feel like, Wow, he really spoke to me.
Wow.
She was really talking to us.
And then you just pick different points throughout the room and you hold the gaze.
The fact that you can't see anyone doesn't matter.
They will feel like you're looking right at them.
You're connecting with them.
And when you're doing that, it means you're less likely to do all sorts of other things of staring,
looking down, freezing up, because you're looking at them.
That is absolutely key.
Here's the other thing about this.
When you're looking at one person, it actually calms you down.
You feel more relaxed and comfortable because now you're just talking to one person.
Well, we've all done that since we were two, three, four years old.
That makes it really easy for you throughout this course, I'm going to give you more and more tips
of things that will make life easy for you so you don't have to be in the middle of the presentation.
Well, let me get my glasses on and see where we're going here.
No, you don't want that.
The second sort of advanced tip, it's easy to do.
It doesn't require any advanced skill or training when you're starting a presentation, the very first
word out of your mouth, just have your hands move, sort of prime the pump because if you're scared
and nervous and that's normal, the normal thing is freeze your hands or hold your hands.
So intentionally, just for the first 15 seconds or so, force your hands to move and gesture.
It may even feel awkward, but you'll look so much more comfortable than all the other speakers out
there who start off holding paper, holding a lectern, holding remote control.
Now, I'm holding a remote control today just to turn the camera on and off.
But most of the time when you're speaking, don't hold pencils, don't hold anything else.
Keep your hands as free as possible.

--- Learn to Like and Even Love the Sound of Your Own Voice ---

I realize you might not like the sound of your own voice.
Most people don't.
I'm not going to ask you to listen to your voice yet, but I am going to ask you just to practice one
more time talking about anything and record yourself.
Preferably if you can have a friend, family member or colleague, record it with your own cell phone
five, six feet away.
Even better.
And then watch yourself.
The single biggest factor in you becoming a great speaker and really advancing has nothing to do with
the quality of your voice, the ums, the US, your vocabulary or how smart you are.
The single biggest determinant in my experience, your willingness to practice on video.
The ultimate test is can you watch yourself giving a presentation and listen to it and really love every
aspect of the style and substance?
I'm not going to ask you to post the video yet, but I am going to ask you just to practice one more
time recording yourself and then just watch without the sound.
Write your notes, anything you like don't like in the discussion section.
If you have a particular problem or concern about what to do with your feet or you feel like your hands
are moving too much, post it there and I'll address it directly.

--- Starting Your Speech At Exactly the Right Spot ---

So hope you're now feeling more comfortable with how you look when you're presenting.
But as I mentioned, that's just the first step on our journey.
We're trying to communicate here.
What is communication?
It's not just words coming out of your mouth.
Someone else has to receive those words.
They have to hear those words.
They have to understand those words and they have to remember them before there's even a chance of them
acting.
So let's start off with the basics.
What is square one?
You've got to give a presentation at work next week, a talk, a briefing, perhaps a keynote to your
industry, or maybe you're just talking to your boss about what you've done in the last month.
What's the starting point?
For most people, the starting point is sort of running around gathering facts, gathering data, getting
a wheelbarrow and trying to assimilate as many facts and data points as possible, and doing that,
working hard, staying up late, typing bullet points on PowerPoint, time out.
That is not your starting point when it comes to any presentation talk briefing you're giving.
And by the way, throughout this course, I'm going to use terms like speech, presentation, talk,
briefing interchangeably.
I really just mean any time you're talking to someone and it's not just about the sports or entertainment
or shooting the breeze, you're trying to convey something important to you and possibly influence them.
So it's not enough to just give out stuff.
You've got to actually have an impact.
That's why it's critically important that your first step is to know what your own goal is.
What is it you want to have happen?
So what I want you to do before any speech, before any presentation you ever give, is to ask yourself,
What is it I want my audience to do?
Be able to sum that up in one sentence.
Do you want them to hire you?
Do you want them to endorse you?
Do you want them to approve a budget?
Do you want their vote for the next election?
That is your starting point.
Sometimes it can be.
Generally, I just don't want to be fired.
I want my boss to think I'm working hard still.
What is the one thing you want your boss to be thinking about as the reason for why you shouldn't be
fired?
So I need you to have that clarity.
Because once you nail that down, it makes everything else you do in the speech preparation infinitely
easier, more efficient, more streamlined.
Remember, the people you're speaking to do not have to know everything you know about your job or what
you do.
If they did, they'd have your job already.
So very rarely is it your job when you're giving a presentation to tell people everything you know about
everything you've done.
So here's the homework assignment right now.
Again, one sentence.
I'm not asking you to write 5000 words for me, and I'm not asking you to put it in a video yet.
I want you just to write down one sentence, ten words or less.
What is the one thing you want your audience to do after you've given your presentation?
And if you don't have any upcoming presentations, just pick something you can relate to that you theoretically
could.
If you are in business and you raise money from investors, think about just one pitch to an investor.
If you're a school student and you have a summer job teaching people canoeing, think about how you
want people to do that One thing, whether it's the j stroke or not, stand up and fall over.
Think about what is it that you want your audience to do.
So I want you to write that down in the discussion section right now, and that will give you real clarity.
It'll help so much.
If you want to go on vacation, it's nice to know you want to end up in Paris or in Orlando or in Tokyo.
You don't want to just get in a car and drive with your whole family.
Typically, if you're planning on a nice week vacation, you need a destination.
That's what we have to nail down right now.
Please do that before advancing to the next lecture.

--- Become a Five for Five 100% Speaking Success ---

I want to make your life easy.
I actually want to save you time, not give you hour upon hour upon hour of extra due diligence for
every single presentation.
So here's my recommendation.
You've already isolated in one sentence what it is you want your audience to do, whether they're customers,
clients, prospects, colleagues, other people in your industry.
Now, I need you to just brainstorm on messages that are important to you and that you think will motivate
your audience to do what you want.
Don't worry about spelling.
Don't worry about complete sentences.
Don't worry about paragraphs.
Don't worry about what's legal.
Don't worry about any other kind of restrictions.
Just brainstorm and whether you want to just get a fresh pad and pen or brainstorm on your laptop or
it doesn't matter.
I just want you to free up your mind and just start jotting things down.
Here's the catch, though.
I need you to truly isolate one idea at a time.
If you have more than 10 or 12 words, you're probably stringing together a couple of ideas.
If it's a whole paragraph, that's 4 or 5 ideas.
I need you to isolate one idea at a time and let's see how many you have.
Don't limit yourself.
Free up your brain.
You may come up with five.
You may come up with ten, 20, 30, 50, 100.
The sky's the limit.
But here's the thing.
At some point you got to put an end to brainstorming and say, No more new messages for this presentation.
For this speech, we're closing the floor for nominations of new ideas.
Now, what you've got to do is go back and look at every one of your ideas.
Don't worry about order contacts.
Don't worry about flow, don't worry about stories.
Don't worry about the bullet points on a deck yet.
Just look at the ideas and ask yourself, Is this truly one of the most important ideas important to
me?
And is it really going to motivate my audience to take the action I want?
And I need you to put these messages in priority from least important to most important.
And then anything that doesn't make the top five throw them away or determine that you're going to give
people a PDF or a book and hand it out to them later.
Kind of like what I'm doing in this course.
I'm not going to spend a lot of time on how to use a teleprompter in the core first 90 minutes of this
course.
But for those who want it, there's a chapter in one of the books at the end.
There's also part of the course on Teleprompter in this as well.
So it's there, but it's not a part of my core material to you because it's, in my judgment, not the
most important thing for you to know if you're trying to improve your basic public speaking skills.
So put it in priority.
This is hard.
The easy thing is just to give people everything.
So much of being an effective presenter, a good public speaker, frankly, has nothing to do with the
quality of your voice or your eye contact or your gestures or how funny you are or good looking or any
of that.
So much of being an effective presenter.
Is simply about using your judgment.
Before you ever stand up to speak.
Great speakers use judgment and they simply eliminate the stuff that isn't critically important to their
audience.
They eliminate unnecessary messages.
Mark Twain once said A lot of other famous writers have been quoted saying this as well.
I'm sorry I wrote you a long letter.
I didn't have time to write you a short letter.
It actually requires more time, more intellect, more thought and judgment to narrow things down to
five ideas than it does to just tell people everything you know.
Why do I say five?
Because I actually test audiences all over the world constantly.
Again, this is all I do is public speaking, training and media training.
I've never found any audience of business people or any other field.
Remember more than a handful of ideas from the best speaker to they've ever seen.
So don't be greedy.
I understand you can tell people ten, 20, 30, 50 ideas about what you do, what your passion is,
what your business is.
Guess what?
Nobody cares about you.
This speech isn't about you.
It's about the audience.
What are they going to take away?
What are they going to remember?
What's going to be useful to them?
What are they going to be able to act on?
So much of being a good speaker is about simply not being selfish and realizing it's not about me.
It's about my audience.
How can I do everything from the standpoint of helping the audience?
That doesn't mean tell them just what they want to hear.
You may have some unpleasant things to tell people, but you've got to package those messages in a way
that is digestible.
The number one problem every one of my clients has in every industry, in every continent.
It's not the ums and ahs.
It's not the hands shaking.
The number one problem giving way too many messages in every speech.
If you can solve this problem, you're going to be way, way ahead of the crowd.
And you can say, well, a five is too few.
I've got to do seven.
You can do as many as you want.
But here's the thing.
As we'll talk about later in this course test, if you can get your audience to remember 7 to 10 ideas,
be my guest.
I've never seen it done.
But if you can test it and you have evidence, it works, do it.
But until then, I just want to give you the basic principles that I think will help most people most
of the time, and that is narrowing your messages down to just a handful.

--- A Trick 1000 Times More Effective Than Practicing In Front of A Mirror ---

Did you narrow your messages down to your top five?
I hope so, because what I'm going to ask you to do now is to pull out your cell phone and just say
it out loud.
Don't worry about it being perfect.
Don't worry about it.
Having a fascinating, engaging opening or stories.
Let's just talk out our five messages and see how they sound.
Sometimes you'll go to all this effort of brainstorming messages.
You type them up, they look fine on a screen or a piece of paper, but just say them out loud and you
realize one of the messages is completely boring and uninteresting to everyone.
Scratch it off.
So I'm not going to ask you to post the video, the URL here in the discussion yet, but I do want you
to record it and listen to it and watch it.
I understand you might not like your voice yet.
You'll get used to your voice.
That really solves.
The problem for most people is just getting used to the sound of their own voice.
So do that.
I would like you to write down in the discussion section of this course what your top five messages
are and remind me and everyone else, what is the one thing you're trying to get people to do and then
write down what your five messages are?
This really helps people, even if no one else looks at it, and I am going to look at it to write it
down, to have that clarity in your mind.
As you're preparing your speech, practicing it, giving it makes it so much more effective for you
and the audience.
So I want you to do that now.
Now, if you want even more information on all the things to think about in messaging, I have some
advanced classes here further down, this is what you really need to know that's most important.
But with anything we cover in this course in the first 90 minutes or so, there is a lot more in depth
later on in the course with some of the advanced courses, the frequently asked Questions section.
And don't forget, you can always just type in a message directly to me or in the discussion with any
specific question you have.
And if I don't already have a video on it in this course, I'll make a new one for you that will be
posted on the YouTube channel that corresponds to this course.
So don't forget that option.
I am here for you.

--- Every Great Speaker Uses These...Every Awful Speaker Avoids These ---

If you show me a great speaker, I'll show you somebody who's had some awful speeches, awful days.
Things were nothing worked, just fell flat or got booed.
Now, I've had some successful speaking days and I've had standing ovations.
And that's nice and wonderful, but I've had some lousy days of speaking and presenting to live audiences
and the media.
I'll never forget my worst speaking opportunity ever.
About a quarter of a century ago, I was on a talk radio show in South Florida in the United States.
It was political season, and I walked into the station in the studio.
I remember sitting in a really low seat.
The host was this high seat looking down at me.
We're talking about politics.
And I said, Mr. K, what I really think before I could say anything else, he pulls the microphone
out of my hand, says, Mr. Walker, I have more respect for a Ku Klux Klansman than I do for you.
I was a bit shocked.
I hadn't said anything that provocative, but at this point I'm already a public speaking coach and
media training coach and I already have confidence.
So I think I'm really tough.
So I'm now pulling on the microphone.
He's pulled the mic out, I'm pulling it out.
And I said, Yeah, but Mr. K, what I really think before I could say anything else.
He reaches under the table, the console pulls out a gun.
Now let's talk radio.
In South Florida.
There's palm trees outside.
No one can see this.
Now, do you see my point, Mr. Walker?
You know what I said at that moment with my silvery tongue, with all my oratorical experience.
Not much of anything.
I see your point.
Not my best moment speaking.
In fact, this guy was really theatrical.
So he then says to his producer, Call the police.
Get this guy out of here.
Remove this guy immediately.
And I'm pushed out the studio.
Not my greatest speaking event ever.
In fact, I had some friends listening to that.
They recorded it and they would replay the audio of that radio show for years anytime I came over their
house.
It was awful.
I did a horrible job.
But you know what?
I went back to that station.
Now I stayed away from that host.
I still think he's crazy, but I went back to that station and I actually co-hosted other shows.
I didn't let one bad speaking opportunity, one bad media experience destroy my self-confidence.
I'll never do that again.
I love speaking.
I love helping other people speak and I just learn from it.
And I went back to it.
And after a while everybody forgets it because there's so many other speeches, presentations, media
interviews.
I've probably done 5000 network TV and radio interviews since then, so no one really remembers that.
That's the key.
If you have a bad speaking opportunity, you'll learn from it.
You just do more and more typically, no one will remember the bad ones.
What did I just do there?
I told a story.
Why did I do that?
I just wanted to make the point that everybody can make bad speeches.
And the real lesson is you got to learn from them to get better.
I could have said that in five seconds, but if I said it in five seconds, it's much less memorable.
The biggest difference between great speakers in the world and everybody else, bad speakers, average
speakers.
The biggest difference is not the quality of the voice or the hand gestures or the eye contact or how
expensive the clothes are.
The single biggest difference between great speakers and everybody else stories, great speakers illustrate
every important point with a story.
And you can say, well, I don't have any stories.
Yes, you do.
All human beings have stories.
It doesn't have to be as dramatic as someone pulling a gun on you.
The most important thing is it's true.
And it relates a conversation you had with someone.
By the way, my story was true.
That actually did happen.
Is it a good story?
Is it going to win a Pulitzer Prize?
No.
But does it work?
Yes.
My clients remember, I have sometimes people come up to me ten years after I've seen them the first
time in a training and they say, hey, T.J., had any guns pulled on you lately?
They remember it.
That's how I know it works.
And they get the point.
The point, of course, is not that I am subject to guns being pulled on me all the time.
The point is, everybody can be awful or bad one day.
You just have to learn from it.
So what are the elements of a story?
I try to incorporate them right there.
There is a setting.
I was in a talk radio station in South Florida.
Whether you've ever been one in or not, you have an image in your brain.
The second thing there is a character.
There's me and this talk show host.
The third.
There's a little bit of dialogue.
What he said to me, what I said back forth, there is a problem.
There's a gun pulled on me.
Fifth, there's an emotional component.
How did I feel?
I felt scared.
Sixth, there was some resolution meaning to it.
Well, I got out alive and I actually went back to the station.
So those are the elements of a story.
And you have stories happen to you all the time.
People ask me all the time, Well, TJ, can I just make up a story?
Well, you could, but it's really hard.
Again, I want you to be, in a sense, lazy.
That was a really easy story for me to tell because I'm just reliving an actual experience.
And that's going to be easiest for you most of the time.
It doesn't have to be wildly dramatic.
All it has to do is involve a conversation you had with a real person about a real problem, how you
felt about it, how it was resolved.
That's all it is.
And you have to ask yourself if here's one of my important messages.
If I've never had a single conversation with anyone about this issue, maybe it's not really an important
message.
So that's one of the tests I have for you.
You can't think of a single story to flesh out a key point.
It's probably not a very important point.
Remember, your story setting can simply be you're sitting in your office, in your cubicle.
You pick up the phone and you talk to the guy or the woman two floors down about a problem with this
customer.
How did you feel?
How was it resolved?
This feels hard.
I understand that this feels difficult.
It's actually the easiest thing in the world.
Human beings are hard wired to communicate by telling stories.
So much of what makes public speaking difficult is we're trying to do something very abnormal, listing
lots of facts, bullet points in an abstract way.
Think of it this way If you go in Monday morning to the office or Sunday morning, if that's the first
day of your work week and someone says, How was your weekend?
You don't typically say, Well, I woke up at 6 a.m. Saturday morning at 602.
I went to the kitchen at 603.
I started fixing coffee at 604.
I went and opened the bread.
That would be really hard to list every single thing you've done the whole weekend.
And yet that's how a lot of people give speeches listing every single fact in some logical order.
Instead, someone asks you, How was your weekend?
You might say something like, Oh, it was fantastic.
My family loved watching the Olympics.
The ice skater did you see you hop right into a story involving a setting, how you felt, who was involved?
We do that instinctively in human conversation.
What great speakers realize is that when you're giving a so called formal speech, formal presentation,
talk briefing.
You don't want to throw away the stories.
That's the part you want to keep.
You don't want to give people a boring data dump so you can ignore half, 95%, 99% of what I say in
this whole course.
If you illustrate every key point in your presentation with an interesting, memorable story, you're
going to be the best speaker anyone in your audience has seen that day, that week, that month, maybe
ever.

--- Professional Analysis Of Your Stories Now ---

Quick assignment for you.
I want you to pick just one message from the presentation you're working on for this course.
Now think of one story that makes this message come alive more interesting, more memorable.
Resonate.
I want you to practice it on video.
Don't worry about the lighting and the camera angle or if you're shaky camera work.
Just record it so you can see it.
Look at it, figure out what you like, what you don't like.
Is it making sense?
Redo it a few times until you're comfortable.
It's the best you can do.
Then I want you to upload it to either YouTube or Facebook or any video file sharing service and then
post it right here in the discussion.
Let's take a look at I'll look at it.
I'll give you my professional critique.
Cost you nothing.
You've already paid for it.
With the admission into this course.
Most of you are not going to want to do that.
That's okay.
I'll still love you.
But for those of you who really want to get the most out of this course, the best return on your investment,
that's the way to do it.
So please don't just have autoplay on.
Go to the next video.
Please do this practice now.
Not for my benefit, but for yours.

--- Give Life to Ideas With Your PowerPoint, Not Death ---

PowerPoint, you'll hear people trash, PowerPoint, attack PowerPoint.
Talk about death by PowerPoint.
I'm not here to attack PowerPoint.
Some of my best friends are PowerPoint.
I use PowerPoint all the time.
But let's face it, most PowerPoint is awful.
It puts everybody to sleep because it is just a boring data dump.
I want to give you a few tips here.
This is a quick summary of what's most important to PowerPoint.
If you follow these basic precepts, your PowerPoint presentation will be the best anyone in your company
has seen, probably ever.
But if you want a lot more details on PowerPoint below, further on in this course, there's a whole
sub course just on PowerPoint.
For starters, realize the PowerPoint slides are for your audience.
They're not for you.
If you just have a bunch of words and bullet points for you to remember what to say.
As we talked about in the very first video in this whole course, just use a good old fashioned piece
of paper.
Don't use that slide for your audience.
Be honest now.
Do you like it if someone reads to you?
I ask audiences all over the world that question.
And unanimously everybody says, Oh gosh, I hate that someone starts reading bullet points to me.
I got the perfect solution.
It's called checking Facebook, checking my email.
That's the best solution to that.
So we don't want to give people an option for leaving us.
They might not leave the room, but mentally and emotionally they've left the room, so we don't want
to do that.
The slides are for your audience, not for you.
Here are the basics.
One idea per slide.
Use images, not text.
Some of you say, Okay, TJ, so I hear you.
What you're really saying is the fewer words, the better.
No more than three bullet points.
Hit rewind a second because that is not what I said.
People think I say that.
I've never said that.
If you want to use PowerPoint effectively, the most effective way is one idea per slide, one image
per slide.
Don't use any text.
Let me say that again, because some of you are doing is this guy crazy?
He couldn't have possibly said that.
What I'm saying is if you want PowerPoint to actually work and be effective when you're standing up
giving a presentation to people live, it's different if you're just emailing them a deck or it's some
kind of a webinar.
But if you're standing up and talking to people.
My recommendation do not put a single word of text on a slot.
Well, but TJ, our corporate culture, we have a problem.
Frankly, I don't care about your culture, your corporate culture, but you know who else doesn't?
The people in your audience listening to you.
So it's not about me and my preference, but it's also not about your corporate structure and best practices.
It's about what actually works on your audience.
So here's the test.
When it comes to PowerPoint, does the slide you have actually help your audience understand the message
more than you just saying it?
And does the slide actually help your audience remember your message more than you just saying?
And if it doesn't do both of those things, it's not helping you.
I understand that's not how most people in your organization use PowerPoint.
This course is about how to be great and to do it the most effective way, not how to just go with the
flow and be awful and mediocre the way others are.
So that's my recommendation.
Now, here's another simple, easy cheat that's going to dramatically help you help your audience boost
your reputation as a speaker.
Just have two PowerPoints, have one that you're projecting that has one image per slide.
Have another one with lots and lots of text.
Bullet points.
Complexity.
Email it to people.
Hand it out to people.
I've got 4 or 5 books at the end of this course I'm going to give you, but I'm not standing here reading
bullet points of bullet points going across the screen because that would be boring.
But if you want to read the five books, it's all there for you.
If you don't want to, you're not bothered by it.
You don't have to open them up or read them at all.
So that's the easiest way.
Just just have two separate power points.
The traditional one, more and more data, the better, more.
Make it a thousand pages.
I'm giving you a thousand pages.
But when you're presenting, be highly selective.
Think of some of the most effective presenters in the whole world.
In in the corporate world, for example, most people would say Steve Jobs, the founder and former
CEO of Apple, when he wanted to unveil a new, exciting product.
What did he do?
He didn't typically put up slides with lots and lots of bullet points and text.
When he was unveiling the the iPhone, what did he do?
He said, you know what this is?
And he put up a picture of an iPod and he said, you know what this is?
And he put up a picture of an old fashioned traditional flip phone.
Why are we here today?
Brought the images together into a picture of an iPhone.
Everyone instantly understood what it did, what it was about, what the product was, and it generated
excitement.
That is the most effective way to use PowerPoint.
And it doesn't require money.
You don't have to have the marketing budget of an Apple.
You just have to have a mindset that you're going to create slides for your audience, not for you.
It's very simple to go on Google and type in a word, click images, find something rights free that
you can use in your presentation.
So I understand that isn't how most people create PowerPoints in your organization, but if you want
to know the most effective way, that is how to do it.
Again, there's a lot more information in the PowerPoint course below if you want to go even deeper
to PowerPoint.
But if you follow those basics, you're going to be better than pretty much anyone your audience is
seen.
The ultimate test, of course, is test your audience.
After you have a PowerPoint presentation, you're going to give one to, let's say, 30 important clients
Thursday.
Get a couple of colleagues together Tuesday at lunch.
Give them your PowerPoint presentation when you're done.
Ask them what slides they remember, what was on it, what was the point?
Any slide they remember and they remember your point.
Congratulations.
You have evidence.
It works.
Keep the slide.
Use it on Thursday.
But if your audience can't remember the slide or they can't remember the message, you now have empirical
evidence that slide is completely worthless.
Take that slide.
Tear it up and throw it in the trash can.

--- Use 1 Idea to Make Your Slides #1 ---

The human brain is very visual in nature.
That's why it's easier to remember someone's face than how they spell their name on a business card.
That's part of the appeal of PowerPoint when you use it effectively is you're using images.
But remember, that's only one tool.
The PowerPoint slide.
You can use good old fashioned props things in real life.
So, for example, to use the Steve Jobs example again, when he introduced a new ultra thin laptop,
he didn't just put up a slide and put up the specs eight millimetres wide.
He didn't put up a slide at all.
He said, How thin is this new laptop?
He walked over to a table, picked up an envelope and pulled the laptop right out of the envelope and
said, It's this thin.
That whole thing cost about $0.50 for the cost of an envelope and yet it made such a powerful, powerful
impression.
It made people excited about the product.
It made them think, wow, that's going to be so much lighter, thinner, cooler to have than some big,
clunky laptop I've been used to.
Again, this is a company that had an unlimited marketing budget.
He could have had his team spend six months and hire every kind of Hollywood director for every kind
of fancy video to show this new product.
It was a 50 cent envelope that demonstrated how thin it was.
And a simple prop.
It worked even though he was in front of thousands.
So always ask yourself, is there some tool you can use to make your idea come alive and resonate with
people?
So, for example, sometimes corporations and governments will call me.
They'll want a proposal about how I can do public speaking training for their leaders, sometimes one
on one, sometimes group.
And my big selling pitch is frankly, that I don't just show up for a day and get people on camera.
I have a whole toolkit of intellectual property courses, so sometimes I don't do this all the time.
Sometimes I feel like it might be cheesy, but I'll actually remind them.
I'll say, Look, I have an extensive toolkit to help you for a whole year, and in this toolkit, I've
got online trainings, I've got books, I've got videos, I've got the ability to rehearse with anyone.
I train after the day of training in live Skype video before their next speech.
If they call me or text me with any questions, I'll answer them in a personalized private video.
I'm here for you.
I've got other tools.
I'll be sending you follow up training videos every single day for the next year.
So I use this tool metaphor and I do it sometimes.
Someone might think it's cheesy.
Hey, you have to be willing to take a risk from time to time of the people who hire me if they've never
heard of me before and they talk to five other public speaking training firms, they'll often mention
that they really like the fact that I've got this whole extensive toolkit.
And it's not just a one shot day of getting there, putting people on camera.
They like the pre training, the post training, all the follow up.
So this image helps me communicate my message.
Now, in this case, it wasn't a 50 cent envelope, but this only cost me, I think, $9 off Amazon.
So you may have other props, other tools that work and you might not like that.
That's okay.
Don't use a prop if you think it's too gimmicky, if you think it's too cheesy, but if you think it
will help your audience.
And that's the real test.
Understand and remember your message, then by all means do it.

--- Passing the Ultimate Public Speaking Test With Flying Colors ---

Now we get to the single most important part of this course if you actually want to become a dramatically
better speaker.
I'm going to talk about the one thing that creates the most positive impact on your speaking skills,
the simplest thing to do.
It's also, frankly, the least popular part of the course.
I know some of you want to be able to just watch videos and learn things intellectually.
That's okay.
I'm the same way in other courses.
Sometimes I'm going to ask you to just skip this whole section because this is where I'm going to ask
you to do things and to record yourself.
If you don't want to do it, don't beat me up in the ratings.
Just go to the next part.
Believe me, there's going to be more content concepts for the rest of this course.
Then you're going to find in any other ten courses on Udemy on public speaking.
And if you have any other questions about anything else with public speaking again, you can always
message me.
I'll answer you in a video, make a new video for you and post it if it's not already on this course.
Okay.
I've gotten that out of the way.
Those of you still with me, here's what I need you to do.
I need you to come up with a simple outline.
You've already got the main thing you want people to do.
After having listened to your presentation, you brainstormed on half a dozen and really not that many,
but just five messages.
You've got that written down.
You ideally have a story now for each one of your message points, and if you want to use PowerPoint,
you don't have to.
But if you do want to, I need you to come up with an image for every one of your points.
And now I need you to actually give your presentation.
Pull out your cell phone, laptop, iPad, however you want to record yourself.
I need you to record it.
Now, here's the tricky part.
You follow this.
I guarantee you you're going to be a great speaker and the best speaker, frankly, in your organization.
You don't follow this.
And this will be an interesting course.
Pick up a tip or two.
It's not going to have a dramatic impact on your speaking skills.
So here's what I'm going to ask you to do.
Watch the video and then grade yourself.
I'm giving you a rating sheet below so you can print that out or you can use it right there in the discussion
forum.
I want you to grade yourself and I want you to figure out exactly what you like, exactly what you don't
like on every aspect of style and substance.
And then I want you to record again, do the same thing.
Figure out what you like, what you don't like.
Try to do more of what you like.
Do less of what you don't like.
Keep doing it again and again and again.
By the way, this is what people pay.
I hate to sound like I'm bragging or something, but this is what people pay me a lot of money for to
come do with them for a full day.
I typically have people speak a dozen times on video.
We record it.
We critique it.
There's very little lecturing from me in a day of private one on one, Our group, public speaking training,
it's mostly people speak, record it, figure out what we like, don't like.
We keep doing it.
The ultimate goal is not when I say you've passed the test, whether it's a live training or virtual
here.
The ultimate test is can you look at your video and say, Wow, if I can be half as good as he is,
if I can be half as good as she is, I'm going to be the star of our industry.
That's how I want to present.
And you're pointing to a video of yourself.
That's when you know.
Now you have a new habit.
That's when you know you have a skill.
That's when you know you're ready to give great presentations and legitimately be confident.
It's not some sort of fake, phony meditation.
Not that there's anything wrong with meditation, but it's not visualizing a standing ovation.
You've actually seen yourself give a great presentation on video.
Now you don't have to do an hour long speech and redo it 50 times and spend the next three weeks on
this.
You can pick, if not all five points, just one of your points and one story, but I want you to practice
it on video that might only take 60 to 90s.
Practice it on video, look at it and be objective.
Most people, if they watch themselves on video, they only want to focus on what they don't like.
I've seen people stand up, give a presentation.
Everyone else in the room thought it was fantastic, interesting, riveting, memorable, great energy.
And I'll ask the one person, What did you think?
And inevitably he'll say, Oh my God, it was awful.
I said to ums, I feel like an idiot.
I feel like a fool.
It's horrible.
Please delete the video.
Everyone else thought it was great.
So the reason I give you the checklist below, it's not that these are the only criteria you should
think of or use, but I want you to put things in perspective.
Most people, if they are objective, looking at themselves, speak on video.
They'll notice that they may be doing 25 things really well, and there's only two things they need
to focus on.
That puts things in a much better perspective.
If you realize you're already doing 25 things right and you only have to focus on two.
Psychologically, it's just much easier.
It's more relaxing.
So that's what I want you to do now.
Record yourself.
Try to figure out what works so you can do more of it.
What isn't working?
What do you not like?
What can you do less of?
Now, here's the real secret.
Here's the trick to this exercise is I need you.
After you've looked at one and you've seen things you don't like.
I need you to focus on just one thing.
You didn't like trying to improve that.
So if there are five things you didn't like, if you notice your hands were frozen and your face was
flat and you were rocking a little bit.
Don't try to fix all of those things at once.
Just focus on one thing at a time.
Now, when you're rating yourself, I have things on there like hair, clothing.
Obviously, I'm not expecting you to have a perfect head of hair.
It's not about being perfect.
It's about what works for you and your audience.
What isn't going to distract?
The beauty of my hair.
And there's very little beauty in my hair.
It's just because I don't have a lot.
I just keep it really short in the hopes of not distracting you.
So if I'm looking at a video of myself, I can obviously say, Well, I don't have a beautiful head
of hair, but ultimately that doesn't matter to my audience.
I'm not trying to be a Hollywood movie star, romantic interest.
I'm just here to give you information that's going to help you become a better speaker.
So when you're analyzing yourself your video, I need you to focus on things that you can change.
I can't change my hair like that.
Don't.
If you think you're too heavy, don't worry about that.
Your audience doesn't care.
Focus on what you can change to make yourself communicate more effectively at every aspect of style,
substance, your body, your voice, the intellectual content, the messages and the stories.
So keep doing it.
Maybe you get it right after two takes.
Well, if you only spoke for a minute and you watched for a minute, you redid it, watched it again,
that's only four minutes of your time that I'm asking for.
Is four minutes really too much?
If it could make a dramatic impact?
On the other hand, you may want to do a longer speech.
You may want to practice ten times.
15 times.
Well, but, TJ, I'm you know, I'm busy.
I'm busy.
There's always time for anything that's important when I'm working with my private clients and workshops
and seminars all over the world, this is a part of their homework.
They have to do this before they step foot into the room with me.
I was working recently with a very busy technology CEO, big company.
He has 10,000 employees all over the world reporting to him.
Busy.
I know you're busy, but he's a pretty busy guy.
He did his practice video, his speech 130 times and watched it 130 times before he felt that he was
doing his best.
And he sent it to me for a critique.
So I understand you have a lot of demands on your time.
There's always time for anything that's important.
So if it's important to you to really up your game as a speaker, that's what I need you to do.
Now.
Keep practicing on video until you think you're at the best you can possibly be.
Uploaded to YouTube, Facebook, any video file sharing service you can put it on unlisted so the whole
world doesn't have to see it.
But then post the URL of that video right here in the course, critique it, and the other students
are welcome to us.
And don't worry about the other students making fun of you.
Everybody's worried about their own stuff.
Nobody has time to make fun of you.

--- Testing Your Speech With Focus Groups For Free ---

Some of you are going to call me a hypocrite when you hear me say this, but I'm going to just be transparent
with you.
I can't stand it when people call public speaking a soft skill.
And I even have courses about soft skills here on Udemy where we talk about public speaking.
But here's where I hate it.
You call something a soft skill and it sounds like a soft little puppy.
It's warm, it's fuzzy, it's not quantifiable.
It's just something you're supposed to like and a frilly little thing.
No, there's nothing about public speaking that isn't just as quantifiable, that is hard data driven,
quantifiable as any aspect of mathematics, physics, accounting, or chemistry.
Here's what I mean by that.
All those things you can test.
You can add up your numbers.
Does it add up?
You're building a new bridge.
Does it fall down when a car drives over?
You can actually test these hard sciences.
Well, it's exactly the same with public speaking and presentation skills.
If you have a presentation to give to 30 clients or prospects or customers on Thursday tests your speech
to 2 or 3 colleagues Tuesday at lunch, ask them what do they remember?
Do they remember your key messages?
If they don't remember your messages?
You now have 100% empirical evidence that your speech is completely worthless.
I want you to take that speech you prepared, Tear it up and throw it in the trash can.
It does not work.
If you tested a bridge to go from two cities over a major river, you put it up and the design instantly
crumbled and five cars plunged to their death.
The people inside.
You wouldn't then say, okay, well, let's now build this bridge in real life in front of two larger
cities in a larger river.
The fact that it doesn't work well, let's just do it anyway.
No one would ever do that.
Why in the world do we think it's acceptable to give a presentation when we have no evidence it works?
Here's how you do it.
You've practiced your speech on video and you have two ways of doing this.
Send the video of your very best presentation to a couple of colleagues, maybe in a different city,
maybe in a different continent.
Don't tell them what you're going to do in advance.
Just ask them to look at it and to email you when they've looked at it.
Then call them up, call them through Skype, phone, anything else.
Don't ask them what they think of your presentation.
They'll tell you, Oh, it's great.
You're confident, you're comfortable, completely worthless advice.
Ask your colleagues.
What do they remember from your presentation?
And they might start out by saying, Well, you were very smooth and comfortable and polished.
Politely, politely say, That's not what I asked.
I want to know, what messages do you actually remember from this presentation?
Because I ask people that all the time and they say if they say something like, Well, TJ, you were
great, you were professional, you were smooth, confident, then I know my speech was a complete,
utter failure.
If people can't tell me exactly what my messages were, exactly what the stories were, exactly what
slides there were, it means I didn't communicate.
So one technique take that best video that you did in the previous exercise, which I'm confident you
did.
Just email the video to other people and ask them to take a look at it.
The other thing that's an even better way of doing this is your presentation is on Thursday.
Get a couple of colleagues together Tuesday.
Maybe you're in a shared workspace.
You can find someone who doesn't work for your company, but whose mindset, whose knowledge base is
similar to that prospect or customer you'll be speaking with.
Say, Hey, can I buy for lunch?
I'll give you a sandwich for free on me.
Then give them your presentation.
Don't tell them in advance.
You're going to be testing them.
Don't let them take notes, because chances are your real life customers and prospects you're speaking
to aren't taking notes of what you said.
Just give them your presentation.
Then, as I mentioned, ask.
Ask what they remember.
Ask every message that sticks.
Now, the good news is if they tell you messages, they remember and it's the messages you cared about
one of your initial five.
Fantastic.
Let's celebrate.
You now have empirical evidence, hard factual data that the way you are presenting that information
often works.
Keep it, keep it in the speech.
And when you're giving it, have the confidence, knowing it's not about luck today.
It's not about whether you're on today.
You already have tested, you know, you're giving your audience material that works.
Test your slides the same way the slides that work, the messages that work, the stories that work,
meaning they're actually remembered.
Keep them.
Use them.
Anything that doesn't work, throw it in the trash can.
Let's keep retooling it until we have something we know that works.
People don't like to do this.
Most people don't do this.
Your colleagues are not doing this.
Your competitors are not doing this.
But guess what?
It costs nothing but a little time.
And this is frankly, time that most people spend typing and typing more and more bullet points on a
PowerPoint slide that no one's ever going to look at.
So use your time effectively.
It will pay off for you.

--- More Evidence That Your Speech Is Working ---

Another very important place to test your speaking abilities and your speech.
Immediately after you've given your speech, your presentation, or talk.
Anytime you're talking to more than ten people, someone's likely to come up to you afterwards.
Oh, good job today.
Good presentation.
Most of us in that situation say, Well, thanks.
I appreciate it.
I was good today, wasn't I?
You may think that.
Don't stop there.
This is valuable, valuable marketing research that you could get, but you got to dig a little deeper.
Major corporations all over the world spend billions of dollars of market research.
But when you're a speaker and you're trying to improve your speaking, you can get all this market research
for free.
All you have to do is ask.
So when someone comes up to me after a presentation and says, Oh, good job today, good speech.
I always say thanks, but hey, do you mind me asking, What do you remember?
What stands out?
How would you describe this to your colleague who wasn't here today?
And really listen.
That's extraordinarily valuable focus group research and it's free.
If they're telling you the messages that were important to you, you know it worked.
If they're remembering your examples or your stories, your slides, you know, it worked.
But if it's just.
Hey, good job.
Very professional, very interesting.
Then if that's what they tell me, I know I failed completely.
If that's what they tell you, it means you failed.
Because someone can have all sorts of reasons to tell you you are great.
They may want a promotion.
They may want you to hire their kid for a summer internship.
There's all sorts of reasons.
Someone may just tell you it was fine or great.
People can lie about that, but they can't lie about what messages they remember.
If you present it in a way that wasn't memorable and they don't remember it.
So always ask, say thanks first, but then ask them What do you remember?
What stands out?
Because that is public speaking gold.

--- More Is Sometimes More When It Comes To Public Speaking ---

The best ice skaters in the world.
Ice skate every single day.
The best soccer players.
The best football players play every day, or at least half the year.
They're playing every single day for hours.
If you want to be a great speaker, one technique is to just speak more often.
The best speakers in history we quite often remember for one speech, but we forget the fact that they
were speaking constantly.
Martin Luther King Jr.
Here in the United States was credited as having given the best speech of the 20th century.
His famous I Have a Dream speech.
What everybody forgets is he gave more than 300 speeches that year alone.
I don't care who your favorite politician is in your country, chances are that person gives a speech
every single day.
Now, you might not want to be president of a country or a major civil rights leader.
That doesn't mean you can't speak regularly.
The easiest way these days is just say something on social media in a video format.
Talk about some area of expertise you have on a YouTube channel on a Facebook page.
Let's take it up a notch.
You could be speaking in your own Udemy course, if you speak often enough, regularly enough and you're
watching yourself, you get more and more confident.
Doesn't mean you're perfect, doesn't mean everybody will love you.
Some of you don't like me.
Some of you are.
That guy's got beady eyes.
I don't like his hairline.
There's nothing I can do about that.
But what I can tell you is I'm as relaxed now speaking to you as if I were talking to one friend.
And in this entire course, I've done everything live to tape.
Because when you're giving a speech, you don't get to do over.
You're in front of people.
They see it.
So I've made some little mistakes here and there.
I kept on going because I wanted to demonstrate to you how do real people actually speak in the real
world?
The problem is not our mistakes.
It's quite often our reaction to our mistakes.
There may have been 1 or 2 things where the phone rang and I stopped.
But pretty much I've done this whole course just live all the way through.
So the amount of time it takes you to watch this, that's how much time it's taken me to make this course
because I'm just talking to you.
No talent on my part, no unique skill, nothing innate.
It's not like knowing how to dunk a basketball or balance on a high beam.
It's just talking.
But if you don't do it a lot, it feels strange and weird and uncomfortable, and you'll come up with
all sorts of excuses as to why you shouldn't do it.
So my advice to you is just say yes to every speaking opportunity you have.
And if you can't travel somewhere, you can always just give a speech through live Skype video without
leaving your home.
The more you speak, the more comfortable you'll get, the better you'll get.
And it creates this positive cycle of virtue and you just get better and better and better.

--- Master the Quickest, Easiest Way to Eliminate Verbal Tics ---

I want to go ahead and give you a quick win because your time is valuable and I want to save you time
so we can solve this problem.
Here's a technique I use to get rid of us and ums and ers on my clients all over the world Presidents
of countries, billionaire fund managers, even Nobel Peace Prize winners have this problem of the verbal
tics.
Here's what I want you to do.
Go to your computer and type up whatever word it is you use a um, er, you know, like you see, whatever
it is, that word, that sound, that phrase, type it up in small and medium sized font and then print
this out on a piece of paper.
Next, I want you to get a red magic marker.
I know this sounds silly.
You're scratching your head.
Why did I get this?
This really does work.
You put a red circle around the word and a slash through it.
The international red know sign just like no left hand turn, no parking.
Now, it's no, um.
No, uh, no.
Er.
So then what you do is you cut it out and then you just tape it to your cell phone, to your watch.
If you wear a watch to your computer screen, to your iPad, anything you look at daily.
Now, don't put it on your hand or your forehead.
That's not going to help something you look at.
Here's what happens after a day when you say that verbal tic that, uh, that, um, you're still aware
of it, but you have this sort of duh Homer Simpson moment.
You're aware of it because if you're like most people, you're looking at your watch or your cell phone
dozens, if not hundreds of times a day.
So you start to get this image of the no sign around that phrase after 2 or 3 days, when you start
to say the, uh, or the, um, the image comes up, you almost catch it, but it still comes out of
your mouth.
But here's the thing.
After about a week.
When your brain is thinking about filling that sound, that empty space with the, uh, the, um, the,
uh, you know, the image pops up and you can simply hold it in and pause.
This way, you'll sound more comfortable, confident and relaxed.
Try the technique.
It really does work.

--- Now You Know Where the Tics Come From ---

So why do people say ah, um, er, you know, a lot of times in my experience, people only do it when
they're feeling uncomfortable, when they're giving a speech, a presentation, doing a media interview,
leaving a voicemail, something that takes them out of their normal conversational mode.
And what's happening is they're self-conscious and they're thinking, Uh oh, I'm everybody's looking
at me.
How do I fill up this empty space?
I don't want it to be an awkward silence.
That's when people do it.
It's important to realize you don't have to fill up the sound.
You can simply pause.
This course is going to give you even more techniques of how to do it.
Sounds easy when I say it, but I want to give you a lot more practical tips to solve this problem.

--- You Are Not Alone ---

The first thing to realize about occasional verbal tics is that everybody and I mean everybody occasionally
says, um, uh, you know, saying it once in a while isn't really a problem.
It's only when you say so many that it stands out.
It's kind of like if you send someone a cover letter and there's an extra comma after every word in
the first sentence, it's unnecessary and it will stand out as clutter.
But I do want you to put things in perspective.
Quite often in my day job, which is doing public speaking workshops and media training workshops with
leaders all over the world, I'll record someone, we'll play it back.
Everyone in the room thinks they did a fantastic job in their presentation, but the person who was
speaking is like, Oh, that's awful.
I'm so embarrassed.
It's pathetic.
I said, I'm constantly We look around.
Did anyone even notice?
No one noticed.
We played it back again.
The person said two ums in a period of 20 minutes, so it's not really a problem.
Now, you may have a problem.
I'm not trying to minimize it, but don't be too harsh on yourself.
I know some people who never ever say, uh, or um.
The problem is they're so boring with their presentations.
Nobody remembers anything they said.
I also know some of the most famous media celebrities in the world, former broadcasters like David
Letterman here in the United States, Martha Stewart, the home goddess guru.
What do those two have in common?
They say aye, aye, aye.
Aye.
Constantly.
Every 22nd segment.
And yet they both made tens, if not hundreds of millions of dollars a year talking.
So let's keep this in perspective.
It's far more important to have something interesting to say than to never, ever say or let's not fetishize
it.
Yeah, I'm going to give you more tips on how to reduce your odds and arms.
But our goal here is not perfection and never, ever saying.
And our goal is actually good communication and having the people we're speaking to have good feelings
about us.
By the way, speaking of someone who's very successful speaking, saying lots of A's and ums, I'm not
going to mention any names, but there is a wildly successful public speaking coach right here on Udemy.
He's a public speaking coach.
His courses have a lot more sales than mine and every other sentence.
A Right, right, right.
Guess what?
Nobody cares.
His students love him.

--- Hit the Pin, Not the Sand Trap ---

If you really want to reduce the ums, uhs, ers and other verbal tics, you're going to have to do
something that seems contradictory.
I need you to stop focusing on not saying us and ums.
I need you to focus on actually communicating ideas of interest to the person or people you're speaking
to.
Think of it this way.
Now, I'm not a golfer, but my golfing friends tell me if you go out on the golf course and you just
focus on not hitting in the sand trap, you're much more likely to hit the sand trap than if you focus
on pin hitting the ball into the hole.
It's exactly the same way when it comes to public speaking, giving presentations, talking to people
in uncomfortable situations, or even leaving voicemails.
You need to focus on helping the person you're speaking to.
Focus on giving them ideas that are interesting and useful.
Don't focus on Oh, I hope I don't say.
I hope I don't say Oh, focus on the ideas for your audience.

--- Don't Let the Ding A Ling Get You ---

The problem of people using us and ums ers.
Other verbal tics has been around a long time and there have been a lot of solutions and a lot of well-meaning
people and organizations.
Stop that.
Have you ever seen someone do this?
I have, and it makes it even more nerve wracking.
Someone trying to be helpful sits in the back of the room and rings a bell.
When you say, Ah, um.
This is awful.
Now.
I love the folks at Toastmasters.
It's a great organization.
I recommend my clients go to Toastmasters.
But there's one thing I really don't like and don't think is effective with Toastmasters is that in
many chapters they either ring a bell or they'll take a knife and hit a glass and a ringing sound,
and they'll count every single little.
To me, this is counterproductive.
It gets someone focusing on the arms, not delivering actual information.
When you're speaking, you want to focus on your ideas coming alive, being interesting and engaging
to the people or the person you're speaking to.
You don't want to be sitting back thinking, Oh, please, please, please don't let the Oh, I've done
it again.
So I beg you, don't count your oars and arms while you're speaking.
If you want to record it and do it after, that's fine.
Don't let anyone else do this.
Don't be aware of it as you're speaking.
When you're speaking, you need to speak.

--- Eliminating the Source of Your Speaking Discomfort Once and For All ---

Quite often when ums and ahs and ers are coming out of your mouth, it's a sign that there's a problem.
It's a sign that you're feeling uncomfortable.
Well, one of the biggest reasons for being uncomfortable is fear of not being interesting to your audience.
Fear of being boring.
Fear of not being understood.
Well, guess what?
That's a legitimate fear to have because so many people, when they give speeches, briefs, talks are,
in fact, boring.
So it makes complete sense that you're uncomfortable.
So I want us to go even deeper and go beyond the superficial causes and look at what's really causing
us a problem.
Sometimes the problem is we have a boring speech.
The solution is you need to practice your speech.
We'll talk about that more in just a moment.
Practice a speech that, you know is interesting that you know, is memorable.
That is a speech, a presentation, a talk, even a voicemail.
You personally would want to listen to that you would understand and that you would remember.
If we solve that problem, if we get you to the point where you're confident, you've got a great message,
interesting ideas that the person you're speaking to, the group you're speaking to, will find interesting,
understandable and memorable.
That's going to make you so much more relaxed and when you're relaxed.
You kind of forget to say, uh.
And um.
And er.
And, you know.

--- Appear More Confident By Using Smaller Words ---

When you're giving a speech, a presentation or briefing, especially if it's a so called formal speech,
there is the tendency to want to utilize words like utilize when instead you could simply use use.
One of the big problems many people have when they're giving a presentation and they're out of their
comfort zone.
That's when the US and ums start creeping in.
The reason it happens is people are searching for bigger words than usual.
They're thinking of that word they wrote down on a script or a PowerPoint slide.
They're trying to remember the perfect word.
Let me tell you, when you're giving a speech, a presentation or a talk, very rarely does it matter
the exact word you use.
What matters is the idea you convey and that you convey it in a comfortable, conversational, interesting,
memorable way.
So the big stumbling block for a lot of people, they're trying to remember exact phrases.
They're trying to search for that perfect word.
They can't find that word in my mom.
It's almost there.
I almost see it.
And you've destroyed the whole perception of you being comfortable and confident.
So the solution is not to spend even more time rehearsing and memorizing.
The solution is don't focus on any particular word.
Instead, focus on one idea at a time.
That way you can just use the first word that comes to you.
The first word that comes to you is usually the best word, and that word is rarely ever going to be,
uh.
Or.
Um.
Or.

--- You Will Avoid the Data Dump Blues ---

A common problem for many people is that they're perfectly fine speaking friends, family, colleagues,
one on one conversations in the office or with a boss.
But when they have to stand up to give that official briefing or that formal speech, that's when all
the ums come out.
The problem is the way they've structured their presentation.
They have way too much data.
They're trying to cover every single little fact in an abstract way, devoid of context.
Think of it this way If you bump into a colleague Monday morning and they ask, How was your weekend?
You're likely to say, Oh, it was fine.
We went to.
And then you'll talk about one example of something interesting you did.
But imagine if someone said, How was your weekend?
And you had to say, Well, at 601 on Saturday morning, I woke up at 602.
I got up and went to the bathroom.
At 603, I went and poured coffee at 604.
I mean, that would be nerve wracking.
And no one would have the US and UMS come out trying to remember sequence day part after day, part
minute by minute.
That puts too much pressure on the brain.
It also, frankly, bores your audience to death.
So one of the things that will eliminate the US and UMS coming out of your presentation is getting rid
of the boring data dump.
Instead, you need to narrow your messages down to the top five, even if you're giving an hour long
presentation, if you're just rattling off fact after fact, that's when the US and UMS are going to
come out.
It's going to make you look uncomfortable, unprofessional, and it's frankly going to bore everyone
else to death.
So narrow your messages down.
You've got a whole lot of data.
Hand it out, email it.
Don't try to remember it and say it all in front of people.

--- Never Worry About Remembering Again ---

For most people the US and UMS really come out when they're in the act of trying to remember um, oh,
what's next?
Or what do I say next?
Where is my speech here?
What's in my outline?
Or I can't quite read the teleprompter or the PowerPoint slides.
Don't put so much pressure on your memory when you're giving a presentation.
It's simply human nature.
If you're feeling a little uncomfortable and most people feel uncomfortable when they're speaking,
giving presentations, talks, even leaving a voicemail, if it's not with a close friend, the A's
and UMS come out because you're trying to remember what to say and you're trying to talk.
At the same time.
I want to make life easy for you.
Reduce the stress.
Here's the tip I want you to.
Don't tell anyone cheat.
I want you to actually cheat.
This is a technique I use all the time.
I have never been caught, by the way.
There's nothing unethical about it or illegal.
What I'm talking about is when you're giving an important speech, presentation, talk briefing, or
even just having a meeting with someone, use a cheat sheet.
Here's a single sheet of paper that I use and I just have 2 or 3 at most four words to remind me of
the point.
I use large font, typically 20 point or larger use bold lettering.
This way I don't have to pick it up.
It's on a single sheet so I'm not flipping pages.
It's large enough font so I don't have to bend over or stop and kind of fiddle with my glasses.
Oh, hang on.
Let me get my glasses.
I don't have to do any of that.
It's just very large.
I can have it right in front of me.
If I'm standing up.
It can be on a lectern, on a table.
If I'm sitting down, it can be right at the table.
This takes all the pressure off.
The more relaxed you are, the more you can simply talk to people and not think about, Oh my mama,
what am I going to say next?
I forgot.
I'm not I don't know what I'm going to say.
If you're not thinking about remembering and forgetting and what you're going to say, you can just
be relaxed and be in the moment.
And that's when you'll see the ums and ahs.
Melt away.

--- The Number 1 Tip for Eliminating Nerves ---

Now I'm going to give you my number one tip on how to eliminate the US ums verbal tics in your speeches,
presentations and talks.
This is the absolute most effective technique.
It's also the least popular technique.
So you're not going to like it.
You're going to say, Oh, I don't want to do that.
I have to tell you what it is, and you can be the judge of whether you use this technique.
The technique is any speech, any presentation, any talk.
You're about to do any important voicemail with a client or prospect.
I want you to practice what you're saying, holding up your cell phone and recording it on video.
If you hate the idea of video, then use audio, but preferably video and then watch it and listen to
it.
First of all, I want you to focus on is this interesting?
What I want to listen to me.
Let's solve that problem first.
Then and only then do I want you to count the ums and ahs.
Keep doing it until you're comfortable with how you come across and your number of oz and ums.
Remember, no one's going to remember 1 or 2 oz or ums throughout a presentation or a talk or a conversation.
They will remember if you have 20in the first 30s, so don't strive for perfection.
I do want you to focus on a number that you're comfortable with, so please do that.
Now think of any topic you want.
Anything you ever discussed in briefings, meetings, talks or conversations.
Record yourself.
You can use a cell phone, an iPad, a webcam and keep doing it.
That's the key.
It's not about doing it once and ripping yourself apart for ten hours.
Do it once and then quickly do another one.
Keep redoing it until you're comfortable with with how you come across, how fluid you are, how interesting
you are, and how few verbal tics you have.

--- A Focus Group To Make You Better ---

Am I crazy?
Are people staring at my beady eyes and making fun of me?
We all are sometimes too close to ourselves to really have an accurate, dispassionate perspective on
how we're coming across.
It may be that you do have a huge, huge problem with us and ums and ers and verbal tics, but maybe
not.
I'm not saying it's all in your head.
You're in this course, so there's some issue there.
But what I want you to do is test.
Now what you don't want to do is speak and then go up to someone and say, Tell me how bad I am.
How many us and ums.
It was really awful.
Right?
You don't want to coach someone.
What you want to do is give a presentation, give a talk, and then ask someone what do they remember
that's most important Next.
What did you like?
That's also very important.
Then ask them anything.
Stand out that you think could be improved.
If they say something like, Well, you didn't seem quite comfortable, then you want to dig and probe.
See if they'll actually tell you that they're hearing too many US ums ers you knows and likes.
Finally, if they don't mention it, ask them if they say Huh, I didn't even notice you saying.
Look, I trust you, but I trust your audience more.
They're a lot more credible than you are when it comes to how you come across.
So everybody needs outside independent feedback.
In fact, I need feedback.
I'm going to ask that from you right now.
And Udemy, if they haven't done so already, will ask you for feedback on this course.
I want to know what you think so far.
Udemy is going to ask you to rate on stars and certainly if you think it's a five star course, go ahead
and put five stars.
If you think it's lacking in any way.
Rather than leave a rating right now, I want you to send me a message right here in the Udemy system
and I'll try to make the changes right away because I want to be responsive to you.
Nobody's perfect.
I'm not perfect.
I want to make this course even better.
The other thing I'm interested in in Udemy isn't going to ask you this, but I will.
What do you remember so far?
What's been most useful about this course so far?
Please post it in the discussion section.
Thanks.

--- The Video Advantage In All Your Proposals - Quick Win! ---

ให้ฉันชนะอย่างรวดเร็วจริงๆ สิ่งที่ฉันคิดว่าจะช่วยคุณในธุรกิจของคุณตั้งแต่เริ่มต้นที่นี่
ทุกผู้มีโอกาสเป็นลูกค้าที่โทรหาฉันหรือส่งอีเมลถึงฉันสำหรับธุรกิจหลักของฉัน ซึ่งกำลังดำเนินการฝึกอบรมด้านสื่อ
การประชุมเชิงปฏิบัติการการพูดในที่สาธารณะ , การนำเสนอ, การฝึกอบรม, ทุกคนที่ติดต่อฉันได้รับวิดีโอส่วนบุคคลเช่นนี้
ซึ่งฉันพูดถึงพวกเขาด้วยชื่อ และฉันส่งมันกลับไปให้พวกเขาทันที และพวกเขาชอบมัน
พวกเขาบอกฉันเสมอ T. เจ คุณเป็นผู้ขายเพียงรายเดียวที่เราติดต่อไป
คุณเป็นบริษัทฝึกอบรมด้านสื่อเพียงแห่งเดียวที่ทำเช่นนั้น
ความจริงก็คือฉันกำลังประหยัดเวลาเพราะฉันไม่ต้องพิมพ์ซ้ำและแก้ไขเพื่อค้นหาการพิมพ์ผิดในเอกสารข้อความ
ผู้ที่มีแนวโน้มจะเป็นลูกค้าของฉันจะได้เจอฉัน
และนี่คือสิ่งที่
ใช่ มีหลักสูตรอื่นๆ กว่าพันล้านหลักสูตรบน YouTube เกี่ยวกับวิธีการแก้ไข ทำให้มันดูเนียน
ฉันไม่ได้ทำการแก้ไขใดๆ
ฉันมีรีโมทคอนโทรลที่นี่
พอพูดจบฉันก็กดหยุด
เพื่อไม่ให้ซับซ้อน ฉันกดเริ่มและพูด ฉันกดหยุดและหยุดพูด และฉันทำเสร็จแล้ว ฉันเพียงแค่ส่งอีเมลข้อเสนอนั้นไปยังผู้มีโอกาสเป็นลูกค้าโดยตรง
และพวกเขาก็ประทับใจ
พวกเขาได้ยินฉัน เห็นฉันรับรู้ถึงสิ่งที่ฉันเป็น
นี่คือเคล็ดลับประเภทต่างๆ ที่ฉันต้องการให้คุณในเรื่องนี้ เพื่อที่คุณจะได้ไม่เพียงแค่พูดถึงวิดีโอเท่านั้น
และคุณไม่ได้เพียงแค่ทำวิดีโอองค์กรที่ลื่นไหลด้วยดนตรีและเอฟเฟกต์พิเศษ รวมถึงการออกแบบและกราฟิก
มีที่สำหรับสิ่งนั้น
แต่นั่นไม่ใช่สิ่งที่หลักสูตรนี้เป็นเรื่องเกี่ยวกับ
ฉันต้องการให้คุณรู้สึกสบายใจในการใช้วิดีโอสำหรับการสื่อสารทั้งหมดของคุณ และนั่นคือสิ่งที่เราจะเรียนรู้ที่นี่
โปรดติดตามบทเรียนต่อไป

--- Hype Versus Reality - Why Most People Never Create Simple Video ---

So we've got to talk about hype versus reality.
If you look at the news media, you look at your news feeds, you look at the people talking about Facebook.
Everything is about video, video, video.
You see all these studies coming out in marketing books and magazines about how anyone under 35 will
only watch video.
And you hear Facebook saying, we're more video focused.
Yeah, a lot of people are focused on video.
There's only one problem.
Most people in the world are not comfortable speaking in front of a video camera, just doing what I'm
doing right here.
So what does that mean?
What it means is that in most organizations, when you say video, they think of the video production
house, the official communications department.
You hire a director for the day, an outside video production company, and six months later you have
some big product marketing video.
Meanwhile, about 10 billion emails, press releases, web pages and other forms of communication have
taken place over the last six months.
None of it on video.
Here's the thing Video is very powerful and it doesn't have to be the 1984 Apple commercial that got
so many awards and so much attention.
It doesn't have to be a Super Bowl commercial.
Just you talking about something you do that's important, interesting, relevant to customers, clients
and prospects can be so much more powerful than just cold text in an email or on a web page, or even
an old fashioned letter.
Someone sends that.
So that's what I want to work with you on in this course is how to communicate making simple video.
Here's the big problem.
You can build a big studio as many companies and organizations do.
You can hire videographers, you can hire and buy a lot of editing software.
Most people and most companies, whether it's a one person company or a huge, huge billion dollar corporation,
most people are still too uncomfortable speaking on a camera.
Not me.
You know, I'm not an on camera person.
I'm not a TV star.
You know, I got to wait for my hair to grow back or lose £10.
Everyone has all of these excuses.
That's what's holding people back in your own organization.
It may be what's holding you back.
Fortunately for you, that's what's holding people back in every other organization, too.
So what that means is if you do get used to communicating with simple talking head video, you're going
to really stand out.
You will be a cut above.
So that's what we're going to focus on.
And in the next lesson is how do you actually get comfortable on video?
Because until you're comfortable with it, until you're convinced you know how to look your best and
sound your best, you will do everything possible to procrastinate.
Making a video.
Believe me, I sound like you know who.
Believe me, I know corporations where they've spent $200,000 on studios, software cameras.
Nobody's ever made the first video because everyone is afraid of looking stupid or uncomfortable.
So that's what we're going to cover next.
How to really look your best on camera.

--- Mastering the Human Side Of Looking and Sounding Your Best on Video ---

Most courses on video production.
Start off with buy this camera.
Have the lighting like this.
And as I mentioned to you, there are tons of other great courses on Udemy on all the technical aspects.
This is a course on video production, but my focus is to help you with the human side of the video
production because on the one side you've got a camera, lights, microphone.
On the other side you have an actual human being.
And in my experience, that's the weakness in this whole puzzle.
That's the weakness when it comes to knowledge and resources and investment.
Now I've got an entire courses on Udemy teaching people how to look comfortable on camera.
This is going to be a brief overview and that's what I actually spent all day long doing in my in-person
media training workshops and public speaking workshops.
But I want to give you a brief overview on how to look your best on camera, and then I am going to
ask you to do an assignment, be up to you whether you want to do it.
Here's the big problem for most people when they speak on camera for the first time, they act natural.
Now, you could say, well, what's wrong with that?
Aren't you supposed to be natural?
Here's the thing.
If you're nervous and everyone's nervous, if they haven't spoken on camera a lot, they do this.
What happens is their body freezes, their face freezes their hands stop moving.
Their voice starts speaking at a consistent tone, a consistent volume.
And they look scared and nervous and uncomfortable and oh, my God, do we have to listen to this guy
any longer?
That's the big problem.
So here's what you have to do in order to become comfortable looking, confident, looking for starters,
you have to move your head.
Look at how my head is moving.
You can even hit the mute button on your computer or your cell phone and rewind this and you'll see
my head is moving a great deal.
All great communicators, when they speak, their head moves, their face moves, the eyebrows move.
So you want to make sure you have constant movement.
The next thing you want to do in order to seem lifelike, to seem natural, relaxed, is you have to
move your body.
I'm not just standing straight up like this.
My body is actually moving the whole time.
And then the final thing you want to do is, yeah, these things are moving now.
You don't necessarily see them all the time because of how this is framed for the video that you're
going to watch on your cell phone iPad.
But my hands are moving the whole time.
You may have heard.
Oh, don't move your hands.
That's unprofessional.
Wrong.
The second you freeze your hands, you typically freeze your arms, shoulders, the muscles get into
your neck and next thing you know, you have that kind of blah, blah, blah, blah.
Charlie Brown's teacher voice It's tensing up your vocal cords.
So when you move your hands, your body moves more, your vocal cords move more.
The thing you want to do in order to come across as natural and believable on camera is you need variety.
You need variety in movement, in your face, your body and your hands.
And most important, you need variety in your voice.
That means sometimes you speak a little softer, sometimes a little louder, sometimes faster, sometimes
slower.
And occasionally.
You need to pause.
By the way, all of those things never happen if you're trying to read a script.
You have a script in front of you or a teleprompter, and all of a sudden everything is leveled out
and flattened out and you become robots.
Awful.
That's why I don't recommend you try to read a script.
I don't recommend you use a teleprompter.
I think of it this way.
If you're sending a video proposal to a client or answering a frequently asked question, you don't
need a teleprompter to do that in real life.
If you were talking to the client prospect sitting in front of you.
So why should you need it if you're talking to a camera?
Just treat it like it's a human being.
And the beauty of video, other than when it's live, if you don't like it, you hit delete and you
just do it again.
Now, a lot of people will look at a video and they're hyper critical.
I understand that.
We're all human beings.
Oh, I don't want to see my face.
I don't want to.
Well, clients have to see you in real life.
Customers have to see you in real life.
You can't walk around the office or go into meetings with a bag over your head.
At least I hope not.
I assume not.
So you got to get over that.
It's not about being gorgeous and perfect.
I can look at a video of this and on the one hand, I feel confident.
I look my best and sound my best.
This is exactly how I want to come across.
But sure, I could point to the video and say, Oh my God, my hair's falling out.
I'm getting bags under my eyes, I'm getting wrinkles, I'm getting jowls.
I could pick apart all sorts of things.
And I'm not any smarter than you.
But one thing I am pretty smart about is this.
I know it doesn't really matter to you what I look like.
You didn't come to this Udemy course to find some perfect specimen of beauty.
You're not here to find a date or a spouse.
You're here to get information for you, to help you in your business and your organization and your
career.
And as long as I can deliver that at some level, you don't really care what I look like.
You've got to come to that same realization.
It's one thing if you're a supermodel, I'm assuming right now you're not.
If you are a business person and you're trying to communicate, then the focus has got to be on how
can you simply come across comfortable, confident, relaxed and talk about the things you do to help
other people and organizations.
If you do that, no one's going to care what you look like.
Now, of course, there are some things that could distract.
So if you have a really loud, colorful clothing and you're in a conservative industry that can be distracting,
you may notice I have a simple dark shirt on.
It's not pure black.
It has a lot of white in it.
So there's a little more contrast.
And I don't have anything else that's going to jump around.
No stripes, no paisleys, nothing that's going to jump around.
Other than that, I'm trying to keep it simple so that you can focus on the message for you, not what
I'm wearing or what's behind me.
So here's the homework assignment, and I'm not going to ask you to do a lot in this course.
This is really the biggest determinant, whether you're going to get a lot out of it, though, because
if you don't get comfortable with how you come across on video, you'll never make inexpensive talking
head videos for all the other things I'm going to talk about in this course.
So here's the homework assignment.
I need you to pull out your cell phone or an iPad or a webcam and record yourself talking just for one
minute about your business.
And look at it, figure out what you like, what you don't like.
If you see anything you don't like, keep redoing it until you like what you see.
Now, again, don't wait for perfection.
Don't say, Oh gosh, my hair doesn't look as good as it did 30 years ago.
Well, mine doesn't either.
And you know what?
People pay me a lot more money than they did 30 years ago when I had more hair because I give them valuable
information and insights to help their business.
So don't try to make it perfect.
Just try to keep doing it until you're comfortable.
You're coming across your very best.
Now, here's what I'll recommend.
It's up to you.
Most people aren't willing to do this, but if you're serious about this, I think you should post the
video on YouTube.
You can make it a private link or an unlisted link and then put that link in the discussion section
right here.
I will watch your video.
I will give you personalized feedback.
Now, I do this in a lot of my other courses on Udemy.
Very few people do it.
Oh well TJ, what if somebody makes fun of me?
What if somebody sees it?
Well, somebody could make fun of the text on your website, too.
You could be in a meeting and someone could make fun of you if you never show up.
Yeah, maybe no one will make fun of you, but then you remain anonymous.
And that's the bigger problem for most people in most industries is simply not getting your message
across.
So I would urge you get over it.
Everybody's worried about their own video.
No one really has the time to come to Udemy.
Fish around in all the discussion groups, find your video and then cut and paste it to make it turn
into some joke on YouTube.
So that's what I'd ask you to do.
Post a video of yourself speaking.
Get to the point where you're comfortable with how you come across, because once you get there, then
we can do all the other things we're going to talk about in this course.

--- How This course Will Improve Your Business ---

So now we're ready to get going.
And I'm really hoping you don't just sit back and watch this course and find it interesting and leave
a bunch of stars.
I'm really hoping you put this to work in your own business, your own organization, your own website,
and all the other social media tools where you can use video these days.
So here's the structure of the course I'm going to outline for you a specific way I use video in my
own business and then I will give you an example of that video.
I don't expect you to watch the whole example.
You can get it probably in about 10s, but I put it there just so you can visualize it more.
I apologize in advance if it seems overly self-promotional.
This is a course on how to use video to promote yourself and to promote your business.
So if I'm going to give you examples, I really have no choice other than to give you the self promotional
examples.
In some cases I will put them right into the course here so they autoplay in Udemy.
Other cases the quality might not be good enough to pass udemy's high standards and it's nice they have
high standards.
So I'll put the URL typically a YouTube link or Vimeo or something like that.
Again, my recommendation.
You don't have to watch the whole thing, just watch a snippet.
What I'm trying to do is plant seeds in your own brain.
So you're thinking, Oh yeah, I should do a video on that for my organization.
Yeah, I should do a video on that summarizing the contents of my new book or whatever it is you're
producing and putting out to the world.
So with that noted, let's hop right in.

--- Your Proposals will Stand Head and Shoulders Above Your Competitors ---

As I mentioned at the beginning, one huge, huge benefit of getting comfortable doing simple talking
head video is you can give your proposals in that format.
Now, I'm not saying you can't also have a text version or a PDF to accompany it, but when someone
sees you mentioning them by name and they live in another city or another country, it just makes them
feel a lot more confidence in you when they can see you talking to them.
I'll tell you how I do that in just a moment.
But time out before we even get there.
None of this would be possible if it weren't for one personality trait that I have that makes me special,
that makes me good at this.
Are you ready for that?
The trait is.
I'm lazy.
I'm probably lazier than you are.
Why is that an advantage?
It's because I've never learned how to edit video.
Oh, that's impossible, TJ.
You can't possibly do a video these days without doing ten cuts every two seconds.
Well, no, you don't.
Some people do, and they can be successful.
And if you're 17 years old and you have a lot of time on your hands, or if you're Apple and you've
got billions of dollars for production, go ahead, be my guest.
But for most people in most organizations, even large organizations, if you're not in the communications
media arm, there simply isn't that much time, energy, effort and money.
If you shoot a whole bunch of raw footage and then you start trying to code everything you've shot and
labeling it and turning it into a TV commercial.
I've seen it where six months go by, a year will go by and the project becomes overwhelming.
And it never happens.
So again, my great strength is I'm too lazy to learn how to edit.
Because of that, I do everything really, really quickly, easily, cheaply.
So here's the value of the video proposal.
A prospect calls me up.
Let's say a major corporation could be based in the US, could be based in Malaysia.
They call up, say, TJ, we're just looking for a proposal for media training.
Can you send us a standard proposal?
And I'll say, sure, I'm happy to, but I need to know a little more about you.
So I'll ask them questions about how many executives they have.
Are they giving speeches or are they speaking to television interviews?
How many days are they looking for?
What do they really want to accomplish?
And then as soon as the call ends, I walk into my little studio here, which is really just a closet.
I turn on a button, the lights pop on and I just talk as if I were talking to that one prospect.
And I'll say, okay, Sanjay, thanks so much for calling me.
I understand you and your colleagues at XYZ Corp are interested in getting media training because you
really want to come across.
So I'll weave their name throughout.
I'll personalize it.
A lot of what I say is somewhat boilerplate, but I make everything sound completely fresh, original
to them and I am making it fresh and new for them.
It's not some button where an old video of me shows up.
It's actually me talking to the prospect by name, their company where they are referencing it and I'm
doing this.
So when that person has to get buy in from other decision makers, the CEO, the CEO can say, Well,
send me the top three proposals you got.
And the other two proposals are text.
And my liaison can now say, Oh, well, there's this one guy, T.J. Walker, who really seems a cut
above.
He went to the trouble of creating a video for us.
You should watch that first.
I know.
That's how I often get hired.
That's how I distinguish myself.
And again, this isn't time consuming.
I want to stress I'm actually saving time.
I'm not writing up a big, long proposal.
I'm simply talking sometimes for three minutes.
It could be for ten minutes.
But when I'm done, I simply hit stop, stop recording.
I label the video and I email it to the prospect and they love it.
They don't hire me 100% of the time.
But it's a huge leg up.
And I've had many, many clients tell me that's why they hired me.
Now, this works especially well if it is a prospect from another city, another country, another continent,
and they can't meet with you in person and there's no personal connection.
Especially if you're not a part of some wildly famous, big, well-known brand where all the credibility
is already there.
So I'm urging you, we're going to go through a lot of different ways of using video production and
simple talking head video for marketing purposes and business purposes.
But in my mind, this is the absolute best example of how to do it, in part because it's so simple.
It saves time and nobody else is doing it yet.
You might as well be first in your industry.

--- Your Clients Will Find You Their Most Responsive Partner Ever ---

You ever have a client email you a question or text you a question or call and leave a voicemail?
What do you do?
Well, most people type back and do it quickly, efficiently.
And that's good enough most of the time.
But why limit ourselves to the keyboard?
Why limit ourselves to text?
So when a client asks me any question about speaking to the media, giving speeches, giving presentations,
delivering PowerPoint, those are my areas of specialty.
I typically don't email them back with text.
I do a simple video where I answer their question.
I mention it by name, and I send it to them.
Now often mentioned just their first name.
I don't mention their company, so now I have content to put on YouTube and other places too.
So there's multiple uses for it, but clients really appreciate it.
Now, quite often a client will send me a video of his or her speech or media interview.
I'll take 30 60s watching it and then I'll respond.
But again, I do it in a video format because if someone's asking me how they look on TV and they had
a great message answered really well, but their head was stiff or their eyes darted, I want to show
them what they did wrong, as well as focus on what they did right.
Now, some of those things are specific to my industry because I teach people how to look good on camera
that might not be relevant to you.
But when it comes to just answering an everyday question from a client, video can be very powerful.
Clients tend to appreciate it.
Again, it stands out, it shows effort.
It shows you didn't just have a 22 year old intern answering your mail and just doing the easy bare
minimum to get the client out of your way.
It's simple.
It's easy.
It can be done.
I'll provide some examples for you next.

--- Your Website Can Be Video-Centric ---

Anything and everything on your website could be delivered in a video format.
Now I'll link below to my website just so you can see what I'm talking about when someone comes to media
training worldwide.com.
They're going to see videos of me talking about media training, videos of me talking about presentation
training, videos about all of our online courses.
So it's a video first website.
Maybe you don't want to make video the primary thing, but why not make it a secondary part of every
single part of your website?
I do believe some of the research and surveys that show that many people under 35 simply prefer video.
If you have clients under 35, why force them to use the format you want?
Why not give it to them in the format they want?
So anything and I mean anything on your website where you're doing this typing, you can put in a video
format.
I'll give you even more specific examples covering basic elements of your website and other aspects
of your online presence.
But I want you to start thinking in terms of anything on not just your website, but anything on the
web.
You could be communicating in a video format.
You can check below and you may hate my website for other reasons.
All I can tell you is it works for my business and it gets people seeing me and getting a sense of who
I am much faster than if they just had to read text.

--- Now You Can Answer Frequently Asked Questions Just Once! ---

Let me ask you, to all of your clients and prospects ask you completely different questions every day,
every week, every month?
I'm guessing no.
I'm guessing maybe a few of the questions are different.
But if you're like most businesses again and again and again, you hear the same questions and you have
to give the same answers and you have to explain this over the phone, talking to people, meeting with
them in person, sending follow up emails.
Why not make your frequently asked questions in a video format?
That way you can send it right to someone.
You can make it available on your website, you can make it available on your YouTube channel.
So it probably wouldn't take you more than a half an hour to really sit down and brainstorm of what
are the most often asked questions that you receive in your business.
You may come up with five.
You may come up with 50, but write them down and then just record them.
Again, we don't have to win Oscars.
We're not trying to win video production awards.
If we're giving our customers, our clients and prospects interesting, valuable information.
It is a win for everyone.
Once I had a slow afternoon in the summer a couple of years ago, I just recorded 100 frequently asked
questions all in one afternoon and now I've got it.
I'll link to some of those next.
And you can see you don't have to watch all of them, but I want you to see how simple and easy it is.
And it just gives clients and prospects a greater sense that you've thought about this, that you really
are an expert, that you have competence, that your organization is the one they should be dealing
with.

--- Talk Your Customers Through Your Whole Business Process ---

There's another whole category of communication that I just call procedures for clients and customers.
Every business is different, but most businesses have something where when somebody becomes a client
or a valued customer, they have to communicate stuff on a regular basis, or at least in a concentrated
form before a specific activity or service takes place.
So in my own business, I conduct media training, workshops, public speaking workshops full day.
Typically, people hire me 3 to 6 weeks, sometimes eight weeks in advance.
So a couple of weeks in advance.
I email them a pre training homework and on this there is text on the page, but there is a video of
me explaining it.
Now here's the thing some of you will find odd.
I also have a pre training conference call with a clients where I can talk to them at and answer their
questions, Go over the instructions.
I cover everything in the video as well because there's some concepts people have a very hard time grasping.
So for example, I tell them in the phone call and in the video and in text that they need to send me
a video of themselves giving a sample speech or giving a sample media interview, a new one.
They've practiced and refined and still a lot of them don't do it.
And they're like, Oh, I didn't know I was supposed to do that.
And I know they heard me on the conference call and I know they got the link.
My point is not to criticize clients.
My clients are wonderful, but that every additional form of communication you have can increase the
odds of your clients, your customers getting it.
And sometimes, whether you're delivering a high level service or you have a complicated product, give
people a video explaining it.
It drives me utterly insane every time I buy either a piece of equipment for my gym or any other form
of equipment, exercise equipment, sporting equipment and the manufacture has no video on how to put
it together.
Drives me insane.
I've got a call.
Waste their time with the 800 number.
Now I'm not selling a lot of hard physical products that have to be assembled.
You might.
That's yet another example of how it would be great to have a video really explaining things.
Your clients, your customers, your prospects will really appreciate it and it will save you time.
Again, it doesn't have to be pretty.
You want a phone call?
I got to tell you.
Isn't that pretty?
But you can convey the information you need.
Same with video.
Only for some people it's more powerful and it shows that you've given it real thought.

--- Have an Even Greater Presence on YouTube ---

You don't need me to tell you about YouTube unless you just crawled out from under a rock.
You've heard of YouTube.
You've been there a thousand times.
You've watched videos.
But here's my question How much is on your YouTube channel right now?
I'm constantly shocked about businesses, major businesses.
You go to the YouTube channel and it's three videos from five years ago.
Now they might be slick, nice looking videos, it might be their commercials and nothing maybe not
a five year gap, but certainly a six month gap.
I'll go to major communications firms, public relations firms, investor relations firms, and they
got nothing.
Or they got five videos up.
Even people in my own field of media training, public speaking training.
So few videos, not much there.
Yes.
If you can do a video and it goes viral and 10 million people watch it and you become the next Justin
Bieber, great.
That's not what I'm talking about here.
What I'm talking about is using this channel as a constant form of communication so you can be talking
to clients, prospects, customers, people who just find you interesting about what it is you do and
do it regularly.
It can be any length of time.
People ask me all the time.
TJ What's the perfect length of a time for a YouTube video?
And my answer is as long as it takes to give somebody something of value.
In general, the shorter the better.
Okay.
The average watch time for my videos is three minutes and 15 seconds on YouTube.
Now on Facebook, it's more like 10s.
So there's a huge difference depending on what platform you're on.
And I have some very successful videos where I was able to get across one point and 20s.
But my most successful video ever on YouTube has an hour's worth of content an hour, and people watch
on average 15 minutes of it.
So my recommendation don't focus on having your little stopwatch out there and getting it exactly 60s
or two minutes or it's got to be less than three minutes.
Focus on delivering good content, interesting useful information and do it regularly.
Now I post one video seven days a week.
I used to do more, believe it or not.
You might do once a month.
You might do once a week.
It's up to you.
But what I have found and what I think you'll find is it's actually easier to do it once a week than
it is once a month.
You'll spend more time thinking about it and wondering and agonizing and getting yourself going.
And it's actually easier to do once a day than once a week.
Now, I typically batch them, as I mentioned, I'll do 100 at a time and then not do any more YouTube
videos for a couple of months sometimes, but for many, many years I would just do them every day.
Got me used to it, got me in the habit, got me really comfortable talking to a video camera.
To me, it's really no different than talking to one customer or client, but that takes it doesn't
take any unique talent.
It doesn't take a skill.
It's just something that you develop if you do it a bunch.
So my recommendation to you is create content on your YouTube channel and you may be a part of a big
company that has really slick, expensive videos.
Fine, But there's nothing wrong with having simple talking head videos as well.
Even big companies have tweets and blog posts that are just a couple sentences of text.
They might also have really slick books and fancy PDFs and images.
Just because you have one form that's fancy and produced doesn't mean you can't have a simplified version.
That's really my thesis.
When it comes to simple talking head video.
Yeah, you can have the fancy, expensive video, which, as I remind you, is not what this course
is about, but you can also have simple talking head video without any edits to remind you again you
can hit on and when you're done, you're ready to go after doing this.

--- Speak Your Thought Leadership ---

When you mention thought leadership to most people in the business world, they think of an extensive
white paper, a book, perhaps a documentary.
Well, I want to put out another idea for you.
Why not a lengthy video where you go in depth on a subject.
Now, I'm not opposed to thought leadership in other formats.
I've written half a dozen books, and that's not what I'm here to sell you on today.
What I'm here to sell you on is the idea of you speaking in a video format to further establish your
thought leadership.
If you go to YouTube and you type in media training for the last four years, the first video that comes
up is mine.
And it's number one in part because it's simply more comprehensive than any other video on media training.
It's an hour long.
There's nothing fancy about it.
There are no edits.
There's nothing slick.
It's just me standing right here talking.
I have a backdrop where it looks like I'm in a TV studio, but it's just me.
And because of that, I've had other organizations call me, hire me to do on camera work for them to
make training videos for them and to do media training for them all because of that one thought leadership
video.
And to be honest with you, I made a mistake on the audio that day, and the audio really wasn't that
good, but it is still helped me immensely.
I'll put a link to it following this video, you can see for yourself.
Now you might want to not want to talk for one hour, might be ten minutes.
But don't force yourself into thinking, Oh, video's got to be quick, quick, catch up.
32nd.
Now you can go really deep into a subject.
Not everyone in the world will want to see it, but those you care about the most, perhaps your best
client prospects will want to watch it before calling you.
And that's the magic of video thought leadership.

--- Your Exciting Video Newsletters Will Outshine Text Newsletters ---

Whether you're a one person company or a multi-billion dollar corporation, you probably have one or
more newsletters coming out of your organization.
Newsletters.
Actual letters.
Most newsletters are filled with letters.
Actual text.
Well, why is that?
Well, it's because traditionally it was a lot cheaper to write than it was to make video or make quality
audio.
I understand traditionally why that was the case.
But again, today we're all surrounded by video cameras, every cell phone, laptop, computer.
So it's not necessarily easier or cheaper to send out newsletters in a text format than it is video.
Now, I've talked about a lot of different styles of video ways you can use video.
At this point.
We're going to morph some of them together because there'll be multiple purposes for them.
And you can cross-pollinate, you can you can use any one video for multiple purposes.
So your YouTube videos, your frequently asked questions, videos, you can put those in your newsletter.
I've had a newsletter for more than 17 years as of production date today and for many years it was just
text.
And then it was a combination of video and text.
Now it's all video.
Now I do that because my business is about how to speak, how to speak to the media, how to give speeches.
Your business probably isn't that niche, but still, what would be wrong with, say, one item from
your newsletter each week or each month being a video?
It could be a personal message from you to clients or customers.
It breaks things up and gets people away from just thinking, Oh, here's another ho hum newsletter
with a bunch of text or a pretty graphic that somebody bought off of a website somewhere.
When it's used speaking, they know you put thought into it.
So I would suggest that you think about how to create a newsletter.
I'll put a few samples of mine in the next lesson as well so you can look at it.

--- Facebook Live Will Never Scare You Again ---

Facebook Live is another great option for communicating with customers, clients, prospects, your
community, your tribe in a video format.
Now, the thing I really love two things about Facebook Live.
Number one, once it's done, it's done.
You're not even tempted to do numerous takes because it's live.
Number two, most people are scared and nervous about doing anything live.
So even fewer of your competitors are doing this.
It's an ability and option to really cutting through the clutter once again.
Extra bonuses of doing Facebook Live.
Facebook loves it.
They reward you.
They put you in front of so many more of your followers, people who've liked your page, who are friends,
if it's a personal page.
Anytime I do a Facebook live, I get a much larger audience.
Again, all it is, is talking.
The Beauty of Facebook Live and additional beauty is people can type in questions, they can interact,
they can put little heart things on, and it's live.
They can really communicate directly with you and you can make it more like a town hall meeting sometimes
so that this also applies to to YouTube hangouts.
There are other formats where you can do this as well.
The beauty of Facebook is so many people are already there, so it's a great way of having an audience
built in.
Now you could get really fancy and have big cameras and have all the fancy way of doing it, like a
broadcast production, but you can also just hold your own cell phone and do it.
Don't even worry about a microphone.
Now, you could, but some of the most successful Facebook lives I've ever done, it's been me in a
training or somewhere and I'm just holding my cell phone out at arm's length.
Now, a couple of tips If you're going to do that, have the cell phone a couple of inches above your
eyes.
What most people do that's wrong is they have it down.
It's shooting up their nose and the only thing you see is the light above your head, the lights on
the ceiling so it darkens your face.
Try to keep it a couple of inches above your eyes, or at least no lower than your eye level.
It will look much, much better.
Now, if you want to take it up a notch, have another person hold.
Your cell phone or if you're using an iPad and that way you can frame it a little better.
It can look a little nicer.
Be careful, though, because sometimes there's a time lag between when you think you've started and
you started more important when you think you've ended.
Sometimes it goes on another couple of seconds.
So don't make the mistake of finishing and then saying, Oh gosh, I'm glad that's over.
That was a bunch of I've seen that happen to people and it was quite embarrassing.
So stay in the moment.
When you're done, just stop talking, wait a couple of seconds, make sure it's completely off and
then go on.
The other beauty of Facebook Live is it gets you even more used to speaking on camera.
If you can do it live.
There's a certain adrenaline rush going through your body.
Do that.
It doesn't have to be every day.
It could be once a month, it could be twice a year.
But when you do things live and you get used to it, then when you're doing your own recordings and
it's not live, it's even less stressful and it's easier than ever.
So please, I beg you, don't overlook this opportunity because it is huge.

--- Project Your Best Face on Skype and Zoom ---

Skype has been around a long time.
A lot of people like to use Zoom these days.
WebEx is still around.
I'm not here to proselytize for any one format of online video communication, but I do want you to
think about how you can choose one of those or whatever is flexible and convenient for your client or
prospect and to make that a default form of communication.
To many people in too many organizations have a hierarchy where print or texting or email is the first
format.
Telephone or texting is the second format, and only if it's like a really special occasion do we somehow
do things on video.
Why?
Again, there used to be a time when you had to have a whole special room for this, an extra cost and
satellite time.
We don't have any of that anymore.
You can do a Skype video meeting, conference, whatever you want to call it, a call also on FaceTime
with the push of a button.
What holds back so many people is what we talked about in those initial lessons in this course.
They're not comfortable with how they look and how they sound.
That's why the more you get people starting in this used to this, it creates a cycle of virtue.
The more you do it, the more comfortable you get.
The more you want to do it, the better you get.
The more comfortable you get, the more you want to do it.
It just goes on and on in a positive way.
So that's why in my own business, any time someone calls me, I very quickly say, Could we take this
to Skype?
And it just makes them more comfortable.
It's easier for people to understand.
You can see the body language, you can see the lips moving.
If someone's emailing me questions, I'll ask, Can we call back on Skype video?
Could use Zoom, anything else as well.
So these are old tools.
They've been around for a while.
The change I'm trying to have you really think about is how to make it more of a default, a primary
mode of communication, not just an extra thing for something special.

--- Deliver Keynote Speeches Without Ever Leaving Home ---

This next way of using video sort of piggybacks on the last lesson regarding Skype.
It's not something most people typically think of.
But here it is.
Give a keynote speech at a convention entirely through online video, regardless of what field you're
in, if you've been doing it for a while and you have any sort of reputation, you're likely to be invited
to speak.
Now, you might not get invited to speak and have a big 20 or $30,000 keynote speaking fee.
As a professional speaker, chances are a lot more likely you're asked to speak for free to either give
back to a community or profession or as an opportunity to promote your business.
Well, here's what I now do with speaking opportunities around the world.
If someone says TJ, can you speak in New Zealand and we can't afford your normal fee?
I say, Sure, let's do the whole thing through Skype video.
And it works extremely well.
All you have to do is let people on the other end know that it's even possible.
Because if you can speak on Skype video or any other platform, all they need is to connect the computer
or laptop that you're speaking into on their end to a projector that can project it up on a wall, a
screen that's 50ft.
They can plug the audio out of that computer into speakers you could be seen by.
50 people.
500, 5000 people.
When you think about it, many conventions you go to, there's more than a couple hundred people in
the room.
Quite often you're not watching the speaker speak.
You're watching the big Jumbotron.
You're you're watching the big imag, the image magnification, the screen.
So it's not that much different from the standpoint of the audience.
It saves you a ton of time this way.
Let's say I'm not going as far away as New Zealand, but if I'm just going to the next state over to
give a speech, that's a whole day out of my life.
By the time I've traveled there, gotten there, shaking hands, other things talk to people afterwards,
traffic.
But that's a day out of my life.
That's eight hours out of my life.
But now I can give a keynote speech to any organization in the world or any business in the world,
and I can do it.
In my case, I have a home studio, so I don't even have to put on shoes.
I can wear slippers and it only takes me the time when I'm speaking.
So it doesn't take a lot of extra effort.
This is a simple white backdrop.
We're not going to spend a lot of time on backdrops and productions, as I warn you in the beginning.
But this is a white PowerPoint slide.
I'm just in front of a TV, and yet it can be a great experience for the audience.
I've done this now with speeches all over the world.
I've got my speaker here.
I can hear them just as you would any Skype video or Zoom conference.
They just have to plug a microphone in on their end.
So this is another great tool.
Most people, even if they like speaking and are ambitious and energetic, we'll try to say yes to speaking
engagements, but if they can't fly to the place, they'll just say, Sorry, it doesn't work.
I'm recommending you.
Don't turn anyone down.
You just say, Yes, I'll do it.
But it's going to have to be a keynote speech via Skype video or some other platform.
You'll reach a lot more of an audience.
No travel time.
It's a huge, huge win and it's underused.

--- Supercharge Your Public Relations Efforts With Video ---

Simple talking head video is one of the greatest tools ever for your public relations.
If your goal is to get media attention, whether it's local media attention, the local NBC affiliate
national attention on Al Jazeera, CNN, BBC having video where you're already talking about the issue
the reporter wants to talk about or the host wants to talk about is a huge step up producers want to
see.
Can you talk about this issue?
One technique I've used with tremendous success over the years is when there's a breaking news story
that relates to my area of expertise.
Let's say it happens at 10:00 in the morning.
Well, by 1010, I've done a video analyzing it, whether it's a politician saying something stupid
or going down in flames at a at a press conference, I will analyze it in a video format short, typically
90s or so, and then put it on my website, put it on YouTube, tweet it, but also send the video to
producers.
I know we'll be covering that story and quite often that gets the call.
They don't have to wonder what my opinions are.
They've already seen it.
They don't have to wonder if I can speak on camera.
They've already seen it.
So it can really catapult your whole PR strategy in a more powerful way and get you a lot more coverage
because you're making it easy for reporters, bookers, producers to use you.
This is much easier than writing the 800 word op ed piece and thinking about it for two days and then
trying to push it to the media after they've long forgotten the issue.
It's the immediacy of it and the fact that you're showing media outlets, even print outlets, that
you're articulate and you have a strong, interesting view on a subject.
So if you're not doing this and you're spending money putting out press releases or dealing with a PR
firm, you're really missing out on a lot.

--- The Crisis Communications Secret Weapon ---

Related to the last issue of using video for public relations.
There's a sub niche of that where I think your own simple talking head video can be incredibly helpful,
and that is during crisis times for crisis communications.
If you are a manager and there's some kind of an explosion or a fire at your power plant and all of
a sudden everyone wants to know, are we safe?
Should we evacuate?
And you're getting all kinds of media calls everywhere.
It's quite often much smarter to just do a simple 2 or 3, maybe even five minute video.
You can put it out to the whole world.
Now all the local TV stations can take it.
Print organizations, text organizations, the radio people can pull the audio from it.
You'll still do other interviews, but you're showing people in time of a crisis, you're not ducking
for cover.
You're not hiding, you're not hiding behind lawyers and press releases.
The CEO, whoever the highest ranking official is in the organization, is putting his or her face forward,
answering in the video the most obvious questions before they're even asked, showing transparency.
That goes a long way to making the community regulators, other interest groups, your clients, customers,
the community feel better about you during a time of crisis.
It's an underused technique, but it's incredibly helpful, incredibly powerful, and will go a long
way to help preserve and protect your reputation during a time of crisis.

--- Drastically Reduce Your Time Training Employees and Others ---

The last big category that I wanted to have you think about.
It's the last one I put on the list for a purpose because I don't think it's quite as relevant to most
people.
But the last category is video to create online training.
Why don't you have a course here on Udemy?
Now, you might not think of yourself as a full time professional trainer.
You may say, Well, TJ, you're just projecting because I am a trainer.
That's right.
But think about it.
If there's any form of expertise you have that other people could value from, maybe you do want to
make it available in the form of an online course, if nothing else, just for your own employees or
people in your organization, it could perhaps save you time if they go through a video training course
from you before having to spend time with you.
Everyone could win.
They could watch it and and rewatch it for certain key points rather than you having to remind a new
employee ten times about a particular issue.
So I want you to give it some thought.
It's really not that hard and the stakes are just not that high.
If you do it on a subject and you don't make $1 million from it, big deal.
That's not something you put all your time and energy and efforts into.
And you don't have to put a lot of money into it.
There have been times, for example, when I just had a spare hour and I did an hour long course on
body language.
People don't hire me to help them with their body language, but I do get questions from time to time
from my public speaking and media training clients about body language.
So I said, Well, why don't I just throw together a course on body language for people who are going
on TV or trying to come across as more professional when they're speaking or in the office place.
I put together the course and you know what?
It's not going to pay off the house or buy a swimming pool.
But it has generated thousands of dollars.
I realize that might not be your revenue model.
But it couldn't hurt.
If you have expertise, share it.
Sometimes just packaging it in a way where you call it a course helps.
Other people want to take a look and learn from you.

--- Before We Start, Here is the #1 Tip to Improving Your Communication Skills ---

Before we even start this course.
I've got to give you one quick tip, and this one tip will help get you to the top 1% of all students
in this course and frankly, to the top 1% of all speakers and media communicators.
Here it is.
You've got to practice saying what it is you want to say on video and you have to watch it and you have
to watch it repeatedly.
You have to get friends to critique it and you have to post that video or a link to that video from
your YouTube channel in the discussion section of this course.
If you do this, I guarantee you you'll be in the top 1% and you will be in great shape if you watch
all the videos 100 times or read all the books 100 times, but you don't record yourself on video,
you're frankly not going to get much out of this course.
So please, I beg you, today, not tomorrow, but today.
Record yourself speaking.
Watch it, post it here.
Let others look at it.

--- Eliminating Speaking Anxiety ---

If you have a fear of public speaking, relax.
It just means you're normal.
Most people have a fear of public speaking.
In fact, numerous polls have shown that the number one fear people have is public speaking.
So it's actually kind of weird if you don't fear public speaking, as Jerry Seinfeld always points out.
Because of this poll, it means most people, if they had to go to a funeral, would rather be in the
casket than delivering the eulogy.
Now, I think that is going too far.
I think most people, if you said, all right, you have to jump out of this plane without a parachute
or jump off this cliff or give a short speech, most people would be very happy to give that speech.
But I do think that giving a speech is one of those things that the average person could be asked to
do in the course of a normal week is the thing that creates a lot of tension that makes them uncomfortable.
So I do understand why people say they fear public speaking.
But I've got a little test for you right now.
If I said to you, you're going to go to a restaurant tonight and see your three best friends, it's
going to be a noisy, crowded restaurant.
There'll be a lot of people around and you're going to talk to your best friends about the game you
all saw last night that you care about or a particular movie you all saw in the last week.
And everyone's passionate about it.
And now it's your turn to talk about what you thought of it.
And you've got a glass of wine or whatever you enjoy.
Now, are you nervous when you're talking?
Chances are no.
Well, guess what?
That's public speaking.
You're in a room.
There are a lot of people there and your mouth is moving.
You're speaking and you say, Well, TJ, that's different.
I'm relaxed.
I'm with friends.
It really isn't different.
The reason you're comfortable is, you know, how you're coming across.
You're feeling relaxed.
But the fact that there's a room full of people and your mouth is moving and sound is coming in, that's
not actually making you nervous, but you are doing public speaking.
Now, why do I point that out?
It's because I believe most people who are nervous about public speaking are nervous in a narrower context.
They're nervous about speaking in public, in school or in business, or they're not quite sure how
they're coming across and they're not quite sure if the information they're presenting is interesting
to anyone or is understandable to anyone.
If you're talking about the big game last night that you saw and you saw it with your buddies or your
friends, you know they understand what you're talking about.
There's that sense of commonality.
And yet if you're giving a new business pitch or if you're talking to an angel investor or a venture
capitalist about why this person should fund your organization for $1 million, you may be feeling really
scared and nervous.
But I want to suggest to you it's not really about public speaking.
It's really more about this particular situation of do I have an interesting message?
Are they going to like me?
Those are separate issues.
If you absolutely, positively can never speak in public.
If you go to a restaurant with your family members and you can't talk at all because you're just so
afraid of people around, I'm afraid this course isn't for you.
I'm not going to be able to help you.
But if you're like most people where you are comfortable in certain situations but then deathly afraid
in other situations, this course is really going to help you.
Now, let's take a step back.
Why are we nervous when we speak?
Evolutionary biologists believe that human beings are programmed to fear being separated from the crowd.
It's a defense mechanism.
In prehistoric days, if you're a part of the herd, it doesn't matter if you're gazelle or deer or
human beings.
If you're away from the herd, you're vulnerable.
Some lion or tiger bear can see just you zoom in on you, grab you, kill you and eat you.
So when you're standing up to speak the whole herd, you were with the audience.
They're over there.
You're now standing.
You're the only person everyone can see.
So from an evolutionary biological standpoint, it makes sense to be nervous.
So your body is sending adrenaline throughout everywhere in your veins.
And because of that, your brain is shutting down because your body is saying don't think run.
And that's why if you've ever noticed, your palms might get wet, If you weren't wearing shoes, you
would notice the bottoms of your feet are getting wet.
That's because your body is preparing you for flight.
Your body is preparing you to run away from what it senses is a dangerous situation.
You being isolated from the crowd now.
The good news is, even though on some college campuses, the audience can be rude or heckle.
It's highly unlikely that any audience member is going to come attack you, physically attack you and
kill you and eat you.
It's just not likely to happen.
So at some level, we've got to hide that from our own sense and not worry about it and instead focus
what we've really got to do, and that is speak in a way that's interesting and understandable and relevant
to your audience.
The number one way to get over being afraid of speaking is you've got to focus exclusively on your audience,
helping them.
If you're really focused on helping your audience understand something, learn something you haven't
even had the luxury of thinking about yourself at that point, your nerves will melt away.

--- Avoid Fake Solutions That Don't Work ---

If you have a fear of public speaking, you've probably tried a few solutions in the past.
Let me name some of them and kind of debunk myths surrounding them.
For starters, there's this idea that you can just take a drug.
There is a drug.
There are beta blockers out there that will keep you from getting as tensed up.
But if you're still giving an awful speech, if you're still boring, what good does it do?
And what happens when you have to speak and you don't have these beta blockers?
I have had clients who have used beta blockers.
I do not recommend them at all.
Now they don't make you high, but they do keep you from being as tensed up.
I think that's masking the problem.
The real problem is you're not certain.
You have a great message and a great speech and we've got to focus on that.
That relates to some of the other solutions.
People say, Oh, let me just do a couple of shots.
If I do a couple shots of tequila, I'll be relaxed and I'll do fine.
Again, the problem quite often is not that you're tensed up.
The problem is you haven't prepared the right way and you're not absolutely certain that you're going
to give a great speech.
The problem with drinking a little is alcohol on most people affects your memory.
I'm not talking about after you've had 14 drinks and you can't remember your name.
A lot of people, even for one drink, it slows down the recall process of your memory.
So it's even harder to think about what you're going to say.
Now you're already tense and nervous, so your brain isn't working as well as it normally does.
So if you add that little extra element of the alcohol, it slows you down even more.
Plus, with alcohol, for some people, it can make you read.
It can also make you a little sweaty.
That will make you look nervous.
The other problem with having alcohol, even with a glass of wine before a speech is quite often people
will come up to you afterwards, shake your hand and may be the only time they meet you in their entire
life.
And if they're smelling alcohol on your breath, that may be the one thing they remember.
So I don't recommend that.
Some people say, Well, if I just have green tea, it'll calm me down.
Maybe, but it won't make you a better speaker.
There are those who like to deal with hypnosis or visualization techniques.
If I just visualize myself getting a standing ovation, everything will be great.
Or if I convince myself I'm not nervous with speaking.
I'm not saying there's no value in those things, but my point is you're masking the underlying problem.
The problem is you've got to make sure you have a great, interesting, relevant speech for this audience.
So let's not try to cover it up.
Other techniques people use, they think, well, if I just read my speech the whole time, then no
one will notice that I'm looking scared because my eyes will be down.
Well, if you read your speech, you're going to put everyone to sleep and you're going to seem scared.
And that's the problem with using a teleprompter.
Or some people say, well, if I just sort of stand back here and read the bullets on my PowerPoint,
then no one will notice me.
They'll all be focused on the PowerPoint.
No, they won't.
If you do that, everyone will be focused on this.
That's right.
Reading their email.
So these are all awful tactics that people have to cope with their fear of public speaking, but it
doesn't deal with the underlying cause.
Let's step back a minute.
Let me ask you this.
If I told you that I had a deathly fear of walking through Times Square naked because people would laugh
at me and think, I tell me I look stupid and I'd be worried about, gosh, am I fat or am I going to
get arrested for indecent exposure?
Am I going to be in the news tonight?
Would you tell me, Well, here's a pill so you wouldn't worry about it or here's a bottle of tequila.
Get drunk and you won't worry about walking naked through Times Square.
Or just visualize yourself getting a standing ovation with everyone saying how wonderful you look naked.
Would you give me that advice?
Or would you say, for crying out loud, put some clothes on before you walk through Times Square?
I think you would do that.
Similarly, think about how you get ready to go to your office or your school or place of business every
morning.
If you're like most people, you get up, you look in the mirror, you get out of the shower, you look
in the mirror, you get dressed.
You're either shaving, putting on makeup, you look in a mirror.
So by the time you leave your house and walk into your office, you've looked at the mirror numerous
times and you know, there's not grape jelly all over your face.
There's not lipstick over here because you've looked.
You've had.
Independent verification.
So if somebody said to you, okay, now be nervous when you walk into that office of eight colleagues
you've seen every day for two years, you probably say, well, how can I be nervous?
I mean, I know what I look like and this is how I want to come across.
This is the best I can do.
There's no surprise you wouldn't be able to be nervous because you have a process in place and because
you looked in a mirror, you didn't visualize yourself having your hair combed and your makeup on.
You actually looked in a mirror.
Well, when it comes to speaking, there is a similar process, and that involves practicing your presentation
on video.
We'll be talking about that in further lessons.
But we can't get to that until I've sort of gotten rid of these bad ideas out there.
There are so many bad ideas on how to mask your insecurity about public speaking.
The reality is there's a great reason for being nervous about speeches and talks, because chances I
don't want to sound mean here, but chances are your speech might be really boring.
It might be really awful.
Now why am I saying that?
It's because think about it.
Most speeches, most talks, most presentations, most PowerPoint presentations are really dull.
They're just boring data dumps.
So if you're nervous about being a speaker and standing up and giving a presentation, it may just mean
you're a nice person and you're feeling sort of awful or embarrassed or ashamed about boring people
to death.
Well, the solution isn't for you to feel better about giving an awful speech.
The solution is for you to actually give a great presentation.
And you can.

--- The Process of Eliminating Fear ---

The way to eliminate fear with public speaking is to come up with a process, something you can do every
single time, so that we're not leaving anything up to chance that you're not wondering about what to
do.
Imagine this if I told you.
Okay, you must dictate a memo about what your business does, what the biggest goals are in the next
three months, and you can't spell check it, edit it, or review it.
You simply have to dictate it into a machine, into the computer hit send, and it's going to go to
your boss, the board of directors, everyone in the media, every client customer, and all of your
colleagues.
And this written document is going to be sent in an email from you.
Would that make you nervous?
Would you ever do that?
I can tell you that would make me nervous because it would be filled with misspellings.
There would be typos, there would be poor grammar.
Most likely it would be a jumbled mess because that would be my rough draft.
So most of you would never, ever, ever do that.
Guess what?
If you ever give a speech and you were talking it out loud to your audience, you're giving your rough
draft.
Rough drafts, by definition, are what?
They're rough.
You should be nervous if you're just tossing it out for the first time.
However, if I told you, okay, you have to send a memo giving a summary of what you've done in the
last quarter, what the goals are for the next quarter, and you've got two weeks.
You can type it, edit it, refine it, use grammar, check, use spell check, you can send it to other
colleagues, get their input, edit it, refine it, and you've got two weeks and you actually do the
work and you go through 4 or 5 drafts right before you you hit the send button.
If I say, Well, are you nervous now?
Try to be nervous, I doubt you'd be able to be nervous.
Why?
Is it because you're convinced you're the world's greatest writer?
Probably not.
But you have a system in place.
You wrote it, you rewrote it.
You ran it through spell check.
I always have to use spell check.
There's sometimes when I misspell every single word in a document that I've typed.
But you're going to have a system spell check.
Edit it, perhaps have other colleagues look at it.
Email it to three colleagues you trust.
Get feedback.
So by the time you hit send, you're not feeling any tension.
It doesn't mean you're guaranteed that your boss will approve the budget or whatever you're asking for,
but you're not nervous about the actual way you're communicating in this text document because you have
a system, you have a process, you have an editing process, you have a refining process, and that's
why you're not nervous.
Most of us, when we're asked to send a document and we're given notice, I'm here to tell you you can
do the exact same thing with your speeches, with your talks, with your PowerPoint presentations.
But it's not about writing and rewriting text because that's not the final output.
The final output is you speaking.
So you're going to have to speak out loud, captured on video and figure out what you like or don't
like and keep refining it.
That's the process for getting a great presentation.
When you have a great presentation and you know it's a good presentation, it actually becomes extremely
difficult to be nervous or fearful.

--- The Fear of Boring ---

A huge part of what's driving this fear of public speaking is just people being polite, fearing that
they're going to bore an audience.
No one wants to be a bore.
If you're a sensitive person and I assume you are, you don't really want to be rude and bore people
to death.
Here's the problem with most speeches, even with confident speakers, is it's just a big data dump.
It's like, here's a stack of every single fact about what my organization has done for the last quarter
or everything my business has done for the last two years, and I'm just going to throw it all at you.
It's boring.
It's tedious.
It's a data dump.
Nobody likes that.
But unfortunately, that's what passes for so many speeches in the business world, academic world as
well, and the nonprofit world.
It's something that affects my clients all over the globe.
The solution is don't give a boring data dump.
So much of being a good speaker and appearing to be confident.
Ultimately, being confident is being a better editor, figuring out out of everything I could say on
this subject, what's most important?
How have I really narrowed it down to what my audience has to know?
Now I've been training presidents, politicians, CEOs, prime ministers, Nobel Peace Prize winners,
senators, members of parliament for 30 years.
And I want to just give you quickly the advice that they pay me a lot of money for.
I'm going to give it to you right now.
And it all comes down to this.
Narrow your presentation down to just five ideas.
Have an example, preferably a story for each one and practice on video until you're happy with it.
If you follow those few tips, you can be forget just getting over your fear of speaking.
You can be a great speaker.
You could be a fantastic speaker.
You could be just a world class speaker if you just follow those tips.
But if you go into the speech all nervous and flustered and, oh, I want these people to think I'm
smart.
So I'm taking all these pages of fact after fact and bullet point after bullet point and complex chart.
What you're doing is trying to mask your insecurities, but it doesn't work.
You'll just look more scared and more nervous.
It doesn't work.
Truly confident speakers know I don't have to tell these people everything in the world I know on this
subject.
It's my job to put a spotlight on just 1 or 2 or at most, a handful of ideas.
Now, the reason I say five, a handful, is for years and years and years with all of my clients and
I work with people from six continents, first thing I ask them is, tell me about the best speaker
you've seen in the last year, maybe the last five years.
Now tell me every single idea, every message you remember from that presentation.
Sometimes people don't remember anything.
They just like this person's style.
Sometimes they remember one idea, occasionally two, sometimes three ideas every few months.
And I ask this question every week.
Somebody will remember four ideas from the best speaker they've seen in years.
Every six months.
Usually one person will remember five ideas from the best speaker they've seen that year, perhaps ever
in their lifetime.
In all the years I've asked that question, I've never had anyone tell me they remember more than five
ideas from the best speaker in the world.
So if you want to be great, focus on no more than five ideas.
Pretty simple.
And yet people hear me say that they agree with me.
They nod.
They tell me they only remember 2 or 3 ideas from the best speaker they've ever seen.
It's their turn to get up and give a speech and the speech training and what do they do?
They've got 50 pages, 89 points or a bullet point slide with 89 points.
In complex graphs, complexity is your enemy because at some level, even if it's a subconscious level,
you know, you're boring your audience to death.
It's also putting a lot of pressure on you to either remember stuff or to read a whole bunch of stuff,
and you're not used to reading in front of people.
That's difficult.
I want to make your life easier.
One of the reasons you're nervous before you're giving a speech is you're trying to do something very
unnatural.
If you're all of a sudden listing a whole bunch of bullet points and a whole bunch of data, that's
not the way you usually talk.
Most human beings, they're walking down the hallway.
A colleague asks them a quick question.
They'll focus on just answering that question if it relates to an issue they have.
Add talking to a client the day before, they'll say, Oh yeah, Smithers in our Chicago office, call
me about that.
And he said, They'll instantly relate it to an actual experience.
That's what we all do as human beings, talking one on one.
We give up.
We get up to give this serious speech.
We stop doing that.
Here's the little secret.
Great speakers do the same thing you do when you're in the hallway.
They just treat it like it's a conversation with one person.
They give examples.
They give stories.
The biggest difference between great speakers and awful speakers is that great speakers illustrate every
single key point with a story.
Awful speakers say, I'd love to tell stories, but there's no time.
I've got all this data to go through, so you might not aspire to be the next Anthony Robbins.
You may hate public speaking.
You may go for the rest of your life trying to avoid public speaking.
That's okay.
But I do want you to know it's actually very simple to be not just, okay, not just average.
It's actually pretty easy to be great if all you do is this one thing.
Illustrate your key points with a story.
A story is simply you recounting a conversation you had with a real client, a real colleague, a real
customer about a real problem and how you felt.
That's all a story is.
So when you have good stories and you know audiences will understand them and remember them and get
something out of it, it fills you with confidence.
It makes your life so much easier.
It makes it the stress just melt away because everybody's winning.
You know, you're succeeding.
You know your audience is helping.
So that's the process.
You can have all the great skills in the world and booming voice and good hand motions and a straight
tie.
But if your speech is really boring and it's a boring data dump, it's not going to matter.
You're going to be awful.
So even if you're not nervous, maybe you should be.
However, if you have a good speech structure, no more than five points and an example, a story for
each one of your points, you're going to be great.
You're going to be so much better than all the other speakers that day and you're going to know it.
And when you know it, the tension, the anxiety, the fear, it just melts away.

--- Rehearse Your Presentation On Video ---

Okay, folks, this is the part of the course where we separate those who actually want to get over
their fear of public speaking versus those who just want to sit around and whine and cry and be Baby,
I don't mean to sound like I'm insensitive, but I have a very, very specific exercise for you to do.
And I feel so strongly about it that I guarantee you this will work and you will get over your fear
of public speaking if you do what I ask you to do.
In fact, I feel so strongly I will give you your money back for this course.
I will make sure you get your money back from this course.
Plus I'll even send you a copy of my book.
This was the number one USA Today bestseller, Business Week bestseller, secret to foolproof presentations
in a digital format.
I'll send it to you free of charge if you try what I'm doing and you say you still have a fear of public
speaking.
This is the part where people quit the course and say, Well, I don't like T.J. anymore.
I kind of liked him before, but I don't like him anymore.
Here's what I'm asking you to do.
I need you to practice your speech, pull out of your pocket a cell phone or any camera, and you've
got to record your speech and you've got to watch it.
Now, I know some of you are saying, T.J., I don't like the sound of my own voice or I don't like
the way I look or, you know, my hair is falling out or I'm getting jowls or my eyes are beating.
I've heard it all before.
I've felt it before, too.
Okay.
But here's the thing.
Everyone in your audience, whether it's a classroom or a thousand people at a trade association convention,
they're all going to have to hear your voice.
They're all going to have to watch you.
So if they're going to have to, you might as well know what they're seeing and hearing.
That's why it's critically important for you to practice on video.
I can tell you very few people do this.
It's emotionally hard to do, but it's not hard to do.
If this were a course on how to dunk a basketball or become a world class violinist or how to hit a
hole in one, those things are legitimately hard to do.
And if I promised you I could have you do that in a day, I'd be lying.
But this is different anyway.
If you have the ability to move your mouth and have sounds come out and someone else perceives it as
language, you can do what I'm asking you to do.
It doesn't even matter if you have your limbs or you can walk around.
As long as you can talk, you can do what I'm talking about.
So I need you to practice your speech.
You can lock yourself in a closet.
It doesn't have to be in public in front of a thousand people.
Practice your speech again.
Just pull out your cell phone, use a webcam and talk to it and record it.
Now, if you stop there, you haven't done any good whatsoever.
You have to watch the video.
When you watch the video, you have to take careful notes on what you like and what you don't like.
I can tell you right now, if you're like most people, you're going to hate most of it.
Join the club.
Most people can't stand the sound of their own voice, don't like the way they look.
I had a client once.
She started watching and listening to her own video and she started to cry.
Now, I was about to say what I normally do in those situations Hey, relax.
Nobody's 21 anymore and my hair is falling out.
I'm getting wrinkles.
Relax.
I was about to say that to her.
But then I realized I couldn't because she, in fact, was 21.
And you know what she was Miss Universe at the time had a fabulous voice beyond belief.
And was gorgeous, extraordinarily gorgeous.
She didn't like the way she sounded.
She didn't like the way she looked.
She claimed she'd never seen herself on video before.
So if you don't like everything about how you sound or everything about how you look, you are in good
company.
I can look at a video and say, Oh my gosh, more of my hair is falling out.
I'm getting more.
What happened to my chin?
I mean, we can all point to things we don't like on video.
It doesn't matter.
You have to do it in the same way.
You have to proofread and spell check a memo before you send somebody an email.
If it's an important business document, you're going to have to refine and edit your presentation.
Your presentation is not the PowerPoint slide.
It's not the typed word script, your presentation, your talk, your speech is you literally speaking.
So if you want to refine it or improve it, there is only one way to do it.
You have to record it on video.
Now, when I got into this business 30 years ago, video cameras were big.
They were expensive.
Few people had them.
And you arguably had an excuse to not video rehearse every single speech.
Those excuses are gone.
Everyone, at least in developed nations, is completely surrounded by video cameras.
Every cell phone, every tablet, every iPad, every laptop has a video camera.
So when you say, oh, I didn't get to it yet or I didn't get around to it, what you're really doing
is saying I'm very happy being nervous and fearful of public speaking and I don't want to get better.
That's what you're saying.
So I'm not letting you off the hook.
Don't kid yourself.
You've got to practice on video.
Now, if you practice on video once and take notes of what you like and don't like and stop, it's not
going to help you at all.
It's actually going to make you worse because that last image of yourself is going to be of this video
where all you can do is think of the 33 things you hate about yourself.
You have to then quickly, right away, as soon as you finish watching it stand up, or you could sit
down, speak again and record it again.
Don't try to solve every single problem.
Focus on 1 or 2 things you don't like and do less of it this time.
So if you saw yourself fidgeting a great deal the whole time with the ring on your finger, try to give
your same speech and not touch your ring finger.
Focus on 1 or 2 things at a time.
Watch the video, rate it again.
All the things in one column.
You didn't like, all the things in another column you did like.
And ideally the likes.
The likes get higher, the dislikes go lower until you get to the point where you actually like your
speech and you're confident that this is the way you want to come across.
This is the best you can be.
Again, think of it as I mentioned in an earlier lesson, you're getting ready to go to the office.
You it's a big meeting that day.
You're dressed exactly the way you want.
You've looked in the mirror, you've shaved, you've put on your makeup.
At that point, you're confident.
You look the best you can.
Look, you're no longer worried that, uh oh, it's my hair.
If I had hair, it's my hair standing up.
Is my tie crooked?
You know how you look.
So you're not nervous?
The exact same thing happens when it comes to practicing your speech on video.
You keep practicing and keep practicing until you can point to the screen and say, Wow, if I can be
as good as that guy or that woman, if I can sound like that and look like that, I'll be happy.
I'll be the star of my company or my industry or my school.
Now, you might be able to do that in one take.
It might take 100 takes.
Guess what?
Your audience doesn't care.
I don't really care either.
I mean, I'd like it to happen as quickly as possible, but all I care about is that you get to the
point where you know, you look your best, you know your sound your best.
At that point, it becomes incredibly difficult to be nervous because you know how you're coming across.
Now, I'm not nervous speaking to you right now.
This is a form of public speaking.
Thousands of people are likely to see this.
I'm not nervous, not because I'm convinced that I'm the absolute best speaker in the world or the best
looking person in the world.
That's not it.
It's just everything I'm saying to you now, I've said before on video and I've watched it, so I know
I can't come across any better than this.
I know how I look.
I know how I sound.
I know the speed of my voice.
So I'm not filled with any nervousness or anxiety.
I'm not second guessing myself.
And that's what makes me relaxed and that's what makes this fun.
Now, you might not ever get to the point where you think of public speaking as fun, but if you eliminate
all the uncertainty, the wondering about how you're coming across it makes it so much less stressful.
So again, you can ignore every single thing I say in this whole course.
If you follow this one tip, practice your speech on video until you like it.
If you do that, I guarantee your nerves will be gone.
Your fear of public speaking will be gone.
If you don't do that, you're on your own.

--- Cheat the System ---

Here's another tip for you If you want to have a lot fewer fears when it comes to speaking and giving
presentations, I want you to cheat.
That's right.
You heard me.
I want you to cheat.
So many people spend all this time of memorization, staying up late at night, going over and over
to try to memorize.
Why?
That's a lot of work.
Now, I'm not suggesting you sit there and read your whole speech or read bullet that puts everybody
to sleep and destroys eye contact.
But I do want you to have a cheat sheet.
By that I mean one and I mean literally one sheet of paper, preferably a half a sheet of paper that
has your notes.
I mean, this has everything I say for the entire course.
This is my outline.
You need an outline for your presentation.
By having it on a single sheet of paper, you don't have to pick it up and turn pages.
You can put it down on a lectern on a table next to where the glass of water is.
No one will know.
They'll think you're just so smart, so confident because you're speaking to them, but you're not memorizing
things.
You're following the outline.
But if you did what I asked you to do, which is narrow your presentation down to five points and have
a story, an example for each one, then you really shouldn't have more than about ten bullet points
on your piece of paper and take a few seconds to make the font large.
That way you don't have to stop, put on glasses and do kind of this.
You can just be walking by putting your glass of water down, glancing at it, and you can appear to
be supremely confident, knowledgeable and authoritative.
How many times have you seen a profile of some rising politician or CEO?
And it's obvious the journalist really liked the person.
And they say, and so-and-so spoke for an hour without notes, as if this makes the person a genius
and a confident genius.
Well, maybe they spoke without notes, but maybe they had notes the whole time.
But because they never touched them.
And they didn't stop and put their head down like that.
It wasn't noticeable to anyone.
I can tell you I give speeches, presentations all over the world, sometimes 30 minutes, 40 minutes,
sometimes a 90 minute keynote.
I never speak without notes, but no one ever has any idea because I limit it to a single sheet of paper
and I have large font and no one sees me touch it.
That is a secret that you can use and it will dramatically boost your confidence and it will elevate
you as a speaker in the eyes of your audience.
So please don't try to memorize stuff.
Put it on a one page outline.
And if you're saying, well, it doesn't fit on one page or I need more space, that means you don't
need more paper.
That means you need to be a better editor.
Narrow it down to your top five points and you'll be in much better shape and it will all fit on a single
sheet of paper in large font.

--- Practice Makes...Comfortable ---

If I asked you how did you meet your spouse or your significant other, do you think you could be nervous?
If I asked you what's your favorite TV show, your favorite food, or what your parents do, do you
even think you could be nervous?
Chances are no, because you've answered all those questions many, many times.
You know what the answer is?
You know what to say.
You know how to say it.
You're so familiar with it.
It'd be really hard to be nervous if you're just talking one on one to someone.
Well, speaking is like anything else.
The more you do it, the more familiar it becomes, the harder it is to be nervous.
You can be nervous.
Those of you older folks who are married can relate to this.
You can be nervous on a first date, but if you're sitting home alone on a Saturday night with someone
you've been married to for 30 years, you're probably not going to be nervous.
You might be feeling other things.
You may be blissfully happy, but you're probably not going to be filled with nervousness about the
idea of being alone with this person because you're familiar with it.
It's something you're used to.
Now.
If you only speak once every five years, you're going to be nervous.
But here's the thing about speaking every single day.
You're surrounded by opportunities to speak.
Now, don't get caught up in this distinction between a formal speech, a PowerPoint speech in front
of 10,000 people versus a talk or anything else.
I really mean just any time you're talking in front of more than one person, let's call that public
speaking, because it's not just an intimate, friendly conversation with one person.
All of us have opportunities all the time to speak.
If you are at a meeting, it could be a Monday morning staff meeting with 30 people present and you
normally never say anything.
Simply asking a question is a type of public speaking, and for most people, if you're nervous, just
raising your hand at a meeting creates some anxiety.
What I'm suggesting force yourself to do it.
Make one comment, one question any time you're in a meeting and it'll be easier the next time.
If you're at a conference and you see a keynote speaker, famous speaker perhaps, and there's 500 people
in the room, they may allow for questions.
Well, typically only seven people get up, be one of those seven people.
If you have a question for your boss and there's a staff meeting, don't wait till the end and ask privately.
Ask in front of everyone.
Maybe you wanted to be in a leadership position for your child's scouting troop or some other civic
activity, but you're afraid of the speaking aspect.
Force yourself to do that.
The more you speak, the better.
You may have an opportunity with your business or a civic group to create a YouTube video.
That's the perfect time to practice because you have complete control.
You can speak on that video.
Look at it.
If you don't like it, hit delete.
Just don't upload it.
But if, for example, you have a passion for raising money for the Cancer Society or the ALS Foundation,
then speak out.
It could be just in a video that you put on your own website, your own blog, your own Facebook page.
But it's more speaking.
The more you speak, the better you get, number one.
Number two, the harder it is to be nervous.
It's very difficult to be nervous about something you do on a regular basis.
So practice doesn't necessarily make perfect, but practice does dramatically reduce anxiety.

--- The Confident Speaker's Attitude ---

Your attitude towards public speaking really does have a profound effect.
So here's one tip for you.
Stop telling yourself, Oh, I have a fear of public speaking.
I have a speaking phobia.
I hate speaking.
I'm not good at speaking.
Just stop it already.
Stop with a pity party.
Okay.
Speaking is one of the few things in this world that is an important skill that anyone can do.
Not everyone can be a scratch golfer.
Not everyone can dunk a basketball.
Not everyone can be a world class violinist or ice skater.
But if you have the ability to have even one conversation that's coherent with one friend, you already
have all the skills you need to be not just an acceptable or okay public speaker, but a great public
speaker.
But your attitude does have an impact.
Now, there have been numerous studies, people who tell themselves constantly they're awful at math
actually get worse at math.
But there are plenty of things in life where simply saying, Oh, I'm great at this, I'm wonderful.
It doesn't really help you.
And I can go out to the golf course today and I can say, Well, I'm going to be better than Tiger Woods.
I'm going to hit hole in one after holding.
I can have a great attitude.
We'll get out on that course and I'm going to be hitting in the sand trap, in the lake, in the woods.
I'm going to shoot 180, and that's cheating.
So there are plenty of things in life where simply having a good attitude doesn't help.
Public speaking is different.
Public speaking is one of the few things in life are simply telling yourself, Hey, I like this, I'm
good at this.
It helps.
There's a crowd psychology that goes on.
One of the things that is remarkably true of all great speakers.
I don't care if you like their politics, what they stand for, their personality, but when you see
them speak, they exude the sense that they're having a great time.
They couldn't imagine this going any better.
Whether you loved Reagan, whether you like Bill Clinton speaking the thing they both and fair minded
people would say, they're both great speakers.
The one thing they have in common is you get the sense that they're having fun with this, that they
like this and that they're good at it and that they know they're good at it.
So it's not just as simple as fake it till you make it, but if you have a smile on your face and you
exude this sense of I like speaking, I like the fact that I'm in front of you people here today getting
to share with you the good things I'm doing and my organization is doing.
That rubs off in a very positive way.
People will perceive you as very confident and it'll just make the process fun for you.
And it's very, very difficult to get nervous or fearful of things that are fun for you or that you're
good at.

--- Long-term Speaking Goals and Conclusion ---

I hope you've taken away something from this public speaking course on how to reduce your fears and
anxieties.
I want to leave you with just a few basic things I want you to focus on.
For starters, have some actual goals for yourself as a speaker as far as how often you want to speak,
where you want to speak, that will really help you get better and better.
And the better you get at something, the harder it is to be fearful.
So try to find some places to speak and it could be non-threatening.
Toastmasters is a great place to practice because you're in front of other people.
They're not actual clients, customers, colleagues, bosses.
It's a great way to practice.
But I do fundamentally believe that you and anyone else can be a good public speaker, even a great
public speaker if you want to.
It requires absolutely no genetic talents or inborn talents.
It's something that anyone can learn how to do.
You may have heard of the real estate mogul Barbara Corcoran.
She now speaks all over the country.
Large keynote speaking fees.
She's on the TV show Shark Tank.
She essentially makes her living these days, speaking.
But very early in her career, she was asked to speak at a real estate convention.
She stood up in front of a thousand people.
She froze.
She panicked.
Nothing came out.
She ran off the stage.
And now look at her.
She sold her company and made a huge, huge fortune.
And now she speaks all over the world, promoting books, giving speeches, appearing on TV.
And she did about as poorly as you can do for a speech.
Freezing, panicking, running.
You really can't get much lower than that.
And now, look, I don't care how bad you think you are, how fearful you think you are, you can overcome
it.
You're not going to choke up and vanish and run away.
You can be like Barbara Corcoran, you can choke, but then you can come back and get better and better
and better.
The final thing I want to leave you with is you can ignore most of what I say.
In fact, you can ignore everything I say if you just follow this one tip.
Practice your speeches, practice your presentations on this, on your cell phone, on any video camera
until you like it.
If you do that, I absolutely guarantee you your fears of public speaking will be eliminated.
Good luck.

--- Never Confuse Personal Phone Use with Business Telephone Use Again ---

So why is there a need for this course?
People have been using phones their whole life these days.
Five year olds use phones.
What's the difference for business?
Well, let me tell you, there's a huge difference between how you use a phone in business, your work
life versus your personal life.
There are a lot of things that are perfectly acceptable to do with friends, family.
But if you do it in a business situation, you will lose clients, you will lose customers, you will
lose promotions.
So let's clearly define what we're talking about here.
This is not how to call your best friend and say, let's go to a party.
This is about how to use the phone for business and really understanding the differences, what's appropriate
and what isn't.
If you call your best friend and you don't leave a message, you know they're going to see you call,
they'll call you back.
Doesn't matter.
But if a very important prospect or client calls you and it goes to your cell phone and you then call
back and you don't leave a message, they have no idea it's you.
They may have had 10 or 20 other calls come in.
They're not going to go through and see what number corresponds to what.
So if they think you didn't return their call, they're going to think you don't care.
You don't want their business, you don't want the job.
So again, clear cut example what can work?
Calling your best friend or a family member can mean absolute career destruction if you do the same
thing when it comes to how you use the phone in your business life.
So these are the things we're going to cover in this course of really learning this division.
I'm not telling you, you have to use my system for every call in your personal life.
You don't.
And you don't have to use the techniques I'm going to advocate in every single situation in your business
life.
But when in doubt, I believe these are the basic principles that will help you the most and eliminate
the chances that you've needlessly offended someone.
Confused a client, customer, prospect, boss or coworker.
These are the principles that will protect you the most and help you advance your message, your agenda,
your business, and your career.

--- Why Your Phone is the Best Secret Business App Ever ---

We need to start off by recognizing the unique power of the phone and therefore the human voice.
That's what the phone is good for, conveying the human voice.
And there are a lot of things that are distinct about that.
When you call someone, it shows a certain level of importance.
It's not just a quick email, it's not just a quick text.
The phone is uniquely valuable for communicating things that are of extreme importance.
I want this job.
We want you to hire us.
We are firing you.
You've had a loved one who has died.
I mean, nobody wants to get an email or a text saying, Will you marry me or your child has died or
your father has died.
It's considered too impersonal.
That's the beauty of the telephone.
It's much, much more personal.
It's a way of putting a spotlight on a message that you think is important.
It's a way for other people to communicate important things to you.
And that's why you're going to pay attention.
And I'm going to give you some techniques for really making sure it sticks with you.
But it's also why you're going to use the phone to communicate important things.
Think about your own workday.
How many emails do you get in an average day versus an average week?
Now think about how many phone calls do you get?
If you're like me or most people, you probably get 100 emails, maybe 1000 emails for every phone call.
What stands out more?
Now you can say you don't like phone calls or it's annoying, but if you're trying to do a serious,
important part of business, get a new client.
There's nothing like a phone call from a new client who says, Yes, we want to work with you, send
over the contract.
Much more powerful than just an email.
So always be thinking about not just how to use the phone, but when it is appropriate.
There are times when a simple email or text will be fine, but for important information, serious stuff,
things critical to your business mission, things critical to your most important customers, clients,
prospects, your bosses.
That's when, if you can't meet in person, the phone is the next best thing.

--- Planning Your Successful Phone Environment ---

When you have an important phone call to make or you'll be receiving one, or if it's an important conference
call, it's important to plan in advance, plan out your environment to increase the odds that this
is going to be an effective phone call.
For starters, you need to eliminate distractions.
Find a quiet place.
If you're talking to your most important client or you're pitching the most important prospect and you're
in a noisy pit of an office and there are conference rooms that are quiet at the other end of the hallway,
well, plan in advance and go down there before you make the call or before the call starts with someone
calling you.
You want as quiet an environment as possible.
Now, in some offices or if it's a home office, you may have music on and that may relax you, it may
be soothing, you may enjoy it.
That's all wonderful.
That's fantastic.
Guess what?
Nobody else cares about what you like for your workday.
If you're calling someone or someone's calling you, all they care about is their message, their ideas,
what's going on in their business, their life, their part of the job.
So eliminate distractions.
One reason you want to make it quiet is if you have to talk over some loud noise that's annoying to
listen to when you're talking over a loud noise, for example, while driving a car, you're flattening
your voice out, you're making yourself monotone and it kind of feels from the other end like they're
being yelled at.
Nobody likes someone yelling at them.
You're yelling because you need to hear yourself over traffic noise.
Other distractions.
But to the person on the other end of the phone, all they know is you're yelling at them.
They can intellectually realize, well, just in a noisy street or noisy restaurant, but emotionally
it's still I'm yelling at them and it's not positive.
Let's talk about driving.
I understand we're all busy.
We all have busy lives.
We're all so important.
We all multitask.
Here's the thing.
If you're trying to have an important phone call and you really want someone to pay attention, don't
be driving.
Now, I understand there are times someone's trying to sell you new aluminum siding and you're not sure
you're even interested.
Yeah, you can tell that person to call you on your drive home.
And if you're only giving half way attention, it's not that big a deal.
It's not going to affect your business because you're not the one selling aluminum siding.
But when it comes to your business, what you're trying to sell, what you're trying to advance, what
you're trying to promote with your vendors, customers, clients, prospects, investors.
Eliminate the distractions.
Because when you're driving, there are several things that happen.
There's the the hum of the car.
You can have the most fantastic quick electric Tesla.
There's going to be all the other sounds going by from other cars, highway sounds honking.
So that's distracting to the person on the other end.
It's also distracting to you.
The other problem is your brain is seeing all this information.
You have to pay attention or you will die.
So you're giving much less attention to the person speaking to you.
So I realize it's tempting.
And if someone wants to start a conference call at 5:00 and you'd like to be on the road, then going
home, the tendency is just to get in your car a minute early and take the call in the car.
Don't do it when it's important.
Stay away from driving.
Stay away from noise.
Try not to be outside.
Hey, it's a beautiful sunny day.
Why don't I take it outside?
The birds are singing.
Well, that's the problem.
The birds are singing.
There are too many distractions also within your office.
If you really, really are trying to focus on the person, get what they're talking about, be as responsive
as possible.
I'd go as far as turning off your computer.
Do what I just did.
I don't want to be distracted right now.
I literally turn my phone off.
I've got to use another phone, obviously.
But if I'm using an office phone.
Turn my cell phone off.
That way, if I get texts from friends about what to do Saturday night, I'm not looking down at that
while talking on another phone.
It's not distracting.
The final thing and some of you are going to hate me for this, but I'm going to give you my best advice
you can do with it what you want.
If you really want to plan your environment the right way for making phone calls, don't ever use the
speakerphone.
What are you talking about?
We do all of our conference calls on speakerphone.
And how else are people going to hear?
Here's the problem with speakerphone.
The microphone is going to clip certain words.
Can'ts become cans.
There's confusion.
It's harder for people to understand you, number one.
Number two, you have to project your voice.
So you're kind of talking like this and you're projecting and you sound like the school teacher.
It makes you kind of monotone flat.
You can sound angry.
It also tires you out.
Frankly, it takes a lot more energy to project.
If you're talking to a speaker on a conference table, three feet, four feet, in some cases ten feet
away.
And it's.
It's going to really cut down on the audio quality.
Frankly, nobody likes it when someone's talking on a speakerphone, whether it's a big fancy speakerphone
system in an office or just the speakerphone on your cell phone.
Again, there are exceptions.
You're trying to learn how to cook something and you're talking to a family member and you're in the
kitchen.
You need both hands.
I understand it.
I get it.
But when you're talking to people on business, they don't like it because the audio quality is worse.
It's harder to hear.
And the back of their mind, they're thinking, well, what's this person doing?
Are they still typing?
Are they reading the newspaper?
What do they need their hands for?
Many, many people interpret it, whether intellectually or just emotionally as a sign of disrespect.
If you're on the speakerphone now, it raises the question, well, what do you do if there's five people
in your office and everyone needs to hear, well, use a free conference call system, everyone can
dial in and they can be on their phone in a different room, or you could even be on a phone, each
person individually in the same room and hear it.
Another option you can do is have it on speakerphone.
If there are, five of your colleagues will have to listen to a boss or a client or a colleague.
But then when someone in your room is speaking, pick up the receiver and talk because everyone in the
room can still hear.
But the quality of the audio for the person on the other end will be vastly superior.
Remember, most microphones in phones are built for maximum effectiveness.
If you're just inch and a half, maybe two inches away, when you're further away, it really distorts
the audio quality.
So plan your environment to increase your odds of effective communication before the phone call ever
starts, whether you're sending a call, initiating one or receiving one.

--- Final Preparation for Your Successful Phone Meetings ---

In addition to planning your environment in advance before important phone calls, conference calls,
video conferences, it's important to plan everything else you might need because your client, your
customer or your boss might be highly impatient.
They don't want to wait for you to go through a whole bunch of files or have to dig out something or
get up and go to a file cabinet somewhere.
They want it right now.
So if you've got any papers or documents you're going to be referring to during the phone call, the
conference call, the Skype, have it all laid out on your desk.
Additionally, there's nothing like a good old fashioned pad and pen for taking notes during these calls.
And so you think, well, you know, TJ, you old guy, look at that gray hair.
Nobody uses pad and pen anymore.
I'll just type.
Here's the problem with typing.
When people hear you typing, it's distracting and there's a part of you part of them wondering, what's
this person typing?
Are they doing other business while they're talking to me?
Are they chatting with friends on Facebook?
Are they texting friends saying, You can't believe this idiot?
I'm talking to you on the phone now?
It's just distracting.
This way, whether you have a headset or you're having to hold a phone, you've got one free hand,
a pen or a pencil and take detailed notes.
Anything else you need if you're going to be showing slides through any form of a screen sharing using
Zoom.
Skype.
Have everything ready.
Respect the time of the people you're speaking to in business.
Doesn't matter if it's a co-worker, someone junior to you in another office.
Respect their time, they will respect you and it's going to ultimately benefit as far as boosting your
own reputation.
So plan.
Get everything you need all together in advance of the call.

--- Making Sure Your Phone Passes Your Friend Test ---

You need to know exactly how your technology works.
I don't mean you literally have to open the back of the phone and figure out where every little electronic
device connects.
But you do need to know the basics of what the most effective way is to use your phone.
My recommendation is call a friend.
In this case, it could be a family member and ask them how do I sound and talk to it an inch away,
inch and a half, two inches and on and give get feedback from them on what actually sounds the best
because every phone can be a little bit different.
Your voice can be a little different.
You need to know what is the best way to use your phone.
As far as the distance from the microphone, I can tell you right now, the best way is not going to
be two feet away with on speakerphone.
We've already talked about that.
I hope I've convinced you not to use speakerphone other than extreme situations where you absolutely
have to have both hands free.
A couple of other things that are relatively modern problems with respect to phones, especially for
those of you who get new cell phones frequently, as I do, I had recently upgraded from one iPhone
to the next, went to the same company that always sold me the phone.
I asked for a protective cover.
I got the protective cover, and all of a sudden I'm noticing about a third of the people I'm speaking
to are saying, Huh?
What?
Huh?
They couldn't hear me.
I kept on thinking it was because it was a new phone.
It needed an update.
Well, no.
The company that sold me the phone and sold me the protective cover, sold me the wrong version of a
cover so it fit the right size.
But it was for the previous edition and the version they gave me covered one of the three microphones
on the phone.
So it was destroying the audio quality.
I'm ashamed to say it took me a couple of months to finally figure this out.
Very important.
When people tell you they're having trouble hearing you, believe them, do whatever it takes to make
sure you're coming across clear.
That's why I recommend testing.
That's why I recommend instantly trying to troubleshoot, change things.
Make sure you don't have a cover that's obscuring one of the microphones.
So this is your first homework assignment.
Call family friend.
A colleague could be someone in the next cubicle and ask them to tell you to give you honest feedback.
How does it sound?
Do you sound muffled?
Is there anything unclear?
How is the volume really get feedback and if there's any problem at all, let's figure out the solution
right now.
So please don't just fast forward to the next video.
Take two seconds and call somebody and let's really get an assessment.
Figure out how close you need to be to your phone and if there are any other problems with the microphone
on your phone or if there's anything covering it.

--- Planning for Winning Conference Calls ---

A great way to connect with team members who live and work in different cities, different countries
or clients spread out around the world is a conference call.
Here are some tips on how to make the most out of your conference calls.
Now we've already covered.
Please don't use a speakerphone.
You're going to get tired of me saying that some of you will write in the reviews you talked about not
using speaker phones and yet people still do it.
I want to give you some other tips.
Realize a conference call is a business meeting and it deserves the same amount of planning and respect.
Of any other meeting.
Too often people just, Oh, let's just hop on and have a conference call and chew it out yet.
They wouldn't ask people to drive across town and spend an hour meeting with no agenda.
So the first item on your checklist should be have an agenda.
Know exactly what you want to come across with, what you want to accomplish in any conference call.
Have some structure to it.
It'll come across much more effective.
Also, realize if other people are talking to you in other cities, they likely are going to be on a
speakerphone because we can't control them.
If they're multiple people in the same room because of that, it's going to be harder for you to hear.
Sometimes two people will talk at once.
They'll be cross talk.
It'll be much harder.
So you've got to actively listen.
And on the one hand, you don't want to interrupt, but you do want to interrupt quickly.
If you did not hear something, if you didn't understand something.
So what I would recommend is relatively loudly saying, excuse me, I couldn't hear the last 20s the
audio dropped out or I couldn't hear because of the crosstalk.
Could you please repeat?
You do it like that, it's not going to seem like rude interrupting.
And people will actually appreciate the fact that you're trying to get the ideas conveyed and that you're
trying to really understand them.
Now, sometimes conference calls can get long and before you know it, you're checking email.
I've done it before myself.
You're checking Facebook.
Don't do it.
Really Focus.
Listen carefully.
Be thinking, visualizing what the person is talking about.
Ask questions when there's a pause, when there's a time.
You don't want to be interrupting people on the phone, whether it's a conference call or any other
call.
But when they've said something and you're thinking about it, it is appropriate to summarize, to paraphrase,
to make sure you're getting it.
Show them you're listening.
Show them that you're understanding.
So you do periodically want to paraphrase summarize.
I'd also highly recommend taking detailed notes.
We talked about that in the previous lecture.
Take notes of any important phone call for business, whether it's a conference call or anything else.
But here's something most people don't do, but it will make your conference calls much more effective.
Not only take your notes, but then summarize the meeting from your perspective, summarize what you
think everyone is supposed to do after that, and email it to all the participants.
Whether that's your official job, whether anyone asked you to do that or not.
Everyone will be impressed.
Bosses, colleagues.
Customers.
Clients.
You know who else this helps you?
We're all human beings.
We all forget things.
So the sheer act of writing it down and then typing it, proofing it and then hitting send email will
make all the key ideas from that conference call really sink into you much more firmly.
This will help.
It's a little extra work, but not much.
So please give it a try.

--- Look Prime Time Ready for Your Video Calls ---

These days.
A phone isn't just a phone.
It's a modern mini TV studio, which means you can make phone calls using video.
There's FaceTime video, there's Skype.
There's all sorts of different applications.
I'm not here to try to promote any one brand.
But what I do want you to do is to think about how you can come across your most effective way possible
when you are speaking to someone over the phone and you're using video.
There's so much more information conveyed.
When there is video, people can see your face.
They can see whether you have bags under your eyes and look like you haven't slept.
They can detect more about your emotional state, so it is much more powerful.
I certainly prefer to speak to people through a live Skype video or a WebEx so I can connect with them
or I can see them.
They can see me.
You might not prefer that.
It might not be used that often in your corporate culture or your organization.
Your clients might not like it, but if you do have the opportunity, it's a very powerful tool.
I mentioned in the very first video of this whole course, a couple of tips about the angle again,
what makes so many people look bad and the reason they don't like video is they are afraid they're going
to look awful, stupid, bad.
And if you hold your cell phone down here and it's shooting up your nose, horrible lighting, it is
going to look bad.
So I want to give you some techniques.
If you're going to use a cell phone or any mobile device for a video phone, ways of looking a lot better.
For starters, have the phone a couple of inches above your eyes.
Now you can even put this on a bookshelf.
And you're standing and you just walk a few feet away.
Or if you're sitting down, put it on a stack of books on your desk and aim it that way.
If all else fails, just hold it like this.
Yeah, your arm might get tired, but if it's only three minutes, big deal.
Not suggesting you hold it like this for two hours.
You want to have more light in front of you than behind you.
I'm not suggesting you take all day long and come up with some elaborate lighting grid.
What I am suggesting is just look around your room.
If you're at your desk and there's a window behind you and it's a sunny day and you're holding the camera
in front of you and the window is behind you, it's going to look awful because the light is so bright
coming from outdoors and your face is going to get all darkened out.
What I'd recommend.
Just turn around, have the light from the window hitting your face and your your recording from the
opposite direction.
In general, as long as you have more light on your face, more light going this way, instead of coming
from behind you, you'll look fine for any kind of telephone call, Skype conference, video conference
with people.
Now we're back to the whole issue of audio, because if you're holding your phone like this, you're
further away in most cases using earbuds, the the microphone and headset that comes with a lot of phones,
older iPhones, The mic is pretty good on that.
So you can just use that if you're going to be doing a lot of phone conferencing through video, I would
recommend you do what I do.
And again, I'm not selling any brand today, but I just use a simple lav mic.
I can plug it onto my shirt jacket, tie.
It cost about 20 bucks from Amazon or any other electronic store.
So you plug it in.
It's much more of a professional looking mic, professional sounding mic.
It'll plug into a phone or whatever device you're using.
You really want to take it up a notch.
Now I do this more with my computer and iPad if I'm doing Skype, but I actually use an earpiece That
way I don't have to use the earbuds if I'm using an iPhone.
This is just like what a professional broadcaster uses.
This clicks on to the back.
And then goes around into my ear and you don't see it.
So it looks very professional again.
This costs like 20 bucks on Amazon and simple earpiece and it's very effective.
You can do it for phones.
You can use it for iPads, any other computer.
So these are some of the basics you need to think about when it comes to using video phone calls.
The other big problem for most people is because they're self-conscious, because they're nervous about,
oh, how am I going to look?
People freeze.
So if you have the best message, well, thank you, sir.
We would love to do business with you.
We can do wonders for the marketing of company X, Y, Z.
The message might be fine, but would you want to do business with that person?
I don't think so.
Because I looked scared stiff, bored and boring.
So the biggest thing to remember when you're doing any kind of video telephone conference is you have
to move.
You have to move your face.
You have to move your head.
You need to move your body.
And yes, you even need to move your hands.
Now, your hands don't have to be visible to the person seeing you.
It may be much tighter shot than how you're seeing me now, but the sheer fact that you're moving your
hands means you're much more likely to be moving your body, your head, your face, your eyebrows,
and you'll look like a real human being.
That's the key.
It's not about being beautiful or perfect or glamorous.
It's just about not looking like a scared, stiff frozen robot.
That's what makes people scared.
Afraid to do video.
Also, really, keep in mind the professionalism of what's behind you.
I have here, this is what I do when I'm doing a Skype video conference.
This is just a white PowerPoint slide on a TV screen.
You don't have to be that fancy.
But if you're on the road, if you're doing a Skype video conference call and you're at a conference
and you're in a hotel room, don't show an unmade bed behind you.
It's just distracting, looks unprofessional.
And sometimes it's simply a matter of sitting on the bed and you're now showing the wall behind you
and no one can see the bed.
So really look at it.
See how other people see you on this video call.
Because if there's anything distracting, I've seen people doing even videos here on Udemy where behind
them you see all kinds of liquor bottles and stuff and you're thinking, Wow, I wonder what this person
likes to party.
All these distractions.
It's okay to have a professional office, a lamp photo, something like that.
Books are fine if you're in a library, but just give it some thought because human beings are easily
distracted by any visual.
That's more interesting than looking at the face.
Give it thought and I think what you'll find is video conference calls can be the most effective form
of using the phone of all once you get comfortable with it.

--- Placing Phone Calls Like the Consummate Professional ---

Sanjay there?
Can I speak to Sanjay?
That's not how you make a phone call.
Let's go over some basics now of when you are the one placing the call in a business setting.
For starters, you need to sound pleasant.
No one wants to deal with someone angry, grumpy, rushed.
You might be having a bad day.
Nobody else cares.
So for starters, you need to have a pleasant tone of voice.
I don't mean Mr. Happy.
Ha ha ha.
Have a nice day.
I don't mean anything fake, cheesy, but just a pleasant tone of voice.
And then you need to cover a few basics.
You need to state your name, your organization, why you're calling.
Hi, my name is T.J. Walker with Media Training Worldwide.
I'm calling Jan to follow up on the request for a proposal she asked me about last week regarding media
training for the organization.
Is she available today?
It takes less than 20s.
But I've covered the basics so I don't force the receptionist or some other administrative assistant
or anyone else to go through.
Well, who is this and why is your call?
Why are you calling?
Can I tell the person who you're with?
I made it all simple, clear, and I'm sending a signal.
I don't know who I'm talking to.
It could be an intern.
It could be the CEO of a company.
I'm sending a signal that I'm a professional person, that I'm respectful of the people on the other
end of the phone.
And I like to be treated respectfully, too.
So it sounds obvious.
It sounds basic, but so few people do it.
They just say, May I speak to so-and-so?
And it can be abrupt.
Now if you're calling and you're getting the person directly.
If all you do is say, well, is Jane there?
And you're now talking to Jane, she may be thinking, well, I don't recognize the number.
Who is this?
I could just say I'm busy.
Not a good time.
What are you going to do then, if you've stated exactly who you are?
Maybe she was expecting your call, didn't recognize the number.
Maybe she's happy to speak to someone from your organization about this issue, even though she didn't
know you were going to call.
So state exactly who you are, why you're calling, where you're from.
Let's start off with the basics.
I know it sounds obvious, but it's often not done.

--- Always Knowing the Best Time to Call Clients and Prospects ---

Hey, Samantha, this is TJ Walker from Media Training Worldwide.
I'm just following up on the email you sent earlier today asking for a proposal for presentation skills
training.
Is this a good time to speak now for five minutes or so?
Ask the person if this is a good time.
It's basic courtesy.
It might not be a good time, but an hour from now might be ask.
It's great information shows your respectful.

--- Now You will Never Wake Up a Client in the Middle of the Night ---

When you're placing calls to clients, prospects, colleagues, you need to be keenly aware of where
they are in the world these days.
Even one person.
Businesses are international.
You can have clients from any country, any time zone in the world.
You don't want to call someone.
It goes to their cell phone and wakes them up at three in the morning, even though it's three in the
afternoon in your office.
So be aware.
If you're not sure, then just go to Google and type in time and that city.
It'll tell you what time it is.
Obviously, if some prospect calls, leaves a message at seven in the morning, you don't know where
they're calling from and you can't call back until ten.
No one's going to really fault you for that if they haven't alerted you as to where they are.
And you can't know for any other reason.
But if it's an existing client, customer or prospect who tells you what city they're in or what country
they're in, you need to be aware of time zones.
You also need to be aware of their normal workweek.
Some of my clients in the Middle East, they take off Friday and Saturday.
So if I call beyond 8 a.m. my time Thursday morning, I've already hit their weekend, so that's being
rude to them.
So you need to be aware of that.
Other clients of mine, even in the Middle East, they have the same Saturday Sunday days off that we
have here in the United States.
So don't assume it's something you can check in about two seconds on Wikipedia or Google, but the less
you're returning someone's call or calling them for the first time, hitting them on the weekend, the
better.
It's common sense on the one hand.
But if you're not used to dealing with people internationally, it's not quite so common there.
Also, we'll talk about this in the voicemail section, some cultural differences with respect to voicemail.
There are some cultures where it's not just the young people, it's people of any age.
Just don't use voicemail.
You might find it annoying.
If you want to do work in that culture, you'll have to deal with it.
You'll be better off sending an email, perhaps a text if you're calling and you do like I do and you
do a lot of calls through Skype, they're not going to see your number or figure it out.
So you've got to figure out some other way of letting them know you called or you reached out to them
because they won't see just by what pops up on the phone.

--- Answering the Phone so Everybody Knows You are Ready for Business ---

Hello.
What do you want?
Obviously, that's not how you answer the phone.
Now, there are different customs and different organizations.
What I think is the easiest for most people to do is just state their name and their organization.
Someone calls me, doesn't matter what time of day or night, because I do use my personal phone.
I have different phone numbers, but I use my personal phone, same as my office phone.
I have things forwarded to this and unless I see it's from a friend or family member, I'll just answer.
TJ Walker Media Training Worldwide.
This does a couple of things.
If I just say TJ Walker and someone went to my website and they didn't see my name anywhere, they just
wanted to call and ask for proposal for media training or public speaking training.
If I just say TJ Walker, they're going to be confused.
They're going to wonder if they messed up.
Did they dial someone wrong number?
Did they bother someone by saying the organization?
It makes it easy for the person calling me.
So I do recommend you state your name and your organization.
Now, some people highly recommend you say, How may I help you?
I don't do that.
It's not wrong if you want to.
I don't think it's essential.
The main thing is you want to sound pleasant.
You may be in a tense conversation with another colleague.
You may have just been fired.
You may be in a bad mood.
You may have a stomachache.
Nobody else cares.
A prospect calling you doesn't care.
A colleague on the other side of the planet doesn't care.
They just want to talk to you now.
So be pleasant.
Put a pleasant tone of voice on not super fake, fancy syrupy, but just a pleasant tone of voice.
And that let someone know, okay, I'm here for you.
That's all it takes when you're answering the phone.

--- Your Clients Will Never Think You are Screaming At Them Again ---

Why I can't hear you, you're looking for what kind of to see how annoying that is.
Here's the lesson.
Don't answer your phone if you're in a really noisy, loud place.
Restaurants can be noisy, nightclubs can be noisy.
Far better to see your phone calls coming in.
Let it go to voicemail and then excuse yourself.
Go outside, go to a quiet place, return the call five minutes later when it's quiet.
This way you can have a normal tone of voice.
You may have a client prospect calling you.
It's 3:00 in the afternoon for them, but it's nine p.m. for you.
You're it and you're off duty.
It's a nightclub.
You're maybe having a good time having a glass of wine or two.
Don't show that side of your life your reality to the client or prospect at that moment.
Find a quiet place.
Wait till you're in a quiet place before you take the call.
You don't not to be shouting over music, over background sound, over the loud clatter of people.
If you're too noisy restaurant, you want quiet when you're taking most of the time.
Of course, there could be exceptions where it's a client you're dealing with.
It's a very intense crisis situation.
You're going back and forth.
They have to get a hold of you instantly.
You've already talked a dozen times a day.
Yeah, maybe you pick up instantly no matter where you are, but otherwise you don't want to expose
someone the first time talking to you and they're hearing you shouting.
It just does not make a good impression at all.
So don't do that.
Speaking of good impressions, if you're out, everybody deserves to relax in their own way.
But if you had a couple of glasses of wine, you're a nice, loud, fun place.
My recommendation just don't take the cold.
Return the call tomorrow because you may think you're perfectly fine, but if you have even a five percent
slurring your speech, that might make a permanent negative impression on a client, customer or boss.
So make sure that you're not doing anything to expose yourself to criticism when you're taking calls
after hours.

--- Knowing How to Sound Your Very Best - Every Time ---

So you've initiated the call.
You're on the call.
How do you really come across your best?
I gave you a few tips earlier, and I want to reinforce those now.
For starters, have a pleasant tone of voice.
No one wants to talk to a grumpy person.
Actually, I know it sounds ridiculous and cheesy, but actually smiling when you're talking on the
phone will help.
You'll have a more pleasant tone.
And don't ask me why, but somehow it works.
And if you even look at a mirror of yourself smiling, you'll have a more pleasant tone standing.
You'll sound better.
You'll be able to breathe more fully.
You'll be able to gesture more.
You'll be able to resonate more.
So standing when you talk can actually help.
It's not essential.
But if you want to give yourself that final 1% extra, it can be incredibly helpful when you're talking
to a client.
Customer prospect.
Don't ever make them feel rushed.
I understand there may be times when you are rushed.
You can always apologize and in a non rushed way say, I apologize.
I have to leave now to catch a plane to come see you for the meeting tomorrow.
Give a reason, but otherwise let them talk.
Don't rush.
Also don't hop right in.
If you're talking to someone who is an existing client, customer prospect or a boss and you already
know them, it can be seen as too rude, too abrupt.
Have a little small talk, ask how they're doing.
If it's a beautiful day where you are, say how beautiful it is and ask how their day is.
Now if you sense they're incredibly rushed or they're one of these people who always wants to get in
and out and off the phone as quickly as possible.
You can dispense with the small talk, but if you're not certain, it's better to just spend 30s 60s
on some pleasantries before hopping into the main purpose of your call.
It's got to be proportional if it's really just one quick question from a colleague in the Cleveland
office.
Sure.
Call up, ask, get it and get on.
But if it is a client, a colleague, someone else you report to, and you know, you're going to have
to talk to them for ten minutes.
And you haven't talked in a few days.
Well, 30s 60s.
It's proportionate.
It's only one tenth of the ten minute phone call, so try to have some small talk next.
How are you coming across?
And by that, do I mean that you're using a lot of fillers when you're uncomfortable?
This comes out when you're talking to clients, prospects, bosses.
When people are uncomfortable, they're thinking, what do I say?
And that's when the fillers, the AHS, the ums, the ERs, the nos, the SOS, come out again and again
and again.
My recommendation record yourself and listen to it.
That's the homework assignment.
I've been very light on homework in this course, so don't complain about the level of homework.
But this is not the sort of class where it really helps to just do multiple choice tests and write a
bunch of sentences.
You need to hear yourself speaking on the phone.
So the homework is, I need you to call somebody, have a conversation, get a second cell phone, or
use your laptop or iPad to record just your part of the conversation.
Doesn't matter what the other person does.
And I need you to really count your us, your ums, your ers, the your nose and see.
Are you coming across well beyond that?
Do you come across as somewhat interesting?
Do you like the quality of your voice?
Do you sound fully conversational or do you sound like you're reading a script?
Nobody wants to sound like a script reader and nobody wants to listen to someone who sounds like they're
reading a script.
How many of us get phone calls sometimes daily, from some sort of a telemarketer and you can tell it
takes less than a second.
To tell when someone's reading.
We all have built into us this instinctive ability to detect when someone's reading to us on the phone.
You don't want to sound like you're reading.
And by the way, this applies to conference calls.
Any kind of call, I do not recommend you ever read on the phone to someone.
They can figure it out.
They can hear it.
Of course, there are exceptions.
If you are doing a quarterly conference call and you are the CFO for a publicly traded company and you
have to read legal boilerplate or your lawyers say you're going to prison, by all means read.
But realize at that moment you're not trying to really communicate.
You're just checking a box for any other time.
When you're talking to someone and you've initiated the call especially.
You want to just talk?
You want to be conversational.
So I need you to record yourself having a conversation, ideally work related with another colleague,
perhaps a friend, a buddy, a peer, an equal, and just talk to them as if you were talking to a client.
Record it, listen to it, figure out what you like, what you don't like.
That's the homework.
Do it right now.

--- Being a Professional to Every Generation, Regardless of Your Own Preferences ---

Okay.
I've been holding off on this part of the course.
Now, I got to let it all hang out here and be totally candid with you.
There are, in fact, some generational issues when it comes to how the phone is used.
Different people of different generations use the phone differently.
I'm not here to advocate for any one generation.
No one generation is better than the other.
It's just different.
But here's the thing.
If you are in business or running a business or an employee in a business, with very few exceptions,
you're going to try to appeal to people of all sorts of generations.
If you're in a bigger organization, there may be people from 16 to 80 working in your organization.
If you have any kind of a business, it could be manufacturing designer t shirts.
Yeah, maybe most of your customers are 22 years old, but you might have some that are 75 years old
buying something for their grandchild.
Why needlessly alienate any customer or any prospect?
So I'm advocating that you essentially become multilingual, fluent in generation speak when it comes
to dealing with the telephone.
And different people are bad at different things.
Believe me.
I know people my age and older people who are pitching and screaming for ten years, refusing to use
text.
Well, if a client sends you a text question, you should text back the answer.
So that's the fault of people my age and older who were grumpy stick in the muds, not open to new things.
That was a problem that hurt them in business communication.
Because let's face it, these days, you could be 62 years old and have a 28 year old boss in some corporations,
that 28 year old sends you a text at 3 p.m. They're going to want a text answer response if they're
in another city or another location or maybe even down the hall, they don't necessarily want you to
get up or walk all the way down there or send them a big memo or call them.
They just want a text back.
So I want you to realize I'm not here as just the grumpy old man criticizing the young ones.
Old people can be very guilty of not adapting to new technology and new uses of the phone.
A lot of older people can say, Oh, I don't want to do Skype video or Zoom because let me tell you,
they're nervous about the fact that their hair is falling out and they've got wrinkles and jowls.
So every age group has certain blind spots.
So now that I've gotten that over the way, let's talk about a big problem with a lot of young people
in the workplace.
Again, we talked at the very beginning of this course about the difference between private life, social
life and business life.
I know a lot of people.
I have young nieces and nephews where if I were to call them, it would be considered just a ridiculous,
absurd breach of etiquette, almost obnoxious.
If I were to leave a voicemail message beyond the pale, it will not be listened to and it will not
be returned.
And we get along perfectly fine.
We have fine relationships.
It's just that's not how people of a certain generation 18, 19, 20 like to communicate as there are.
Of course there are exceptions.
And of course I'm making some generalizations here, but I'm just trying to be helpful.
There are certain people of certain generations where you just don't answer the phone.
It's just not something you do.
You see someone called and that's kind of a reminder to send them a text or you're going to bump into
them later, but you just don't answer the call.
Well, if you do that in business, you may be fine.
If absolutely every single person you deal with, every investor, every client, every customer is
your age group, too.
But how often does that really happen?
If you have clients, customers, colleagues, investors, other people calling you, pick up the phone,
answer it.
If you're in a critically important meeting, obviously don't.
But if you're not doing something wildly important that takes 100% of your attention, answer the phone.
People hate it when they can never get a hold of a count representative or a marketing director that's
supposed to be in charge of their campaign.
They hate it.
They absolutely can't stand it if they're, let's say, over 40 or a certain age, younger people may
think, no problem, I'll send a text.
You have to realize everyone is different.
And if you're dealing with a customer client prospect, they expect you to bend to them.
If they're the ones writing a check, if they're the ones paying you in the form of being a customer
or a client or a boss, they expect you to bend to them.
They don't really care the way you want to communicate.
Sorry if that sounds cynical.
I just think that's human nature and we have to reflect that.
It's selfish for you to expect people to bend to your needs again.
If it's your company and you want to run it the way you want to and you don't really care if you alienate
people, then by all means don't change.
But the first thing I really want to stress is you've got to answer the phone.
That leads us to the next topic voicemail.
And there are generational issues here, too, but there are people who are guilty of all ages on bad
voicemail etiquette that in the next lecture.

--- Best Voicemail Messages for Success ---

When you're leaving a voicemail, it's critically important you do the following things.
For starters, state your name, your organization, and the purpose of your call.
Speak a little bit slower than normal and articulate.
Not in a big fake phony way, but articulate a little more clearly than usual.
Give your phone number once and then give it a second time, even a little bit slower.
If you do that, you'll come across professional.
You'll make it easy for people to get back to you.
And the person you're calling you may think knows you by heart, but they may know ten other people
with your name.
So unless you have a really distinctive name, state your full name.
I mean your first or your last name.
At least you don't have to state your middle name, but state your first and last name the organization,
make it clear for them.
And if it's any kind of a call where you're not certain the person's going to want to call you back
right away, perhaps a prospect dangle something interesting.
I don't mean cheesy or, you know, call me if you want to get rich in the next 24 hours.
I'm not suggesting you do anything overtly manipulative and cheesy and filled with hokum, but if you
can give them a taste of what you're calling about and why it might benefit them to call you back,
you'll increase the odds that they call you back.
A lot of people, they get a voicemail, they hang up.
I beg you, do not do that again.
Some of you are watching this and saying, my gosh, T.J. is a really old, grumpy man.
I'm just trying to help you make more money and succeed in business.
I understand there are a lot of you under, I'll say, about the age of 39 where you never, ever,
ever, ever, ever leave voicemail with friends and family.
Fine.
I'm not trying to change you, but if you're calling a customer a client a prospect, do not call and
then not leave a voicemail.
It's highly irritating to a lot of people.
They can't stand it.
They're thinking about, is this a telemarketer and I'm wasting my time, or is this something important?
Do I need to call back?
Oh, what do I do?
It creates all this anxiety.
So if you're going to call someone, leave a message.
That's what the technology is there.
There is literally nothing bad that can happen to you if you leave a voicemail after you've called someone
and it goes to voicemail.
It just makes life easier for everyone.
You don't have to do this constant game of phone tag, people trying to figure out why do we even start
trying to contact each other?
It'll all be there in your initial voicemail message.
So please, I'm begging you, call, get the voicemail, leave a message.
You may think you're calling an office phone, but the office phone has been forwarded to someone's
cell phone.
And if they just see a couple of missed messages, it's annoying.
And they're going to wonder, was this important?
Is this crisis what's really happening?
Why keep them in doubt?
It's not necessary to do that at all.
So please leave the voicemail message.
It's simple, easy technology that's been around a long time.
You cannot go wrong by doing that.

--- Take 1, Take 2, Take 3 Until You Get It Right ---

Final, important voicemail tip.
Many voicemail systems allow you to listen to it and redo it if you're not happy.
Very few people ever follow up on that, but do it now.
You don't want to spend ten hours listening and redoing a simple message to your boss every day.
It'll eat up too much time, but if it is someone who doesn't know you or there's not a strong pre-existing
relationship, a client prospect, maybe a brand new client and you're not sure, Maybe you had a bunch
of oz and arms.
Hit the button that allows you to listen to the message and then hit the button.
Says, If you're not happy, hit this button and rerecord it.
Keep recording it and listening to it until you're comfortable with it.
This alone should take some of the stress off.
A lot of times people get nervous and that's when the ums come out.
If you know in advance it is voicemail, then it takes all the pressure off.
You can just redo it until all you're happy with it.
Also, I should have mentioned this earlier, but it's critical so often these days we're just assuming
it's going to be voicemail.
We can't actually get a human being that we're often shocked to have an actual human being pick up.
That's the best of all possible worlds.
Don't say, Oh, I was hoping to get your voicemail.
Use the opportunity.
Be ready for the opportunity to say exactly what you wanted to say.
Don't make them hang up.
So you leave a voicemail that's awkward and, frankly, weird.
Don't do that.
Okay, Here's your homework.
I need you to leave a voicemail on someone's phone and then call them up.
Ask them to tell you what they think of your voicemail, get some feedback, Get a critique from someone
else, ideally in your place of business, of what they think of the message you leave on your voicemail.
Please do that now.

--- Never Be Busy for Clients and Bosses Again ---

Another small issue.
I don't encounter it very often, but it does come up.
Call someone.
You get a busy signal.
Who in the world still has a busy signal.
Now, I do realize it costs sometimes a dollar or two more on an average cell phone plan to have it
go right to voicemail, spend the money.
Look, if you're poor and it's your own personal phone for your personal time, fine.
You don't even have to have a phone.
But we're talking about here what you're doing for business.
And in this day and age, if a client, a prospect, a customer is calling you and they get a busy signal,
it sounds like you're out of business or you're a restaurant that somebody started in 1955 and they're
just they're in the kitchen all the time.
They haven't figured anything out.
So get rid of the busy signal.
No one who calls you for business should ever have their time wasted by hearing.
Ant, ant.
Ant.
Ant, ant.

--- Making Your Phone Disappear At the Perfect Moments ---

I haven't talked to you about one of the most powerful ways you can ever use your phone in business.
One of the most powerful ways you can cement your reputation with your boss.
Clients.
Customers.
Way this phone can enhance your credibility dramatically.
What's that secret?
The off switch.
What do I mean by that?
Well, if you're in a meeting, if you're in a face to face meeting with a client, a prospect, a customer,
an important colleague.
Turn your phone off.
It's insanely annoying to people if they're talking to you and your phone.
Oh, hang on one minute.
I've got to take this.
And they don't know what it is.
For all they know, you're just placing a bet with your bookie or something.
So my recommendation, if you want to really send a signal to a client customer prospect that, hey,
you are important, your time is important, your business is important, my relationship to you and
your organisation is important.
Turn your phone off.
I don't mean just on vibrate because if it's vibrating and lights are flashing but not ringing, it's
human nature.
You're going to look.
They're going to look and there's a part of you that's going to think, Is there a chance this is more
important?
Probably isn't, but it's going to take you away and it's going to send a signal to the person you're
meeting with in person that they are not important.
Well, guess what?
Nobody likes to be told they're not important and they might not be that important.
But you don't have to rub it in their face.
So know how to turn your phone off.
I would recommend you not put it on.
So many people go into meetings these days and their cell phone is their.
And worse is when they start playing with it.
That's the absolute worst.
We've all been bored at meetings or conferences.
It's one thing if you're at a convention, there's a big keynote speaker and you're in the dark and
you're on the 18th row and the speaker is not that interesting.
Well, sure.
You check email, you check the sports scores, but if you're in a meeting.
And someone's talking and you're on your phone.
It's frankly about the same as spitting on them.
You might not feel that way, but just realize other people do.
Do you like it when someone spits on you?
Do you like it when someone tells you your time?
Your ideas are completely worthless?
Now, we're not here to talk about family relations and whether teenagers or other family members are
on their cell phones at dinner time.
That's a different course.
I'm not going there.
I'm talking about just in business situations.
You really are not using the full potential, the power of your cell phone unless you know exactly how
to not only turn it off, put it away.
In fact, a really important meeting.
Don't even take it in with you.
I understand life is messy and complicated.
There are exceptions, but you need to plan for the exceptions and lay the groundwork So if you have
a meeting with your boss.
But the most important client to your company is planning on calling you.
They said, I'll call you tomorrow morning.
We got to resolve this one issue.
It'll only take two seconds.
Then I would say to my boss, I have this out just because Mr. Smithers is calling.
He has one quick question and I promised I'd be available to him.
And your boss is going to realize that Smithers is the person paying everyone's bills because it's the
most important client.
Your boss isn't going to be offended.
And have it out and let the person know.
You could also have something that any fair minded person considers a very important personal issue
that should take precedent.
You could say, Excuse me, everyone, I don't mean to be rude, but.
A close family member is about to have a baby.
I'm expecting a call from the hospital at any time.
It's the only call I would take.
That's why my phone is out.
No one's going to be offended by that.
Or if you have a family member who is in the hospital and said, look, I'm taking I'm have this out
just because I might be getting a call from the hospital.
My father is in intensive care.
No one's going to be offended.
But if you just have the phone out and you don't say why and you're kind of.
Ha ha.
Yeah.
Ha ha.
Yeah.
It's going to cut against your credibility.
You seem like someone who can't focus, who's scattered, who's just all over the place.
That is not a reputation that's going to enhance your career.
So my recommendation.
Any important meeting phone, not just on vibrate, but off, preferably not visible.
Ideally, it's not even in the same room with you.

--- Better Than the Best Hollywood Goodbyes ---

We're quickly coming to the end of this course and it's going to be time to say goodbye.
Speaking of which, have you noticed that more and more of these days, a lot of people just hang up
the phone.
They don't say goodbye.
Why is that?
Well, it's because in the movies and TV shows, you don't see people say goodbye because it doesn't
advance the narrative.
It takes valuable screen time.
Film time doesn't add to the drama of a movie or the comedic effect of a sitcom.
So if you're making a movie, by all means don't say goodbye.
But for everything else in your business life, be polite.
Thank the person for their time.
And then whether you say goodbye or bye.
Either way is fine.
But don't just hang up.
It's too abrupt.
Nobody's going to be offended by a quick, simple goodbye.

--- You Will always Deliver a Great Speech, The PowerPoint is Beside the Point ---

PowerPoint.
Just saying that word sends chills up the spines of a lot of people in the business world because they
think, oh, my gosh, it's going to be so boring.
I hate PowerPoint.
I understand that feeling.
But the problem isn't PowerPoint.
The problem is bad PowerPoint.
There's no such thing as PowerPoint is bad.
That's like saying television is bad.
Well, sure, there is a lot of bad TV, and there's the Jerry Springer Show.
But you know what?
If you love World Cup soccer and you can't travel to that country to watch it, watching World Cup soccer
on a giant high definition TV is great.
So the problem isn't TV.
The problem is what you're watching.
Same thing with PowerPoint.
There's no such thing as PowerPoint being awful.
A particular PowerPoint presentation might be awful because the tools were not used effectively.
Back to the analogy of a television.
You can have the world's greatest TV, but if it's hung upside down or if it's not plugged in, it's
not going to be a very satisfying experience.
Or if you have it only on the channel of public access and it's playing the lunch menus for the schools
next week, it's not going to be great TV.
Again, the problem isn't TV, it's what is on it and how it's being used.
The same is true with PowerPoint.
You can give a fantastic PowerPoint presentation and you can give a fantastic PowerPoint presentation
every time, but you also can give an awful presentation using PowerPoint.
This course is going to teach you how to give a great PowerPoint presentation.
More important, it's going to teach you how to give a great presentation because rule number one in
this course is there really is no such thing as a PowerPoint presentation.
Now, hear me out before you hit cancel and ask for your money back.
What I mean by that is, from the audience's perspective, they are never sitting in their seats looking
at you saying, Wow, I sure am glad this person's giving me a PowerPoint presentation today, or a
technical presentation or a financial presentation or a formal presentation.
That's not how audiences think from an audience's standpoint.
None of those things really exist.
The only thing from an audience's perspective that exists when it comes to speeches is there are two
kinds.
It's either good because it's interesting, relevant, useful, I'll pay attention or it's bad.
It's boring.
Let me pretend to pay attention and really let me check my email.
That's it.
There's only two types of presentations in the world.
So the first thing you've got to figure out when you're going to use PowerPoint is not how to give a
great PowerPoint presentation or how to even give a PowerPoint presentation.
Your first challenge is how do you give an interesting, relevant, memorable presentation?
With every presentation you give, there's really four things you're trying to accomplish.
The first is you need to know how to look comfortable, confident, relaxed.
Because if you look scared, nobody's going to focus on your slides or your message or anything else.
Now, the challenge for many people is when they're just speaking informally or with no PowerPoint,
they're gesturing, they have good eye contact.
They come across well, the second they have that PowerPoint, that's sort of awkward.
And, you know, half looking at the slides behind them and the remote control and this and that or
reading a script.
So sometimes the PowerPoint actually brings people down and makes them worse on the comfort level.
The next challenge in any presentation can people understand you shouldn't be that hard, but if you
speak too quickly or you're too nervous and you're racing or too soft in the way you speak, no one
can understand you.
The third goal of every single presentation is can people remember your messages?
Now, this is the hard part for most executives, whether it's in business, government, the nonprofit
world.
The hard part in any speech is getting your audience to remember your messages with or without PowerPoint.
And if you're going to use PowerPoint, doesn't mean your messages are going to be more memorable.
It could be more memorable.
If you use PowerPoint slides effectively, you could actually make it less memorable if you just have
a whole bunch of words and a whole bunch of text up there.
The fourth goal in any PowerPoint presentation is getting people to take the actions you want.
You want them to approve your budget to.
Make a purchase to sign a contract to invest money in you.
Never lose sight of the fact that when you present in the adult business world, you're doing so because
you want your audience to take a particular action with or without PowerPoint.
So let's not lose sight of those four main goals in every presentation.
And now let's hop in specifically to how PowerPoint can help you do this.

--- It is Your Presentation, Not a PowerPoint Presentation ---

The first thing to remember when you're giving a PowerPoint presentation is to remember this is your
presentation and your audience's presentation.
It's not the PowerPoint presentation.
And again, the sooner you can get away from thinking of this as a PowerPoint presentation, the better.
Yes, you're going to use PowerPoint.
But you know what?
I'm using electricity today in my presentation.
It's not an electricity presentation.
I have a video camera that I'm using today, but it's not a video camera presentation.
These are simply tools.
So, so much of what makes someone a great PowerPoint presenter is understanding that fundamental relationship.
This is your presentation, it's your ideas.
You're going to make these ideas come alive.
And yes, you will have PowerPoint slides that will augment your message and make your messages more
understandable to your audience.
But you're in charge.
Not the PowerPoint.
Too many people have that backwards.
They think of themselves as sort of the butler, the assistant, the gofer to the slides.
So they sort of are standing off in the corner like they're the little Wizard of Oz hiding behind the
curtains, meekly just turning the pages.
That's not the most effective way to use PowerPoint.
It's still your presentation.
In fact, this is how I want you to start.
Every single so-called PowerPoint presentation you give, I want you to stand up or sit down.
If you're sitting, I want you to start your presentation and I want you to talk for the first two minutes
without a single slide up.
You don't need to put your name.
You don't need to put the title of the presentation.
It's in the agenda or you've been introduced that way.
Here's why I want you to do that.
I want you to train your audience into respecting you and to seeing that you are the expert.
You're not just some low level lackey sent here to read a bunch of stuff that a corporate marketing
department wrote six months ago.
You are establishing your authority, your legitimacy when you can simply look at people and talk to
them and give them some ideas that are useful and interesting.
Now, you may still have 120 slides.
Don't take this as some indication that I'm anti slide or anti PowerPoint.
I'm not.
But I want to establish right from the beginning your authority.
If you're not seen as the authority in this presentation, why do people gather in the room?
You could have just emailed them text.
So that's the first rule.
You're starting a PowerPoint presentation.
Start without any slides up or start with it blacked out.
And that way people can see that you're the expert and you are the authority.

--- A Guaranteed 2-Part Test for Your Slides ---

Ik ga je een heleboel tips geven in deze les en huiswerkopdrachten, maar hier is
er één die ik er al vroeg uit wil gooien, want als je dit snapt, lost het bijna al je problemen
op.
Je moet een tweeledige test uitvoeren op elke dia die je gebruikt in een PowerPoint-presentatie.
De eerste test is: begrijpt je publiek het punt dat je probeert over te brengen beter
dan wanneer je het gewoon zegt.
Het tweede punt is: zorgt deze dia ervoor dat je publiek een bepaalde boodschap beter onthoudt dan wat je
net zegt?
Als je op beide concepten geen ja kunt zeggen, gooi de glijbaan dan in de prullenbak.
Het is heel gemakkelijk om te testen of deze dingen waar zijn.
Als je gewoon vraagt om je hele presentatie te testen op een groep mensen die misschien collega's zijn van verderop in de gang of van een andere
afdeling.
Als je klaar bent, vraag dan welke dia's ze zich herinneren.
Vraag hen welke punten van de boodschap ze zich herinneren.
Als ze de boodschappen die voor jou het belangrijkst zijn niet onthouden, heeft je dia niet gewerkt.
Ze onthouden niet letterlijk wat er op je dia staat en wat de boodschap erachter is.
Het werkte niet.
Gooi het in de prullenbak.
Als je gewoon die ene regel volgt, kun je bijna alle problemen elimineren die PowerPoint-presentaties kapot
maken en vervelend maken.

--- How You Will Never Use Your PowerPoint Slides as a Teleprompter ---

I'm going to give you a whole lot of tips in this course on what effective PowerPoint is, how to use
it, what it should be.
But let's just take a timeout a minute and really clarify what a PowerPoint presentation isn't.
It Isn't the poor man's the poor woman's teleprompter.
If it's one thing I encounter all over the world, six continents I've worked in is that people absolutely
hate it when a speaker reads to them.
Admit it.
You hate it when a speaker reads to you from a PowerPoint slide because you can see the words up there.
They're reading it.
So if I'm reading a slide and you can read it too, what I'm really saying is, Hey, I think you're
so stupid, you don't know how to read, so I'm going to read it to you.
That's brutal, folks.
Everybody hates it.
And yet the very same people who tell me they hate it end up doing it.
Well, yeah, but I didn't have time to prepare and I couldn't memorize it.
And it's right there.
And I want to get every word just right.
So I'm going to read it.
Now, if you're thinking of reading your PowerPoint presentation, call in sick.
Just give us all a favor.
Spare us the misery.
Okay?
The PowerPoint slides are for your audience.
They are never for you.
If there's something you need to help you remember what to say next, use a good old fashioned piece
of paper.
Use some notes.
That's what I use.
Nothing wrong with notes.
As long as you keep it to a single sheet of paper and large font so you don't have to be doing all this
stuff.
So remember, the PowerPoint slides are not for your notes.
Use good old fashioned piece of paper for your notes.
The PowerPoint slides are just for your audience.

--- Advanced PowerPoint and Visuals ---

So now you have stories for each one of your message points.
What else can you do to really increase the odds that your audience will remember your message?
Another tool is to use a visuals.
Now, if you have good stories, you're forcing people to visualize things when they hear you.
But if you actually give them something visual to look at, then they don't have to do any creative
thinking.
They're just going to instantly see that.
Now the most commonly used visual in presentations is the PowerPoint slide.
Now, I know some of you have instant reactions when you hear the phrase PowerPoint because you think,
Oh, PowerPoint is awful, it's horrible, it's boring.
And yet we have to use PowerPoint in our company.
Here's the thing.
There's nothing inherently awful about PowerPoint.
Saying PowerPoint is awful is like saying all television is awful.
Well, sure, some TV is awful, but if you love World Cup soccer and you can't afford to fly to the
games, watching World Cup soccer on TV is great TV.
We all have certain things we like watching on TV.
So the problem is not PowerPoint, it's how people use it.
The number one way most people use PowerPoint is just to throw lots and lots and lots of bullet points.
Text their script.
They're thinking, Wow, this is going to be easy.
I don't have to know what I'm saying.
I don't have to practice, rehearse, memorize.
I can just follow the PowerPoint.
The problem, of course, is if you're reading the script, the audience can read it too.
So why does anyone need you?
It's boring when you're reading a PowerPoint and you're destroying your eye contact because you can
no longer look at your audience members.
You're fixated on your slides in front of you, or you're turning around on your back.
So that's the real problem.
Now, there are a lot of different theories out there on PowerPoint.
My theories are based on having tested them in the real world in front of live audiences, and you can
do the same thing.
I don't want you to take my word for anything to do with PowerPoint test, but here's the test.
Put up your slide.
Give your presentation.
When you're done.
Ask people what your slides were if they don't remember it, it didn't work.
It's horrible.
Take it.
Tear it up and throw it in the trash can.
If people did remember your slide and what was on it and what the message is, it did work.
That means you passed.
Keep the slot.
It's effective.
It really comes down to that.
If people remember your slides and the message is from it, it works.
Now, here's the rule of thumb that I follow and that I get my clients to follow who really want to
be effective speakers.
If you're using PowerPoint, don't use text.
I know, I know.
I know.
You can tell me.
Well, that's crazy talk.
In our corporate culture, we have five bullet points and we have eight words per bullet point.
And that's the way it's it's that it's done that way a lot of places doesn't mean it's effective.
The most effective way to use PowerPoint is to put one image per slide and to have that just convey
one idea.
By the way, this is not a PowerPoint presentation.
This is just something to make it look a little fancier.
This is just a TV screen with a video loop going behind it.
I'm not trying to get you to focus on any one thing.
It's just something to create a little atmosphere.
When you're using PowerPoint, you shouldn't be throwing up lots and lots of pictures.
My recommendation one picture, not four different pictures that convey the point.
Just one picture per slide.
That's the most effective way to use PowerPoint.
Someone should hear you talk about the concept, see the image up on the slide, and instantly make
the connection of what your point is.
Drives it home.
Now they can understand it better and remember it better.
The rule of thumb for any slide is does it make your audience understand the idea more than you simply
saying it?
And does it make your audience remember the message more than you just saying it?
If you can't say yes to both questions, it's not a good slide.
Now, what I recommend for most of my clients and what I do myself is when I'm creating a PowerPoint
presentation, I use two PowerPoints.
One is the traditional lots of bullet points, lots of text, lots of words.
Email it to people in advance.
It is a handout posted on a website, but do not project it when you're standing up speaking in front
of people.
The second PowerPoint is just for you to show when you're standing in front of people and you have something
to project on a big screen.
That should consist of images.
What image per slot one idea per slide, not text.
I understand if that's not the way it's done in your company.
I understand if you haven't even seen it done that way.
I'm telling you, as an expert who's worked with 10,000 clients around the country, around the world,
from six different continents, this is what actually works.
But again, I don't want you to just blindly follow what I say.
I do want you to do one thing I ask for, and that is test.
You're giving a PowerPoint presentation to 40 colleagues or 40 new business prospects on Thursday.
Find three colleagues lunchtime Tuesday, Maybe offer to buy him a sandwich.
Give them your presentation when you're done.
Ask them every slide they remember.
Ask them every message they remember.
Any slide they remember.
You now have empirical evidence.
It works.
Keep it.
Good job.
But any slide, they don't remember exactly what it was, exactly what the message was, exactly what
was on that slide.
If they can't remember your slide, you now have empirical evidence that that slide was garbage.
Throw it away or keep it as the handout.
Keep it as something that you're emailing to people in advance or handing out afterwards.
I do not recommend that you give somebody the full printout of your PowerPoint and put it down in front
of them right before you speak, because most people can read much faster than people can talk.
You can talk 140 to 160 words per minute.
People can read sometimes six, seven, 800, 900 words per minute.
So if someone's interested in your topic and you give them the whole deck and it has lots and lots and
lots of text, it's more efficient and more rational for them to be doing this and ignoring you.
Why would you want to encourage people to ignore you?
It makes absolutely no sense.
That's one of the huge problems of PowerPoint is you're asking your audience to multitask.
Hey.
Audience member Listen to me.
No, ignore me.
Look at this handout.
No, ignore that and look at what's here up on this slide.
You're asking people to multitask.
All the clinical research on multitasking shows human beings simply aren't good at it.
If you doubt me, look at the highways and look at all the people basically killing themselves because
they can't resist driving and texting at the same time.
Human beings are not good at multitasking.
All the research shows that if you give one person one task, let them finish it, give them another
task, let them finish it.
Give them a third task, let them finish it versus giving the three tasks to one person and say, do
it all at once.
The person who is giving it one at a time will finish all three tasks sooner than the multitasker with
fewer errors.
And I believe in taking that approach when it comes to audiences and PowerPoint slides.
If you're speaking, don't have a slide up.
If you have a slide up, don't talk.
Let people look at the slide.
If you're giving somebody a handout, give it to them.
Let them read it.
Wait till their head comes up and they're looking at you again before you start talking.
Great speakers are keenly aware at all times of what their audiences are doing and what they're looking
at.
So if you want more tips on PowerPoint, there's a chapter in both of the books that are attached in
this course below.
It'll give you even more examples and more studies.
But again, the basic rule of thumb is just test it on audiences.
It's really not that complicated, folks.
And here is the number one tip I can tell you is audiences don't remember bullet points in text.
You could say it has to be done.
That way.
You can say these experts are saying, well, three bullet points and eight words test.
I might deceive you.
Other presentation experts might deceive you, but your audience can't deceive you if they don't remember
it.
They can't really lie to you and tell you they do remember it.
And here's what the message is.
They're not going to be able to do that.
So the ultimate arbiter is not me.
It's not what other presentation experts say, and it's not even what you like to do or what's convenient
for you.
The ultimate is what does your audience remember?
So keep that in mind when it comes to PowerPoint.
Also, keep in mind, PowerPoint is only one visual tool.
There's nothing wrong with props.
So, for example, when I want to convey the importance of video recording yourself, I don't just say
video record yourself.
I'll reach into my pocket, pull out my cell phone, and I'll say, It's simple.
All you have to do is talk to your own cell phone.
So nothing wrong with a simple prop like that.
Additionally, I mean, look at someone like Steve Jobs.
He had all the technology in the world at his disposal.
Now his company doesn't use PowerPoint.
They have their version of it called Keynote.
He can obviously use that.
But when he wanted to unveil his newest, thinnest laptop, he didn't just put up a slide that says
thinnest and 0.2in.
He didn't put up facts like that.
He said, How thin is this new laptop?
He paused.
He had someone walk out on stage, hand him an envelope, he says It's this thin and reached into the
envelope and he pulled out the laptop.
Here it is many, many years later.
And people all over the world remember that.
It just drove home this image and this message of, wow, this laptop is really thin and light.
So just because you can use PowerPoint, just because it's easy for you doesn't mean you should overlook
other basic tools, props, real world things, things that are tangible because that's what helps the
memory process.
So that's your lesson.
That's your homework lesson right now.
Come up with a visual for each and every one of your message points.
It could be a PowerPoint slide, it could be an actual prop, but you need a visual for every single
slide.
That's your homework.
Do it now.

--- Final Thoughts on PowerPoint ---

Grazie per esserti unito a me in questo corso su come offrire una presentazione in PowerPoint.
Ti auguro buona fortuna con tutte le tue presentazioni di PowerPoint che fai durante la vita.
Ma in realtà ciò in cui ti auguro buona fortuna è fare grandi presentazioni ogni volta che parli e utilizzare tutti
gli strumenti immaginabili per aiutare il tuo pubblico.
Se è un ottimo supporto se è anche una diapositiva di PowerPoint.
Ma prima di tutto devi essere un grande comunicatore.
Devi avere una buona concentrazione delle tue idee.
Hai bisogno di buone storie ed esempi e, occasionalmente, elementi visivi per rendere vive le tue idee.
E se hai un sacco di testo e punti elenco, va bene anche dopo che le persone sono state
distribuite o in anticipo.
Questo è quello che sto facendo per te in questo momento nella sezione bonus vedrai non uno ma
due dei miei libri di lingua pubblica con ancora più suggerimenti su PowerPoint.
Grazie ancora e buona fortuna con tutte le tue presentazioni nella vita.

--- Let's Start Saving Time Right Away! ---

Laten we het probleem eens definiëren: je werkt in een bedrijf, een organisatie, een overheid, een non-profit organisatie
en plotseling staat er iets op de kalender, een gelegenheid om een toespraak of presentatie te houden.
Het wordt gezien als een belangrijk publiek.
Wat doe je nu?
Ik zie het volgende scenario bij bedrijven en overheidsinstanties over de hele wereld waarmee ik werk.
En dat is een teken aan iemand om de bal aan het rollen te brengen en iemand begint te schrijven en gegevens
te verzamelen.
En voor je het weet begint het in een PowerPoint slide en dan wordt er gezegd, hé, we doen deze
toespraak.
Wie heeft ideeën?
Er wordt steeds meer informatie geplaatst.
Er worden steeds meer feiten verzameld.
Voor je het weet heb je een PowerPoint slide van misschien 30, 40, 50 pagina's en dat wordt de toespraak,
de presentatie.
Dus iedereen is hier nu op gefocust en soms kunnen mensen het verfijnen en inkorten, veranderen,
dingen eruit halen die andere mensen erin willen stoppen.
Soms zijn er vergaderingen, maar voor je het weet is het een gigantische tijdsbesteding geworden.
Nu maak je misschien je eigen presentatie.
Het kan zijn dat je personeel het toch moet doen.
Het kost veel tijd, mannen, uren, vrouwen, uren van mensen in je organisatie.
En je besteedt er zelf tijd aan of je moet het managen of erop toezien dat andere mensen het doen.
En wat er gebeurt is dat deze mentaliteit van de toespraak het PowerPoint-document is.
Ik ben geen...
PowerPoint vinden om PowerPoint te gebruiken, maar de hele focus ligt op het verzamelen van gegevens, berichten, grafieken,
diagrammen, complexiteit voor het PowerPoint-deck en dan van daaruit terugwerken.
Ik ben hier om te zeggen dat dat een achterlijke benadering is, want als alle aandacht uitgaat naar een groot document
met veel opsommingstekens, veel tekst, veel gegevens, dan creëert dat zijn eigen werk.
Het zorgt voor meer en meer werk.
Het is een virus dat muteert en uit de hand loopt.
Wie voor zichzelf werkt, weet misschien niet waar ik het over heb.
Maar degenen onder jullie die in grote organisaties werken, hebben het zien gebeuren.
Je weet dat het gebeurt.
En voor je het weet, gaan speeches door één, twee, drie, vijf, tien concepten.
Of je nu PowerPoint gebruikt of gewoon een Word-document, het gaat door kladjes en kladjes en kleden.
Omdat de hele mindset van mensen in jouw organisatie is: hoe kom ik over als slim en behulpzaam?
En ik kan niet gewoon de toespraak lezen en een e-mail terugsturen en zeggen, hé, ziet er goed uit, dus
ik moet slim zijn en hen vertellen dat dit eruit moet of dat deze formulering een beetje anders moet of dat je
dit deel moet toevoegen.
Iedereen wil hier een vinger in de pap hebben.
Iedereen wil een andere chef in de keuken zijn.
En helaas is het meer, meer, meer en meer.
En wat gebeurt er dan?
Negenennegentig procent van de tijd is het acht, negen, tien uur de avond voor de toespraak.
En de hele focus ligt op dit document.
Verander dit, verander deze letterkleur, verander deze afbeelding.
Laten we hier meer tekst toevoegen.
Voor je het weet is het zelfs middernacht.
Heeft iemand de toespraak eigenlijk al gerepeteerd?
Nee, er komen steeds meer gegevens bij.
Dus de persoon die de toespraak houdt, weet niet echt hoe lang hij zal zijn, hij heeft hem nog niet geoefend.
Dus je eindigt met iets dat gewoon een grote datadump is en de persoon die de toespraak houdt, zal die toespraak houden.
Als jij het bent, weet ik zeker dat je perfect competent bent.
Je hoeft niet per se te delen.
Ik bedoel, daar hebben we andere cursussen voor als je je zorgen maakt dat je nerveus bent, maar je gaat wel
op een competente manier door de hele presentatie heen waaraan collectief tientallen, zo niet honderden uren van de tijd van je organisatie
is besteed.
Maar wat herinneren mensen zich daarna?
Wat herinnert het publiek zich eigenlijk?
Het is een goede kans.
Niet zo veel.
Er moet een betere manier zijn dan dit hele grote, lange proces van door de gegevens gaan en je niet eens
afvragen of het publiek het oppikt.
Dat is wat deze cursus je gaat leren.
Laten we nu meteen naar de eerste les gaan.

--- Save Time by Focusing On Your Exact Goal ---

If I say to you, get in the car, drive, let's just go for a trip.
You might ask, Well, where are we going?
Are we going to drive across the country to California?
Are we going to drive around the block?
Fair questions.
Because if you don't know where you're going, if you don't have a destination in mind, you're going
to go around in circles, get lost, just meander.
You're not going to accomplish much.
Well, the same thing happens with speeches, with presentations.
Far too often, people just start off with a speech with a vague fuzzy notion of a topic, and they
think, Well, how can I gather everything I know about the topic?
And that is the root cause of all of your problems all of the time suck when it comes to your speech.
Because if you just go off with a general vague notion of telling people everything about that subject
or everything your company has done in the last six months or everything your government organization
does, you're just going to dig more and more and more data and it's just you're going to be lost.
So, so much of what I'm going to stress here in this course is all hinging around this one thing right
now.
You've got to make a decision right at the beginning of this speech preparation.
Are you going to do it the way you've always done it before, which is just well, let's start with
the research and gather stuff.
Or are you going to start with the goal in mind if you know that today you're in New York City and you
want to drive to Los Angeles and get there the quickest way possible, driving the fewest miles possible
on the best roads, you would spend some time planning, you would perhaps get a good GPS and you would
go there.
You wouldn't just say, Well, let me just drive around the block and let me see where the sun is.
And oh, this looks like a nice road.
You'd never get there, or you would take you months to get there instead of a few days.
It's exactly the same thing with the speech.
So here's what I want you to do for every speech you ever give in the future before you start doing
anything, before you even pull up a PowerPoint slide software I want you to write down.
It can be on a single sheet of paper.
It could be on your computer screen first thing.
What is it you want this audience to do after hearing your speech?
One sentence What do you want them to do?
If you're in business, then you probably want them to become a client, to request a meeting with you
to authorize a budget to approve findings you've already done in research.
What is it you want them to do?
If it's a government agency and you're trying to encourage people to eat more vegetables, what's the
specific action?
Now, keep in mind, most of the time when people give presentations, the audience doesn't do anything
except a fall asleep or B, check their email.
So if you actually get some members of the audience to do anything, you're going to be wildly successful
compared to most speakers.
If you get most of the people in the audience to do something, you are going to be one of the most
successful speakers that audience has seen in a long time.
So that's the starting point.
Do that before you do anything else.
Do that before you even get to a computer.
Just write down one sentence.
What is it you want this audience to do after hearing your presentation?

--- Faster Ways to Come Up with the Perfect Messages ---

The next step for you is to brainstorm on the ideas, the messages you want to communicate in this presentation.
Ideally, the messages you think would actually motivate your audience to do what you want them to do.
Remember your goal that we worked on before.
Now, here's the area where I want to save you time.
We're just looking for the raw idea.
We're not looking for whole paragraphs, coherent arguments, complex charts, graphs.
We're not looking for any of that yet.
We're just trying to isolate the actual idea that you want to communicate in this speech, this presentation.
So what I'd urge you to do is to just brainstorm, write them out, bullet point it out, even number
it.
You can do it on an old fashioned notepad if you're working with a team.
If you have an organization speechwriting team, I would recommend that someone type it up, project
it on an LCD projector so everyone can see it.
Don't worry about dumb ideas.
Put anything out there.
We're just in a brainstorming mode.
I'd like you to limit this to one half an hour, but if it's a wildly complex speech, incredibly important.
The whole world is watching.
Okay.
Spend an hour.
But again, here's the thing.
This is not the time for discussion.
This is not the time to debate the merits of your messages.
This is the time to just throw things down.
Or you can look at it one idea at a time.
Now, this is typically what people do by coming up with drafts for the PowerPoint only.
They feel the need to have 72 sub points and eight other themes that relate to that.
I just want to isolate the main messages that you're trying to convey in this speech.
Now you can have as many as you want for right now.
You can have one, two, three pages, you can have 50, 60, 100 messages, put as many down as you
can.
Give yourself a strict time limit.
If it's just you, give yourself a time limit.
If you're working with a whole team, it's important to give yourself a time limit.
Otherwise you'll start this big general discussion complete, utter waste of time.
That doesn't help you figure out what to focus on in your speech.
It just waste time.
So if you're doing this with a group, you've got to have some discipline.
You want someone to throw out an idea to talk for 10s or less, and someone typing it or writing it
up.
That's all you want to do.
If some of them are duplicative, fine.
You hear somebody make a really stupid idea, just grin and bear it because it's not going in the final
speech.
It's just being tossed out there.
So that's your assignment right now.
Brainstorm every single message you could possibly try to communicate in this speech or presentation.

--- Tips on Final Preparation of Your 5 Message ---

So now you've done your brainstorming.
You've got a good list, 50, 70, maybe 100 message points.
That's great.
There's few guarantees in life, but I will guarantee this for you or your money back for this course.
If you try to communicate 50 or 60 or 100 messages in a speech outside of a classroom setting where
people are taking notes and being tested on it, you will fail and you will fail miserably.
Now, how do I know that?
I've been a presentation coach for 30 years.
I've worked with CEOs, executives and government, the private sector all over the world from six continents,
more than 10,000 executives for 30 years.
And I can tell you it's very hard to get people to remember stuff, messages from your speech.
In fact, I ask everyone I train to think of the best speaker they've seen in the last year and to then
tell me how many messages they remember from this great speaker.
Sometimes it's nothing.
Sometimes it's only one message, occasionally two, sometimes three.
Every once in a while, four messages.
Once every six months, someone will actually remember five, literally five messages from the best
speaker they've ever heard.
I've never heard anyone remember more than five message points.
So that's what I want you to keep in mind when you're coming up with your speech.
My firm firm recommendation.
Narrow your main messages to five if you actually communicate five.
Remember, it's communication.
Not if it comes out of your mouth, but if it goes in their ears and they remember it.
If you actually communicate five message points, you're going to be the best speaker, the best presenter
your audience has ever heard in most instances.
So now what I've got to have you do is go back to your list of message points, look at each one, debate
them.
If you're a part of a group, part of a team, if it's just you, debate it with yourself.
Put these messages in priority now, eliminate anything that isn't the top five.
You've got to narrow this down to five.
Now, please note we're into this speech preparation.
Now we spend a little time.
Not once have I asked you to get a PowerPoint deck out.
Not once have I asked you to start creating complex charts and rows and rows and rows of numbers.
You may have to do that later, but do not do that yet.
We've got to get the basic structure of this presentation before we have all the other stuff.
Think of it as a house.
If someone gave you the most expensive marble in the world, the best lumber, beautiful piece of property,
million dollars worth of materials, fine marble, and you just started building the house and you had
no architectural plan, no engineering plan, no blueprints.
What would that house look like?
No board sticking out here.
Marble?
It would look like garbage.
We know that with a house, most people would never in a million years dream of just starting to build
a house with all sorts of expensive materials without a specific plan.
And yet people routinely start their speeches without a plan.
So that's why I say don't even start with any bullet points, decks, charts, graphs yet.
Let's just really narrow down our messages.
So that's your homework Right now, I need just five messages that you want to communicate in this speech.
Each one should be ten words or less.
Do it now.

--- Your Examples Will Resonate ---

You have five clear messages, not five big themes and 27 sub points for each message, but five main
ideas messages you want to communicate in this speech, this presentation.
Now, it's still not time to whip out that PowerPoint.
And believe me, I'll let you do that at some point, just not yet.
Now you've got a brainstorm on examples, case studies, ideally stories for each message point.
Now, if you work with a speechwriting team, a communications team you need to sit around, could be
at lunchtime, could be after work with a beer.
Whatever your organization does, you need to actually sit around and have a conversation.
This simply doesn't work very well.
I find by people just typing and you can have a conference call even if you're not in the same room.
Now, if you're doing this speech for yourself, you need to actively think about when did I talk to
a client about this actual problem?
What's a customer that experienced this?
Wasn't there an issue with one of our employees in the San Diego plant about this very issue last week?
Your number one problem as a speaker is not that you're going to shake and Sweat's going to come down
and people are going to point and laugh.
Your number one problem as a speaker is that no one's going to remember anything you say.
So that's why this step is absolutely crucial, simply stating a message.
In fact, you can tell somebody the message.
You're going to tell them, tell them and tell them you told them it's not going to be remembered if
you don't flesh it out with examples, case studies, ideally a story that really fleshes it out.
And in the bonus section, I'll give you more information on how to really build out these stories.
But this is critical.
So that's what you need to do.
If you're working with a group, talk this out and then come up with a shorthand way of reminding you
what to say.
I would not recommend writing this outward for word.
Once you write a speech out word for word, then it's this whole document and everyone is changing every
comma and period forever.
And that's a massive time waste.
So don't put anything down on paper yet or a computer screen.
We just want to three words, bullet points to remind you of an example, a case study.
So that's what you need.
A good example, case study story for each one of your message points.

--- Use This Cheat Sheet! Time Management Public Speaking ---

So where are we so far?
If you follow the lessons in order, you've got an overall goal which you want the audience to do after
hearing you speak.
You've come up with your top five ideas, messages that you really want this audience to hear you say,
understand and remember, because it's likely to drive them to the action you want and you've got a
good case study and example, ideally a story for each one of your message points.
Now we've come to a fork in the road.
You've got to make a big decision.
If you go one way, it's going to take you hour after hour after hour and be a big time suck and not
result in anything better.
Or you can go the easy way.
Now, what most people do is they go the hard way, which is now let's write the speech and let's sit
down and type away until we have 20 pages of text.
Now, folks, there are times when that is necessary.
If you're the president of a major country, if you are the chairman of the Federal Reserve, if you
are a secretary of state or a minister of foreign affairs and you're speaking to the UN General Assembly,
and it's going to be written down and transcribed into numerous languages all over the world.
Sure, there are times when you do have to get a speech right, word for word all the way through.
But for 99.9% of business people and people in government, that does not apply.
And once you commit a speech to writing it out, it just brings you down and it takes a tremendous amount
of time.
What I'm recommending you do is the easy way, and that is simply come up with an outline, have a sheet
of paper that has your five message points and that has a few words to remind you of your story, your
example, your case study.
Now, I have worked in countless corporations, government agencies all over the world where it's just
a habit to write out the speech because the speech writer says, Well, that's what the boss wants.
And the boss says, Well, that's what the speechwriters give me.
And everyone's doing this dance, and no one ever stopped to think, Does this really help anything?
Does the person making the speech really want this?
Countless times I've been in that situation, I ask people, does this really help?
And typically the speaker says, Well, I don't really like reading a speech.
I'm much better off the cuff.
And the speechwriters viewpoint is, I don't really like writing speeches because it's tedious, it's
painful.
We go through 20 drafts and the person doesn't say what I asked, what I wrote anyway, so why go through
the whole dance?
It is a waste of time.
Now, I'm not suggesting someone just get up and ad lib a speech and blurt out stupid things.
Whatever pops in their head.
I'm suggesting a very thoughtful, methodical, planned presentation because again, we've already spent,
if you've done what I've asked a couple of hours in this preparation, really figuring out what our
goal is, what are our messages, what are our stories?
Our examples are case studies.
So I'm not suggesting that this be ad libbed in the sense that just, you know, Tourette syndrome words
are flowing from your mouth.
But I'm not suggesting that the whole thing be written out so that someone is either even tempted to
read or tempted to memorize or sort of half glance down and looking at it the whole time, because I
simply don't have any evidence that that helps the communication process.
I do have a lot of evidence that it impedes the communication process because it makes it so boring
and deadly dull because it's a huge data dump.
Plus you destroy the person's ability, the speaker's ability to maintain eye contact and seem like
a human being.
Plus, you waste dozens and dozens of hours, if not more.
So this is another big decision you got to make.
Are you going to write the whole speech out word for word?
Are you going to go with an outline?
I would recommend a single page outline that has your message points, that has your examples, a few
words to remind you of the case studies and any other important stories.
And then if you have a few big numbers and you want to get the numbers just right, we'll put that down.
It should all fit on a single page.
So please come up with your single page outline.
Now, if you want to write your whole speech word for word, well, I'm afraid I can't help you.
In fact, you should probably just quit this course now because you're going to be up till 2 a.m. writing
and rewriting this speech.

--- Create PowerPoint Quickly and Effectively ---

Now we're making progress.
You know, the goal you're trying to accomplish in your speech, you've got your five messages.
You've got examples, case studies, stories for each one.
And you have a cheat sheet on a single sheet of paper.
Now and only now is when we're going to talk about PowerPoint.
Now, folks, you may have surmised that I'm not a big fan of PowerPoint.
That's actually not true.
I'm just not a big fan of awful, boring PowerPoint that puts the audience to sleep and sucks dozens,
if not hundreds of hours out of an organization putting it together.
But I'm perfectly happy with good PowerPoint if it can be used effectively to help the audience and
if it's the wisest use of time for staff and speaker alike.
So here's what I'd like you to do, and it's a mindset changer.
You are the speaker.
What you say, how you say it is the presentation.
The presentation is not the PowerPoint.
The second you tell yourself the PowerPoint deck is the presentation, Game over.
You've lost.
You are going to fail miserably in my professional opinion.
You have to have the attitude that you're the expert.
You're the one who knows this.
It's your presentation.
It's your words, your ideas, your enthusiasm, your passion coming out.
And yes, you may have some slides to amplify those ideas.
That has to be the proper mentality when it comes to PowerPoint.
So here's what I want you to do.
Go back to your outline and then look at your first message and ask yourself, how can you somehow visually
make this idea come alive in a way that's more understandable than just words coming out of your mouth
and more memorable than just words coming out of your mouth.
And come up with an image, whatever it is.
So, for example, if you are trying to talk about how Alzheimer's affects a very high percentage of
Americans over the age of 85, regardless of social position or economic status, you could put a whole
bunch of statistics, but you could also just put a picture of Ronald Reagan, somebody famous.
Everybody knows.
And those who remember his life know that he did, in fact, have Alzheimer's when he was in the last
years of his life.
So that picture will drive that point home in a much more powerful way than text words, bullet points.
So that's what I want you to do, is to come up with a picture, an image if you need to have a graph.
The graph needs to be simplified so that people can look at it and instantly get the idea.
It can't be a graph with seven or 8 or 12 different lines, color coded, showing movements of every
single week for the last four quarters.
People can't look at that while you're speaking.
So I need you to come up with an image for each one of your message points that makes your idea more
understandable, more memorable.
If you can't think of any image picture simple graph to do that, that's okay.
Don't use anything.
Just talk to your audience then.
So that's what I want for your slides that you're actually going to project.
That's your homework.
Do it right now.
So ideally you've got five points.
Come up with five images that you are going to project in your PowerPoint or keynote show.

--- Final Thoughts on Saving Time ---

That's it.
If you follow the tips I've suggested in this course, you are going to spend less time on your presentations
and get far better results because you're going to deliver a more interesting, memorable speech at
a fraction of the time in preparation.
So again, in summary, you've got to start off by really figuring out what's your goal?
What are you trying to accomplish with this speech?
Then come up with the five messages that are most likely to get people to do what you want that are
important to you, interesting to you and to the audience.
Then you've got to come up with an example, a case study, a story for each message point.
Put it down on a single sheet of paper.
If you're going to use PowerPoint, fine.
Use an image, not words that you're projecting.
If you've got a whole lot of other text, fine.
Put it in a document.
Put it in a PowerPoint, make it 100 pages.
I don't care.
Don't project it during your speech.
Email it to people in advance.
Hand it out afterwards.
Finally, practice your speech on video until you like it.
If you do that, you are going to drastically shorten the amount of time that you and your staff and
your colleagues spend fussing with scripts and PowerPoints and you're going to get far better results.
Good luck in all your presentations.
I'm T.J. Walker.
Thanks for joining me.

--- Learn the Secret to Communicating Effectively Using a Teleprompter ---

Using a teleprompter can be an effective way to communicate a very specific speech in a somewhat controlled
way so that you don't have to forget what to say.
And you can focus on really delivering the message and connecting with your audience.
Now, it's especially helpful if you're on national TV and it's a live political convention.
The whole world is watching.
If you're a world leader, a president, a chairman of the Federal Reserve, a lot of people out there,
if they're giving speeches, people are analyzing every single word.
So a teleprompter can help you get it just right.
Now, other people may want to use a teleprompter because they're scared or they're nervous or they're
just afraid they're going to forget stuff or they're at a national convention and everyone else is using
a teleprompter, so why not?
There's all sorts of reasons for why people want to use a teleprompter.
Some of them good, some of them not so good.
We'll go into the reasons later.
But for right now, let's hop right into how to be good at it.
That's what the course is about.
I'm going to teach you how to read the teleprompter in a way so that people won't notice your reading.
They won't focus on the fact that you're reading a teleprompter.
They'll instead focus on your message, focus on your words, because that's the real goal of the teleprompter.
It's simply a communication tool so that you can get your ideas from in your head, out into the ears
of the audience so they can focus on what you're saying.
So let's hop right in.

--- Video Benchmark ---

Learning how to use a teleprompter effectively is something you learn by doing.
You can't simply read a book, and unfortunately, you can't just watch a video of me giving you tips.
You're going to have to record yourself.
So the first thing I need you to do is to find some teleprompter and record yourself.
Now, there are iPhone apps, there's apps and websites you can put on your computer.
You can have big fancy teleprompters.
You can have newscaster teleprompters.
There are the executive style ones that you've seen all presidents since Dwight D Eisenhower use find
a teleprompter.
Don't spend a lot of time on this, but find some teleprompter and create a speech.
I don't care what it's about.
Let's just make it 60s long.
It doesn't have to be long.
But I need you to give the speech using a teleprompter, and I need you to record yourself.
And then here's the part you're not going to like.
I need you to actually watch it.
It doesn't do any good to talk out loud or practice in a mirror.
You're going to have to record your speech that you've done using a teleprompter and you're going to
have to watch it.
I need you to make a list of things you like, things you don't like.
Now, we're not worried about the substance of your speech yet, although ultimately you better have
some good substance or it won't matter how well you read the teleprompter.
But for now, let's simply focus on what you like about your delivery.
I want you to come up with a list of stuff you like and a list of stuff you don't like.
Do that right now.
And folks, if you're not willing to do this, you're wasting your time here.
I'll give you your money back.
You might as well go to some other course or look at some entertainment online.
This is something you're going to have to do by speaking and recording yourself numerous times.
Let's hop right in.

--- Learn How to Make Self-Corrections So That You Always Look Great ---

So how did you do?
What did you think?
Now, if you weren't completely impressed with how you came across, you're in good company.
I can tell you, everybody hates looking at themselves on video, listening to their own voice, especially
if they're using a teleprompter for the first time.
So if you didn't love everything about how you came across, you're in excellent company.
Now I want you to look at that list of things you liked, the list of things you don't like, and I
want you to do it again.
We're only talking about 60s.
Not a three hour speech, not even a 20 minute speech.
But I want you to record yourself using a teleprompter, and I want you to try to do more of the stuff
you liked and focus on just one thing you didn't like.
Let's try to remove that.
I want to see if you can self-correct because I'm happy to give you advice right here and any way I
can.
But the biggest source of insight into how you speak ultimately will come from you.
If you're willing to take the time to practice your speeches using a teleprompter on video.
Most people aren't willing to do that.
Most people are lazy.
And in fact, that's often what drives people to use a teleprompter.
They think, Well, I don't want to learn my speech or get familiar with it or get comfortable with
it.
I know I'll just throw it up on a teleprompter.
I won't have to remember anything and I can just read.
Now, that's the worst attitude you could possibly have.
If you really want to be a great communicator, what you will find is that it's going to take you more
time to use the teleprompter than to just speak from notes.
Now, I'm not trying to talk you out of using a teleprompter, but if your goal for doing it is time
saving.
You are barking up the wrong tree.
If you really want to be effective, you need to practice and rehearse on video for any important speech.
So what I want you to do now, do the very same speech again.
Record it again.
Grade yourself again.
And let's see if you can make any small improvements or big improvements.
Do it right now.

--- Master the 4 Key Elements That will Make Your Teleprompter Use Seem Effortless ---

So how'd you do?
Did you make any improvement?
I didn't ask if you improved absolutely everything when you went from awful to perfect.
I just want to know, did you make any improvement?
Because if you did, you now have a system for getting your speech better and better and better to the
point where it's great.
You simply keep practicing on video, removing the things you don't like, adding the things you like
until you're happy with it.
Now let's really get to the meat of the situation here.
Let me let me cut through a lot of clutter and tell you exactly what you need to know and how to avoid
the traps that really mess up most people when they're using a teleprompter.
Here's how most people look and sound when they're using a teleprompter.
Hello, my name is TJ Walker.
I am happy to be here today.
I am president of Media Training worldwide and I help people communicate effectively.
What's wrong with that?
Now, it's easy to say I look and sound like a robot wouldn't.
But what does that really mean?
Here's what's happening when most people read a teleprompter and what I just did.
Once you're fixated on words and going through words, you rob your voice of its conversational city.
Now, what does that mean?
What it really means is you're speaking too consistently at the same speed.
Your volume is too consistent and you're not pausing naturally.
It really comes down to those three problems plus not moving your head because when your head is moving
and your face is not showing any expression, you look like you are being held by terrorists and being
forced to read something against your will.
So it really comes down to those four things speaking speed to consistent speaking volume, to consistent,
not pausing and freezing your head.
And I bet if you go back and look at the video you just did, you'll see that you're guilty of one or
more of those crimes.
So if you want to come across as natural and relaxed with your teleprompter presentations, you're going
to have to very actively focus on solving all those problems.
And what that means is you're going to have to sometimes speak a little faster and sometimes a little
bit slower, sometimes louder to make a point.
And sometimes you got to whisper for the contrast because that's what people do in conversation.
And finally, you're going to have to pause occasionally because that's what people do when they're
just talking.
And of course, you've got to do it all by not looking frozen and stiff.
If you're fixated on the words, the easiest way to read is to have your head stiff.
You're going to have to very consciously move your head from left to right, up, down, back.
You've got to consciously move your head.
And by the way, you should be moving your hands and your body.
You shouldn't be like this looking scared or stiff or as if you were a prisoner somewhere.
So those are the big lessons.
I want you to video record yourself again.
This time I want you very consciously to sometimes speak a little louder, sometimes a little softer,
sometimes a little faster, and sometimes for emphasis a little slower.
And make sure you pause at the end of sentences, make sure it's a little longer at the end of paragraphs.
And finally, make sure your head is moving.
Nobody likes a stiff.
Look at that.
Stiff.
What a bore.
People mean it literally.
Sometimes if you're not moving, that's what makes you look like a robot.
That's what makes you look scared.
So this isn't that complicated, folks.
Now, me saying it doesn't mean you're instantly going to do it all like that, but it does give you
a template of what you should try to do and how to avoid the most common problems.
And if you do all that, by the way, the see what's happening, if you're if nothing is moving but
your eyes and your head is not moving and your face is not moving and your body is not moving, then
your eyes become the only noticeable thing on screen.
And that's when the whole quick dirty eye movement becomes obvious.
So if you do those handful of things I asked you to do, it solves all the other problems and it makes
it seem as though you're just talking to someone.
And that's what people like.
People always ask me, T.J., what's the best length of time for a speech?
And I said, Well, you know, it depends if you're really bored.
Roaring 30s is too long.
If you're incredibly interesting, you can be talking to someone on a road trip for three days and they'll
want to talk to you more as long as you're saying something interesting.
But when you listen to conversations between friends, family members, colleagues that are really dynamic
and where people don't want to stop, they're doing all these things.
They're not reading a teleprompter.
But voices get louder.
Sometimes they get softer, they get faster, sometimes they slow down.
And of course, people pause.
So the real key to using the teleprompter is not creating some new big skill set and learning all this
new technology.
It's really about talking the way you did with friends when you were five years old.
Now, the subject matter may be different, but it's about sounding like a real person and sounding
natural.
And that way it doesn't call attention to the fact that you're reading on a piece of glass in front
of people instead of actually talking to people.
So that's the goal.
So I want you to record your speech again, and this time I want you to focus on those handful of things
change the speed, change the volume, put in pauses and make sure your head moves, preferably your
whole body.
It doesn't have to be like this jumping up and down.
But I do recommend that not just your head moves, but you lean forward.
Certainly if you're speaking and standing, you can move a little even if there's a lectern there and
you can gesture.
So let's practice that right now.

--- The Perfect Speaking Speed for You ---

So if you didn't see complete improvement in all four areas, that's okay.
That's why we're here in this course.
We're here to practice.
Now I want you to record yourself again, but this time we're going to focus on just one element at
a time.
Now, I want you to give your whole speech again, reading from the teleprompter.
But the only thing I want you to focus on is the speed.
I want you to occasionally speak a little faster when you're excited and occasionally slow down for
emphasis to provide contrast.
Remember, natural human speech is full of ups and downs and fast and slows.
There's variety to it.
That sameness of somebody reading a teleprompter and everything is at the same speed.
That's what makes it awful to listen to.
So I want you to record yourself again, Focus just on changing the speed of how you're having those
words come out of your mouth.
Video Record it, watch it, critique it, and grade yourself just on that one category.
Do it now.

--- Volume ---

If you focused just on changing your speed, I bet you're able to do it.
It's not that hard to do any of this stuff if you focus on one thing at a time.
Now I want you to focus on volume.
I want you to very consciously try to change the volume of your speech, sometimes get a little bit
louder for emphasis, sometimes a little softer.
Don't worry about the speed now, although I think what you'll find is now that you've practiced changing
the speed and you're focusing on the volume, the two will go together and you'll create more variation
in your voice.
The speed and the volume will both be up and down and change.
There will be variety and that's what will make you more conversational.
Sound like a real person and and not sound like you're a robot reading at the same volume.
So do it now.
Give your same speech again.
Again.
We only need one minute.
Recorded on video, but I want you very consciously trying to change the volume in certain words.
And if you need to even make notes on your teleprompter script, that's okay.
Any way that works for you, all that matters are the results for your audience.
However it happens for you doesn't really matter as long as the change is seen by the audience.
So record now and this time very consciously change the volume.

--- Head Movement ---

And now we have to add the final element, which is moving your head.
See what I did right there?
I had all the other three elements, but by freezing my head, by keeping it frozen and stiff, it still
looked weird.
It sounded weird.
So now I need you to do the whole speech again.
Don't think as much about the speed, the volume and the pausing, although it's nice to keep what you
have.
But this time I need you very consciously thinking about moving your head.
We all move our head when we talk.
So do it right now.
Record it, practice it consciously.
Move your head when you're speaking.

--- Pausing ---

This next homework assignment is really easy.
All I'm going to ask you to do is nothing.
I'm going to ask you to pause at some point in your presentation.
What is a pause?
It's simply doing nothing.
It's shutting your mouth and doing nothing.
Now, there's a lot of things you're going to be asked to do in life, in various courses and in real
life and in business.
Not that many of them involve just doing nothing.
And that's all I'm asking you to do.
So this is a pretty easy assignment.
Now, I say it's easy when you're in front of people.
Most of us have some fear of public speaking, and when we're in front of people, we almost feel naked
and we want to sort of finish this up so we can get out of here.
So what most people do is they start speaking as quickly as possible.
They don't have any pauses because they figured as soon as I finish this, the sooner I can sit down
and get out of here, no one will stare at me anymore.
So psychologically.
It can be difficult to pause.
It can feel awkward.
You can feel like you're just there exposed.
But great speakers do it.
So I want you to give your whole speech again.
Again?
Just one minute.
But after a big thought.
After the end of one paragraph.
Pause.
Not for five minutes.
Not even for five seconds.
But just a couple of seconds.
Even a second and a half is enough of a pause that it provides contrast between the pausing between
words or sentences, which may only be half of a second or a quarter of a second.
So let's do the whole presentation again.
This time I want you to consciously pause at least a couple of times in your one minute speech.
Do it, record it, watch it, and determine if you, in fact, did add the pauses.

--- Putting All 4 Together ---

How did you do that last time?
Were you able to, in fact, move your head?
Now, it may be hard at first.
It may feel awkward, but guess what?
You've been moving your head when you talk since you're two years old.
So it's not that hard.
You just have to consciously think about it.
So we practice the four specific skills you really need in order to look relaxed and comfortable when
reading a teleprompter.
Changing your volume.
Changing your speed, pausing and moving your head.
We've done it separately.
Now let's do a take where you're really very consciously putting them all together.
So same speech.
We don't want to come up with new topics, new messages, new material.
Let's work from the same speech off the teleprompter video, record yourself and put it all together.
Now let's really see that we can change the speed, the volume, occasionally pause and have that head
move in a way that looks natural.
Not, you know, we're not trying to be a machine here or look like the top of a water fountain or a
something watering your lawn.
It needs to seem natural and that means it should be inconsistent.
It should move in conjunction with your words and your emphasis.
So let's put it all together now, record it, critique it.
We should be seeing the list go higher of things you like from how you're coming across.
The list of things you don't like should be getting smaller now.
Let's do it now.

--- Use 2 Prompter Screens In a Way that Nobody Will Notice ---

A word about the executive teleprompter.
Now, as I mentioned to you at the beginning, there's a lot of different types of teleprompters.
It could be just an iPad next to your phone or an iPhone next to the camera.
There can be the traditional broadcasters through the lens teleprompter, where you're able to look
right into the camera and there is what public speakers use, where it's on two sheets of glass, about
five feet in front of you on either side, basically
45 degrees this way from dead center and 45 degrees that way.
That's what the president of the United States uses.
I do want to give you a couple of tips on that one, because you've got two different teleprompter screens
in front of you.
And here's what some people do when they have that situation.
They're reading like this for a set amount of time, a couple sentences for 10s, and then they go like
this and they're reading for a set amount of time.
10s.
And then they're like this.
And after a while it kind of seems like they're at the US Open tennis tournament.
It's too consistent.
So what I would recommend is certainly you look at one for a while, maybe you make that longer 30s
and then slowly think of the last sentence there.
Say that out loud here.
Now you come over here for, say, 15 seconds, see what the last sentence is, Say it out there, then
come back.
The whole key is variety.
You just don't want to seem like a clock or anything robotic.
So that's why I recommend if you're going to have the two different screens, don't just go back and
forth because that's a sure sign a dead give away that you're using a teleprompter and not that effectively.
Now, there are other teleprompters that are large and on the ground or even way up high in a stadium
or in an auditorium where it's right below the balcony.
You can see it.
The key, of course, is make sure you know where they are.
Make sure you can see it.
And don't stare at any one of them too long.
And don't be consistent with the way you go around and use them.
You've got to mix it up that way.
You'll just seem like you're speaking to people and that's what we want.

--- Full Speech Practice ---

Now it's time to put it all together.
I want you to get a full speech now for you.
That might be a five minute speech.
It might be a 20 minute speech.
It might be an hour speech.
But whatever the speech is that you're most likely to give are close to what you're likely to give in
the near future.
Let's get the whole speech ready, load it in the teleprompter and let's get ready to give that speech.
Now.
This is where it gets personal.
You can decide how you want to mark up your speech.
Remember, the speech is for your eyes only.
Even if you're using one of the executive teleprompters like the president does, where you have both
sides, you can look at it.
Maybe someone behind you could see it, but don't worry about them.
You're worried about the larger audience and perhaps the TV audience.
So don't worry about what it is.
Mark it up If you want to put in parentheses long pause, do so.
If you want to put in parentheses louder, do that.
If you want to put in parentheses, whisper, do that.
Just don't read it out loud.
Some famous politicians have been caught doing that before.
Message I care.
One famous politician did that.
He wasn't supposed to say that.
It was in the notes in the teleprompter.
So give yourself some notes.
Now load up the speech.
Let's practice the whole speech.
Now, if your speech is 20 minutes and I'm saying practice it and rehearse it, there's 40 minutes right
there.
You've got to deliver the speech.
It's recorded.
You've got to watch it.
There's another 20 minutes.
So add it up.
There's 40 minutes.
So you say, well, I don't have time.
Maybe you don't have time to give the speech.
If you want to save time, it may be easier just to use notes rather than reading.
Again, I will reiterate, using a teleprompter is not about saving time unless you're the president
of the United States and you're giving ten speeches a day, or you are a professional newscaster and
you have to anchor a show for three hours a day and you're reading it every day, then it does save
time.
But for the rest of us speaking about what we do in our business, our politics, our careers, you
should know this stuff, not memorize it, but you should know it.
The teleprompter, if you're going to use it, is to help things go even smoother.
But it requires more practice.
So let's practice your whole speech now.
Video record it, watch it, figure out what you like and what you don't like.

--- Politician Role Models ---

It's time for you to find some role models.
What I'd like you to do is go to YouTube and type in the name of your favorite politician if you have
one, or a world leader.
I don't care about your politics.
I just want you to find someone who gave a huge speech.
And the reason I say politics is because presidential nominees of major parties use teleprompters at
their conventions.
And it's usually a speech that they have rehearsed and practice because they realize more people are
going to watch that than any other speech in the campaign.
So they're typically giving it their best.
I want you to watch your favorite politician or at least someone you can stomach.
I want you to watch their speech.
And now that you kind of know some of the behind the scenes aspects of what it takes to speak on a teleprompter,
I want you to make notes of how they pause, how they change the speed, how they change their tone,
how their volume changes and how they're moving their face, their head, their body, their hands.
So find 1 or 2 of these really pay attention, listen carefully, look carefully, and it will give
you a much better sense of how other people do it Well.

--- TV Role Models ---

Some of my students are skeptical when I tell them they have to move their head when they're speaking
using a teleprompter.
I say, well, T.J., that's not my style.
I never do that.
First of all, you do when you're comfortable and you're talking.
But here's what I want you to do.
I want you to watch five minutes or so of your favorite cable newscast and in fact, flick around to
several of them.
But here's the key I want you to watch.
Without the volume on and look at the top of the show, when the news anchor of the talk show host is
introducing segments, they are typically speaking from a teleprompter.
You can also do this by looking at the broadcast news networks, ABC, NBC, CBS, and just watch at
what the news anchors do.
They're moving their head.
They're moving their face.
Their eyebrows are moving.
They're communicating a great deal when they are reading the news.
Now, news casters tend to have a little stiffer style and they're tending not to use the use their
hands and they're sitting down.
But I do want you to focus on the head movement and the facial expression.
You'll see tremendous variety there, and that can serve as a good role model for you.

--- Potential Disasters ---

There are a lot of different kinds of teleprompters these days.
Some of them you can adjust with an old fashioned knob yourself, some of them with a mouse, some of
them with a foot pedal, and others you have an actual teleprompter operator, someone else doing it
for you.
There are pitfalls with all of these, and there are certain things you need to do to protect yourself.
And I want to go over some of those steps right now so that you're not left unguarded.
If you are going to have another teleprompter operator moving it, you've got to rehearse with that
person and you have to make sure that person is following you.
Otherwise you get back to the same speed, the same tone.
The reason people do this is they are afraid that the words are going to go off the screen and they
won't know what to say.
So you have to be in sync with your teleprompter operator.
If you pause, they better stop because if they keep rolling and you're pausing, you're up a creek
without a paddle, you are in big, big trouble.
So you need to find somebody who's reliable, someone willing to practice with you, or you got to think
twice about even using a teleprompter.
The next thing you have to be prepared for is a teleprompter is used as a part of a computer, even
if it's an iPhone.
Guess what about computers?
They break, they have glitches, they malfunction.
They like electricity.
They get bugs in them.
All of which to say is you still need to have your speech on paper or at least notes.
I prefer having notes consolidated on a single sheet, but if you really want to get every single word
just right, you better have it all on paper because paper doesn't require electricity.
Paper doesn't have glitches on it typically, so it's a good fallback.
I hope you don't have to use it, but it's there if you need it.
There's all sorts of problems that can happen with computers.
Most famously, when Bill Clinton was president and giving his 1995 State of the Union.
What happened was it was uploaded into the teleprompter software as State of the Union.
When the person uploaded it, it said, Do you want to delete State of the Union?
No.
Why do I want to do that?
I'm putting it in so person put no.
And there it was.
State of the Union is in the teleprompter.
He thought everything was fine.
President Clinton gets up to give his State of the Union.
He looks at it and he instantly realizes, Oh, no, that's last year's State of the Union.
So he turns around.
The whole world is watching whispers to Vice President Gore and says, Call Stephanopoulos and get the
correct speech.
We have last year's speech.
Now, Bill Clinton even then was an extraordinarily.
Experienced public speaker, a gifted public speaker, and has, according to many, a near photographic
memory.
So he was able to give the first ten minutes of his speech in a way that no one had any idea there was
a problem.
So but you don't want to have to rely on that.
So assume nothing.
Practice.
Make sure you've got a safety, have it on paper and do that and you will minimize your chances of disaster.

--- Reasons Not to Use a Teleprompter ---

There's a topic I wanted to address at the very beginning of this course, but I didn't want to turn
you off.
I didn't want to scare you away.
But the topic is what is your decision process for actually deciding to use a teleprompter?
Again, there are plenty of good reasons to use a teleprompter if you're a newscaster every day, Well,
you've got to use one.
There's no way you can get the names and the facts straight of brand new stories of news that just happened.
Yes.
If you're giving a political speech and millions and millions of people are watching you and you've
got exactly seven minutes and 28 seconds for your slot on prime time, that may be a good reason.
But many people use a teleprompter because they think it gives them greater control.
Not really, because if you do a bad job on the teleprompter, you're not controlling the outcome.
The outcome of any speech is not what comes out of your mouth.
It's what do people remember, What do they retain?
So they can act upon it.
So if you're reading a teleprompter and a wooden, stiff, phony way, the only outcome is people have
a negative impression of you and don't remember anything you said.
So that's an illusion to think that that's somehow safer.
It's not safer and it's not saving you time.
Many people use a teleprompter because they think it will save the prep time.
As we talked about in the previous lecture, it doesn't save time for most people.
Most of the time they're far better off using a simple page of notes to speak for most business executives
in the world and for that matter, most politicians.
The real danger of a speech is not that they got one word wrong, one comma wrong, and suddenly there's
tremendous criticism that does happen for presidents of countries or heads of of federal banking systems
that can happen.
But for most people, most of the time, the biggest problem in our speech is not that we got one word
wrong and there's a lot of criticism.
The biggest danger for most of us is we're so boring, nobody remembers anything we said.
So that's why I would urge you focus your time on making your speeches interesting and memorable.
And I've got other courses to deal with that.
That's not the point of this course, but that should be your focus.
Having an interesting speech and delivering it in the best possible way, don't use a teleprompter because
everyone else is.
Don't use a teleprompter because there is some technician who's sort of running the conference and says,
Well, everyone else is.
You have to.
It'll be there.
The only reason to use a teleprompter is you've decided that will help you communicate most effectively
with your audience.
That's the only reason to use a teleprompter.
So, for example, I've been speaking to you for this entire course and I'm not using a teleprompter.
There are plenty of times when I do use teleprompters, but I didn't need one for this course because
this is all material I've given hundreds of times to my clients in real life.
So I know this.
So I didn't use a teleprompter.
So please give real thought to what is the best way for you to communicate with your audience.
And it may in fact be notes and not using a teleprompter, but make the judgment based on what will
help the audience, not what might save you time.

--- Secrets from Reagan ---

You heard me mention at the beginning the reason to use a teleprompter is not to save time, but to
really make sure everything goes right and you get the exact wording and phrasing the way you want it.
Now, people think of Ronald Reagan as one of the great communicators of all time.
He was called the Great Communicator.
Regardless of your politics.
Most fair minded people would say Ronald Reagan was a great speaker.
Now, many assume that was because he was an actor and had a lot of experience in front of cameras.
That's partially it.
But the real reason is he brought an actor's discipline of rehearsal to the public speaking process.
So when Reagan had a major speech like the State of the Union address, he would practice the speech
out loud for three hours a night for a week.
Now, he wasn't doing that to memorize the speech.
He was using a teleprompter.
He was doing that to build a comfort with the words, a relationship with the words to get his brain
and mouth and everything in sync.
Used to having those words come out of his mouth in a set way.
After all that practice out loud, he would still spend an entire day practicing on video with the teleprompter.
Again, not doing it to memorize, but doing it so he could get the pauses just right, the emphasis
just right, the head movements just right.
So if Ronald Reagan could spend a whole day doing videotape rehearsal for his teleprompter speeches,
what's your excuse for not spending at least an hour doing it?
There's always time for anything that's important.
If there's no time to practice your speech, your teleprompter speech on video, maybe you shouldn't
make time to give the speech at all.
So please, please practice on video.
That's the real secret of the master communicators.

--- Final Thoughts on the Teleprompter ---

Thanks for joining me on this course on how to use a teleprompter.
I think if you follow the tips, tricks and exercises that I've assigned here, you now have a pretty
good sense of how to look your best, sound your best, and come across comfortable, confident and
relaxed.
If you're using a teleprompter and you're going to know how to use it so that you don't sound like one
of those robots that are instant turnoff to most audiences, I hope all of your speeches and presentations
in life are successful, and if you use a teleprompter that you can use it for maximum effectiveness
and still seem like you're just having a conversation with the audience.
Good luck.

--- Presenting Your Message, And Getting Paid for It ---

Become a professional speaker.
Work from home.
Make $20,000 an hour.
It's easy money.
You'll get rich.
Hold on.
That's the hype.
I'm going to teach you the reality.
Now you can be a professional speaker and you can make money.
But you need to go into this with your eyes open.
I'm going to walk you through it.
I've worked with scores and scores, thousands of speakers, business leaders, politicians and professional
speakers, too.
And some of them make a lot of money.
Some of them make very little money.
One of my first years in the National Speakers Association, a survey was done, and the organization
found that the average member only made $28,000 a year.
And I'm not talking 50 years ago.
This was around 2001.
Now, folks, you can make more money than that.
Flipping burgers is an assistant manager at Burger King.
So the reason to try to be a professional speaker isn't because it's easy money that I can assure you.
You can make money.
You do it the right way.
You can make a lot of money.
But here's the real reason.
In my view, the only reason to want to be a professional speaker, and that is you have a set body
of expertise that you want to share with the world in every way possible in your books, in your blog,
on TV interviews, radio interviews, and yes, in speeches to reach audiences.
That's the reason you've got real expertise and you're trying to change the world.
Now, you may be a political leader and want to change government policy.
You may be an energy efficiency expert and you want to reduce people's energy bills at home.
Your whole area of expertise may be just how to organize people's garages more so they don't go crazy
looking for junk in their garage.
There's a million different areas of expertise you have, but if you don't have a passion.
For some subject matter, it's going to be very, very hard for you to make it as a professional speaker.
Now, let's define some terms.
There are some celebrity speakers, people like Oprah, already famous.
She's making $1 billion a year with other stuff.
And yes, she can make a speech anytime she wants and make $200,000.
She's a professional speaker.
She's making a lot of money.
But that's not her primary business.
Same with Bill Clinton.
Bill Clinton gives 300 speeches a year, the vast majority for free, But he does make a quarter million
dollars a speech when he does speak to corporate audiences.
That sounds pretty professional to me.
So there's a category of professional speakers of people who are just wildly famous.
If you are someone who has won ten NBA championships, well, you're going to be able to speak even
if you're not the greatest speaker.
If you've been the president of a country or a prime minister of a G7 country, yeah, you'll be able
to speak for a living and make a lot of money every time you speak.
Now, for the sake of definitions of this course, I'm going to assume you're not a household name.
You are not already wildly famous.
So my advice is going to be for people who are trying to build a business, have some area of expertise,
some element of professionalism, and are trying to figure out how speaking can be a part of it.
That's what this course is about.
Let's hop in.

--- Here is How to Pick a Profitable Niche ---

So the title of this course is How to Be a Professional Speaker.
And this may confuse some of you and you may want your money back right now.
And that's fine.
I'm happy to give it back to you.
I don't believe your goal should be to be a professional speaker.
What I believe is that your goal should be to have true, deep expertise in something and to be able
to share it to the world in as many possible ways as you can through books, through blogs, through
audios, through radio appearances, TV appearances, YouTube channels, and yes, through speaking
in front of live audiences.
Now, there was a time way back when I'm talking in the 40s, 50s and 60s when there were people who
just were professional speakers because more and more associations were having conventions and they
didn't know what to do.
So this person gave a speech and someone said, Hey, we need a speaker.
I saw Bill Gove speak last week.
Let's get him.
And Bill Gove, a former mentor of mine, was one of the first professional speakers and made a very
nice living, really just delivering a keynote.
For the most part, those days are gone.
The idea that you could just sort of sit back, watch an Anthony Robbins video, go to a Les Brown event,
look at a couple of other motivational speakers on YouTube and say, You know what?
I can do that.
Let me put my own spin on it and announce world.
I'm a speaker.
That cannot be done anymore.
Ladies and gentlemen, let me just tell you right now, you are wasting your time If you think you can
just sort of watch a few, blend it together, have your own spin and come out.
It's much, much harder than that because there's so much competition.
You doubt me.
Go to Google and type in professional speaking or professional speakers or keynote speakers.
It'll break your internet.
There'll be so many hundreds of millions of websites coming up.
There's tremendous competition.
You have to differentiate yourself.
So I think the first thing you have to really decide is not whether I want to be a professional speaker
or how to make myself a professional speaker.
The first thing you've really got to define is what is your core area of expertise?
What's the thing you know so much about that people want to hear you talk about it.
Now I play tennis.
I play tennis my whole life.
I won a tournament or 2 in 1977.
I play tennis now.
I have a tennis court now.
I play a couple of times a week.
I like to talk about tennis.
But you know what?
You'd have to be insane to pay me to lecture about tennis because my knowledge level is very, very
common.
It's low on a 1 to 10 scale.
The tennis rating.
I'm probably a two.
I am a hack player.
I barely know who in the top ten, so it would be virtually impossible for me to sell myself as a speaker
about tennis because my knowledge base is so low.
I haven't written about it.
I haven't studied it.
I haven't thought about it.
So it's not enough to have a mere passing.
I have an interest in tennis.
I play with the guys every Monday night in a league, but that doesn't make me qualified to speak about
tennis.
So the first thing you've got to do is figure out what is the number one thing that you like, that
you care about, that you're interested in, that you could speak about.
But what would you be talking about if no one even paid you?
Too many people go into this idea of I want to be a professional speaker because they went to some positive
speaking rally or some Peter Lowe thing, and it was a speaker after speaker and it seemed glamorous.
And here are these people selling their information products and they're all making $50,000 a day and
I want to be up on the stage.
I might not be a good singer to be a rock star.
I might not have enough talent to be on Broadway, but I could get up and talk and be in front of a
big stage full of people.
That's not the attitude to have.
You will never get there if that is your motivation.
So for starters, you got to figure out what is it that you're good at?
I would suggest actually getting a Venn diagram.
And try to plot out, for example, everything
that you're good at.
So if here's a diagram of every single thing, a circle of all the things you like, stuff you like
to do, here's a list of things that people already pay for.
So you may like to collect seashells, but there's not a huge demand for people who like to collect
seashells of getting paid for that.
You got to look at the marketplace.
What does the public want?
What do corporations pay for and what is it you're good at?
So, for example, I love talking about politics.
I love giving my analysis on current affairs.
But guess what?
That's an interest of mine.
Aren't any corporations willing to pay for that?
Unless you're really, really famous and you worked at the White House, then maybe you can get a gig
at Fox or MSNBC or CNN.
Other than that, you can't get it.
Public is not paying for political analysis.
They can get it for free on every website, every blog and on TV.
So that's an example of this being over here in this part of the Venn diagram, complete, utterly useless.
You have to find something that's in this intersection of all three circles.
So for me, I have had a lifelong interest in public speaking and in media and in politics helping people
communicate effectively.
Well, is that a good topic?
Corporations hire people to do that all the time.
Corporate communications departments hire people to speak on that and to train on that.
Individuals buy books on that and hire trainers for that.
So that was my sweet spot.
Something I like to do, something I'm good at.
Corporations pay for it and individuals pay for it too.
That's my sweet spot.
And that's ultimately a lot more important than having the best voice in the world or the best stage
presence.
Because you can have you can frankly teach a monkey to have good stage presence if they're just giving
the same old motivational spiel of have goals, focus on your goals, associate with people already
successful, you're not going to be able to differentiate yourself.
You're not going to get booked and you're not going to get paid.
So here's the first bit of homework for you.
If you could only talk about one thing and I'll give you ten words, but I would really prefer five
words or less.
What is that subject matter?
What is the topic?
It can't be.
I help people with sales, customer service, negotiation, speaking skills and blah blah blah blah.
You might be good at all those things, but there's no way you're going to be able to market yourself
to the world as good enough to speak on those topics.
You're far better off focusing on one thing, one thing only, then build out the others if you can
get.
There are exceptions to these rules.
Alan Weiss, You should read his book on Million Dollar Speaker.
He who knows what he does, but he speaks all the time and he says, Don't position yourself.
I think that works for Alan Weiss and it works for people who've been in the business for 25, 35,
50 years.
I don't think it works for anyone today.
It's so hard to get any momentum to get yourself established and well known by anyone and to have a
following.
You're going to confuse the marketplace.
If you try to be good at five things or to speak on five things, pick one thing.
That's your homework right now in one sentence, ten words or less, preferably five.
Tell me, what is it you do to help people in the world?
Write that down now.

--- Be the King of all Media for Your Niche ---

Once you've found your niche, you have got to figure out how to create something interesting to add
to this niche.
I recommend that you create new content every single day.
Now, for years I did it seven days a week.
I at minimum create content five days a week.
Now you figure out what's best for you.
But if you're only creating a new piece of content once a month, it's just not going to add up to much.
Frankly, unless you're really doing something special.
I would recommend that you write a blog post every single day.
It may only be one idea, maybe one paragraph, but write about what it is you do based on other readings,
other research thoughts, reflections, your own original ideas, synthesizing, not stealing, but
synthesizing what others are doing so that you can be a guide to this particular subject matter.
It doesn't matter if it's corporate strategy, it doesn't matter if it's estate planning.
Whatever your subject is.
There are other people writing about it, talking about it.
You need to be the person that people trust to synthesize what's going on and to say what's significant
and to deliver new insights.
So I would recommend that you write every single day on this subject matter, even if it's only one
paragraph.
Two of my first eight books were nothing but collections of blog posts.
The more you write, the more you write, the easier it gets.
The faster it gets, the more you are disciplined to always be looking out for ideas.
And that little light bulb is churning even at night.
If you know you have to write, if you have to write content on your area of expertise, now you want
to be a professional speaker.
So I would recommend that you speak every day on your matter of interest, your subject matter.
Now you can say, Well, how do you do that?
In the old days, you'd have to go through the phone book and call the Rotary Club.
Hey, do you need a speaker?
I'll speak for free.
And I'm not suggesting you don't occasionally speak someplace like that, but that's a tremendous amount
of work.
Just to find an audience of 20 people these days.
You shouldn't have to work that hard.
Simply speak.
Turn your video camera on on your webcam, record yourself speaking, put it on YouTube If you don't
have a YouTube channel now, what are you waiting for?
It is absolutely one of the best tools ever for professional speakers and aspiring professional speakers,
because here's a chance for you to speak every day to get feedback, to hone your skill, to get more
comfortable, and to go deeper into your ideas.
Now, some of you might not like my style.
You might not even like me, but I doubt any of you think I'm nervous now or uncomfortable.
And I can tell you if I were any more relaxed, I'd be asleep Right now.
I'm comfortable because I've done 10,000 videos on YouTube and I've done a hundred courses online.
Plus I've given thousands of speeches.
And because I'm speaking every single day, I get comfortable with it.
It gets easier, you get better at it.
So in a sense, you're far, far advantaged over people trying to enter the professional speaking special.
The by the way, if you ever make a mistake and you're on the platform, just don't tell anyone.
Smile and keep on going.
So you have a huge advantage over people who are trying to enter professional speaking.
30 years ago, they might only give one speech a month and that's begging, spending hours begging for
time to do that.
You can give a speech every single day.
Now, a typical day, I speak to 2000 people every day.
Now, that's not a huge audience compared to Lady Gaga style audiences on YouTube and Justin Bieber.
But 2000 people a day watch my videos on YouTube.
And until just a few years ago, that would have made me probably one of the top ten speakers in the
entire world, if not the number one speaker in the entire world.
If you compare that to speaking to live audiences.
So it's never been easier to find an audience to try out your ideas.
Now, is every one of my videos brilliant and have 10,000 views now?
Do I sometimes have an idea that isn't perfect?
Sure.
Do people criticize me sometimes in a mean, vicious way, saying you're old, you're bald, you're
ugly, you're obedient.
Yeah.
But every so often.
Someone gives me insightful criticism.
That's very helpful.
That makes me think, that makes me grow, that makes me get better.
And that's what you can get by putting yourself out there speaking.
Because if you're new to the professional speaking gig, it's believe me, it's not a simple matter
of calling up a speaker bureau and saying, Hey, I'm ready.
Just start booking me at major conventions at $10,000 a pop.
It's not going to work that way.
But you can book yourself today on YouTube and you can book yourself today on your own blog.
So that's what I recommend you do.
You need to become a content creation machine.
If you want to be a professional speaker, you look at the best speakers of the world and quite often
Seth Godin, for example, huge fortunes.
Public speaking turns down most of his speaking requests.
He can speak anywhere he wants huge, huge speaking fees.
Well, he's also written a dozen books, bestsellers.
He has a blog every day that's read by millions, starting to see the connection there.
Look at someone like a Jeffrey Gitomer, wildly successful sales guru, speaks all over the world,
hundreds of speeches per year.
He's written a dozen books, virtually all of them New York Times best sellers.
He writes every single day.
I've been in his office in studios.
He reads sales books every single day.
He writes every single day.
He creates videos, if not every day, very, very frequently.
And he gives speeches all over the world constantly.
So if you want to be a speaker and really have long term success, you've got to pick the niche, as
we've talked about earlier, and you've got to pick a niche that you care enough about to write about
daily, to speak about daily, to analyze other news on that subject area and to be a true, true industry
expert.
As you've heard me mention before, the real success for people these days, it's not the people who
just call themselves I'm a professional speaker.
It's for people who have deep, deep, deep industry expertise.
You think of sales and a lot of people do think Jeffrey Gitomer, he is a sales guru.
He's very, very good at what he does and has a huge, huge following.
Who is the expert in your industry and how can you do better?
I'm not suggesting you copy that person, but you should certainly be aware of what they're doing,
where you disagree, how they communicate and how they create content.
So that's my challenge to you.
Now I need you to come up with a plan, an actual editorial calendar of what you are going to create.
If you are serious about being a professional speaker, then you need to be prepared to write every
single day on your blog on a particular subject, and you need to be prepared to speak every single
day on your subject.
Now, folks, a lot of people say this.
I practice what I preach, especially with the speaking every day.
Go to my YouTube channel, YouTube.com slash TJ Walker, and you will find 10,000 videos.
Some of them don't have that many views, but you put it all up.
I have 3.5 million plus.
That's more views than the National Speakers Association YouTube channel.
It's more than Toastmasters.
It's more than Anthony Robbins.
So folks, I'm practicing what I preach and I don't make a lot of money off my YouTube videos, but
I do get clients that way, and I do get advertising revenue from the YouTube videos, too.
You can do that too.
So in a sense, you can be a professional speaker tomorrow or even today.
Speak monetize the video and you'll make some money.
Now, unless you're doing something generating millions of views, it's not going to be a lot of money.
But when you look at what creating a YouTube video does, it helps you refine your expertise, improve
your speaking skills, and it markets you to the entire world and the second largest search engine in
the world.
And people can see you speak.
And instead of paying for this marketing, you get a few pennies, occasionally even a few dollars back.
To me, that's the greatest deal in the world.
So don't wait to be invited on the CBS Evening News or your favorite prime time show on a network news
channel.
Don't wait for that.
Don't wait for the first $25,000 keynote speech to build yourself a big professional studio.
Just use your $10 webcam if you need to or nothing else.
Hold your cell phone up.
Capture Video.
Some of the most successful videos I have with tens and tens of thousands of views were ones where an
idea came to me and I just spoke right to my cell phone, uploaded it to the YouTube while at the barber
shop.
So do not wait.
I need you to come up with an editorial calendar.
How?
When on your schedule.
And how much are you going to write daily?
How many videos are you going to produce every single week?
Ideally, every day.
When I say produce a video, I just mean simple talking head.
I would not.
If you want to be a professional speaker, waste a lot of time on all sorts of editing special effects,
green screen.
Just talk.
If you're being hired as a speaker, you're not being hired as the video producer.
You're hired to speak.
So all of my videos, in fact, you can even see in this course here, I don't have any production values
other than a good light, good audio and a good camera.
There's no editing, there's no graphics, there's no post-production.
It's very simple.
I would recommend you do the same thing.
So come up with your editorial calendar right now.
What are you going to produce on a daily basis?
It's critical to your long term success as a speaker.

--- Develop a Tribe That Will Follow You Into Battle ---

So you've got a plan for creating content.
I hope you really can stick to it because this is the sort of thing if you write a blog every day for
a month and then you say, Well, you know, I'm a little busy, I'll pick up again.
Once we get through this tough week, you'll never write the blog again.
Six months go by, you look, it'll be empty and it will be worthless.
You'll have wasted your time.
Same with a YouTube channel.
If you say, Well, I'm going to do five this week and let me take a week off and then you'll never
come back to it.
You need a regular schedule for your YouTube followers.
Now, here's why we're doing all this.
You need to be a part of a community, and B, you need to be a leader of that community and you need
to have your own tribe.
Seth Godin really stresses this concept of the tribe, whether you call it a tribe, followers, people
who love your stuff, fans, it doesn't really matter what you call it.
You've got to find a group of people who just who care about your stuff, your ideas.
They might not love you or want to marry you, but they respect your ideas and think of you when that
subject comes up.
That's what you need and that's all you need.
Now, that's the good news.
That's all you need is a tribe.
The bad news is it's really hard to find a tribe because you are competing with billions of other people
out there who are posting on Facebook and posting on their blog and creating YouTube channels.
It's hard to cut through the clutter.
And you can't just be pushing your stuff all the time.
You've got to be engaging people.
Anyone, no matter how time consuming it is.
Anyone who puts a comment on one of my YouTube channels, I respond, Unless they're just saying nasty,
nasty things about me, then I might not.
But if it's anything of substance, I respond.
Someone posted a comment on my blog.
I respond, and you have to engage people.
It's not just about being the expert.
There was a time pre-Internet, pre-social media 15, 20, 30 years ago where it was all about you're
the expert on you, you're Martha Stewart, you're the expert, you're pushing it down and people are
looking up to you.
These days, it's not quite like that.
You need to be a part of a community.
The best person is really an expert on this, and I would recommend his books.
Gary Vaynerchuk of Wine Library Guy now a VaynerMedia he his rule of thumb is for every hour you spend
creating content, you should probably spend about eight hours responding to other people's questions,
responding to what they ask.
It's almost all response in his mind.
He would spend 15 minutes on his TV wine library, show a night, and then spend hour after hour in
the evening answering every single person's question about wine and what's the best wine for fish?
And that's how we got famous.
That's how he created an entire empire.
And that's how he gets speaking gigs at $40,000 or more a pop because he became so famous because thousands,
if not hundreds of thousands, even millions of people cared about him.
And they watched his show.
They went to his blog, they followed him on Twitter.
And he's been able to use that audience for all of his other business ventures and best selling books
and keynote speeches.
So that's the hard part about all this, is you have to find a tribe of people who care about your stuff.
Now, it doesn't have to be huge.
Some leading experts on marketing contend that if you just have a thousand people who really care about
your stuff, that's enough to make a nice living.
Not just from keynote speaking, but from selling your products services.
It's more important to define your niche and be the leader of that niche than to be the number one expert
on motivational speaking in the world.
Pick your niche wisely and then you've got to create great content.
You've got to create new content, you've got to create original content, and you have to take the
time to engage with people.
And there are no shortcuts, believe me.
There's all sorts of gimmicks out there and software programs.
You can buy 200,000 Twitter followers.
That's not what I'm talking about.
That is a complete, utter waste of time.
The value of having 200,000 Twitter followers is if those people actually read your stuff, like it,
respect it, retweet it, and occasionally do what you suggest they should do if you bought the 200,000
Twitter.
Followers or the 500,000 Facebook likes.
It's completely worthless.
I would rather have 50 Twitter followers who liked me and cared about me and respected than 5 million
Twitter followers.
If it's just something that was purchased or manipulated somehow.
So that's the bad news, is there really aren't any shortcuts to creating a tribe these days because
content is everywhere.
You can Google any subject matter in the world and come up with millions of pages.
Content is everywhere.
You've got to figure out what can you do where you really add something that's special, that's different,
that's unique.
How can you add something to the conversation already?
To build a tribe, to build fans, to build followers?
If you solve this problem, the speaking gigs will come.
If you don't follow, if you don't solve this problem, then the whole speaking gig thing is going to
be a constant effort.
It's going to be a real challenge and it's going to be just like pulling teeth.
It's not going to be a fun process.
So don't skip this process.
And I realize we can't just do it now in one homework assignment in five minutes.
But I do need you to give some real thought to who your tribe is.
I want you to describe this person who is the sort of person, how old are they?
What kind of company do they work in?
What industry do they work in?
What are their concerns?
Why does this person need your expertise and wants your expertise?
If you are an expert on corporate strategy in the tech industry, then your audience very well may be
CEOs, CEOs and the top 100 tech companies might not be a huge audience, but that's an audience that
hires a lot of speakers and they have a lot of money for consulting and everything else.
So that's what you've got to figure out right now, is who's likely to be your tribe?
Where are they now?
What websites are they going to now?
Constantly amazed by people who tell me, I want to be a professional speaker and I speak on change
management and I say, Oh, really?
Well, so tell me, who are the top ten authors and experts you respect?
What blogs do you go to?
Who's YouTube channels do you already watch?
Who do you think are the best experts in the field and who do you think are overrated?
And often it's like, Ah, well, I don't know, but I know I'm good.
Really.
You can't be a real expert on something unless you know what all the competition is doing.
So I need you to focus right now and figure out paint a picture.
Who is your audience?
Who are who are the possible people who are going to make up your tribe?
Doesn't have to be a billion people, doesn't have to be a million people, but it's got to be more
than you and your immediate family and friends.
So think of that and write your notes down.

--- Making Sure Your Business Model is Profitable ---

If you're really going to be a professional speaker, you need a business model.
And your business model can't just be.
Well, I wrote this great book over the last three years.
I'm going to send it off to some New York publishers and then I'm sure it's going to be published.
It'll be a bestseller, and I'll get on the Today Show and Good Morning America, and I'll be rich and
famous, and then all the speaking bureaus will want me.
That's not a business model.
That's a lottery ticket.
And if you're serious about being a professional speaker, that's just not going to cut it.
So as I mentioned to you earlier, again, if your goal is to be a professional speaker, that's frankly
a waste of time.
Your goal should be I have a particular area of expertise and I want to help the world in a lot of different
ways.
And one of those ways will be giving keynote speeches.
But if you're really serious about the expertise, there should be a lot of different ways you can make
money from it.
Consulting should be one of those revenue models.
Writing books very may very well be part of your revenue model, although be careful.
Most people I know who write books, even best selling books, don't really make any money.
I've written eight books, and I can tell you if I had to live on what I made from books, I would be
very thin and lean right now.
Books primarily are a means of promotion as opposed to making a lot of money.
But every so often someone does write a book that makes them a lot of money.
And more important, it's an important credential for your business.
These days, I would recommend before you even write a book, create an online course.
There are a lot of good places online where you can create courses and sell them and make money.
Places like Udemy and other courses like that, other online platforms that are open that will allow
you to speak record on video and create a course around it so you can have a revenue source from online
courses, from books, you can have revenue from YouTube ads, you can have revenue from keynote speeches,
which we'll talk about.
Consulting If you're already an employment lawyer, you have a law practice that's a part of your business
model, ideally, and something that doesn't have quite the glamour of professional speaking on the
stage with a thousand adoring people looking up is training, giving seminars, breakout sessions.
That's primarily my niche.
Now I do give keynote speeches for money and I do make money from YouTube and I do get royalties from
books and even DVDs and CDs, and I do make money from online courses, but most of my money, most
of my revenue for my business comes from corporations and governments and non-government organizations
hiring me for a half day or a full day of public speaking training and media training.
So I'm speaking but often to small groups.
So training very well may very well may be a part of your revenue mix.
So don't neglect that.
You need to come up with all the different ways that you can make money.
But here's the kicker and here's what everyone gets wrong.
The important thing is not having multiple streams of revenue.
And the important thing is not having passive income.
Someone starts telling you about passive income, grab your wallet and run.
There have been more speakers who've potential speakers, aspiring speakers who have lost their house
because some conman sold them on the idea of passive income.
I have never worked so hard in my life as I have for so called passive income.
You've got to come up with your business model and the first thing you need is your main driver.
What's the one thing that's going to make most of your money?
You look at the most successful people in the world who speak.
They typically have one base.
Rush Limbaugh has written best selling books.
He's had a TV show.
He gives speeches.
He's had his own tie line.
But all flows from that daily radio show.
Howard Stern has TV shows, guest appearances on other shows, books, movies.
But it all flows from that daily radio show.
Now, I'm not suggesting you have to be a radio star.
What I am suggesting is you need a base, because I've seen countless aspiring professional speakers
spinning their wheels of, Oh, I'm going to write a book here and I've got a DVD product here and I've
got a CD product here, and I have this recurring revenue, passive income here.
And you add it all up and it's pennies, and three months later they've made $300 and they can't pay
their rent and they have to go back to work managing Burger King.
That's not professional speaking.
You've got to figure out a way of making money.
Now, if you're currently a full time teacher or an insurance adjuster, there's nothing wrong with
that.
Keep your job and keep doing this stuff on your other free time.
You can make your YouTube videos at 10:00 at night.
It can work around your schedule because you're booking yourself, so you need a source of revenue.
I don't care if you're goal is to give all the money away to charity and help poor people, that's fine.
But you're not going to help anyone else.
You're not going to be taken seriously if you're not dressed nicely.
No one wants to see someone up on a stage.
You don't have to be in a suit and tie, but you can't look like you don't know where your next meal
is coming from and make it as a professional speaker.
I'm sorry.
It's just not going to happen again.
You don't have to wear a suit and tie.
You've got to wear something that is appropriate to what your message is about.
So you need a business model.
And if that part of that business model is doing the old job you hate until you get things going and
do that, don't quit too soon because then your family and friends are going to be sick of you living
on their couch and they're going to be laughing at you, calling yourself the success coach and you're
unsuccessful.
There has to be something that's plausible there.
So that's what I need you to do now.
Come up with a business plan.
I want to know all your sources of revenue that you see yourself making money from.
But most important, I want to know your main source of revenue.
I want to know that if you could only do one thing.
Maybe it's consulting, maybe it's billing by the hour.
As a practicing attorney.
I want to know, what is the one thing you would do that you can do, that you will do that will already
support you if none of the other stuff came through.
It's critical that you have this down.
Think about it.
Ponder it.
Write it down now.

--- Marketing ---

So you've got your business model, you've got your area of expertise, you're creating content.
What's the best way of marketing yourself as a speaker?
Well, this is the question that people grapple with.
It's the question of the ages for professional speakers and aspiring professional speakers.
And the fact is it changes.
There was a time when you could buy mailing lists, get your demo tape, do a lot of mass mailings,
send out DVDs.
And if the timing was right, your subject was you could really catch fire.
That did work.
Those days are over.
The best way to market yourself is to define your niche.
And when someone goes to Google and has never heard of you and types in sales Guru, they find you.
If you're the sales guru, if they want to know change management, they're looking for expertise in
that.
They find you first.
How do you get to be number one in Google for your search term?
Well, you need to be creating great content every single day and have people talking about it, linking
it, retweeting it.
And you're probably going to need a search engine optimization company as well, which means you're
going to need money.
And that's why we talked about the business model.
So that's why you need to be consulting and keeping your day job.
You need money for those things.
You need to really establish yourself so that if someone types in your phrase on Google, they find
you.
If they go to YouTube and type in the phrase, they see your video, they go to Amazon, type in the
phrase, and the first three books are all written by you.
That's the number one way to market yourself as a speaker.
You want to just bombard people.
You want to have people saying, My God, I see you everywhere.
If they follow your particular niche and your particular industry, that's the number one way of marketing
yourself.
That can't be done overnight.
You can't simply hire a speaker marketer who's going to put together that demo tape and send it out.
And boy, you can start cashing the checks and getting the first class tickets to Hawaii to speak at
that dental conference.
It just doesn't work that way anymore.
So my advice is you've got to focus on creating great content, create a tribe of people who care about
you and let them constantly see you speaking.
That's why you got to do videos.
It also means you have to speak in front of real audiences as often as possible, even if it's free
for now, because that way you can get more video of yourself, which, by the way, even a so-called
free speech is never free because you're going to be selling your online courses, your books, your
videos, your consulting, you're using that as promotion.
The rule of thumb I have for free speaking is if it's in my town and they don't have any problem with
me marketing other things I'm doing, then I may do it.
If it fits my schedule, I certainly am not going to travel nor would I recommend you travel anywhere
where you're speaking for free.
The other option for speaking these days is through Skype video.
I give speeches all over the world.
I've given a speech to business groups in in New Zealand.
I'm getting ready to give a speech in Iran, believe it or not, without having to leave home.
I speak through Skype.
So one of the things you should have is not a fancy, expensive studio, but for example, what I have
here, this is just a TV screen.
I mean, it's an old TV.
It's not even a big TV.
And TV screens these days costs practically nothing here.
See, I'm turning it off now.
I'm turning it back on.
It's very, very simple thing.
You can see the TV.
I do have an old closet that I've turned into a TV studio, a couple of lights and a broadcast quality
camera, and that's really all it is to it.
And now, because I turn that off, you'll see what's going on in the backdrop.
So it's a very simple production.
These are some of the things you need if you really want to be taken seriously as a professional speaker.
So I want you to focus on that right now.
Think of all the different areas where you can speak, think of how you can monetize it and think of
how you can let people know when people say, Hey, this is great, you're fantastic.
Where can I get more of you?
Let them know, Hey, I give professional speeches.
Let me know if your organization needs a speaker.

--- Setting Speaking Fees ---

Fees.
What do you charge?
Everyone always wants to know.
What is your fee?
How much you make?
How much should I charge?
If you are a professional speaker aspiring and you're not used to getting fees, this can feel awkward.
This can feel scary.
You certainly like as much money as possible, but you want experience and you want more video and you
want to be in front of people.
Here's my recommendation.
If it is a business organization, a trade association, and they say, What is your fee?
Just say my standard fee is $5,000.
Don't say anything after that.
Wait and see what they have to say.
If it's a serious organization and they are looking for professional speakers, that's considered about
the bottom there.
That shouldn't be a problem.
Now, there are plenty of exceptions to these rules.
If you are speaking to the bar association and you're a lawyer and you want to speak about international
patent law and all the other speakers, there are lawyers and no one's getting paid, chances are you're
not going to get paid.
But it still might be a great opportunity for you because someone in the audience might give you a client
that generates millions of dollars of fees for your firm.
So I'm not saying you should never, ever, ever speak without being paid.
Everybody speaks without getting their full fee.
Plenty of times when U2 goes on David Letterman, they're not getting paid well.
They're getting the union scale of $1,000, but they're not really getting paid for that.
They're doing it to get in front of a larger audience to sell albums and CDs.
So don't kid yourself.
There are a lot of people in the professional speaking circuit talk about integrity.
You can't ever drop a single penny.
Everyone charges differently from time to time.
George Clooney charges 20 to $25 million for some movies.
Other movies he might do for 200,000.
It just depends.
Any time you fly somewhere, every person on that airplane may be paying a different fee for that ticket.
It's variable pricing.
So there's some flexibility here.
But you do need a starting point.
And I do believe if you want to be treated seriously as a professional, you need to have a set starting
point.
And you probably shouldn't go less than $5,000.
The easiest way to increase your fees, frankly, is to be so busy doing other stuff that you can easily
say no.
Now you can also just arbitrarily decide, This is my value, this is what I want.
And I would thoroughly recommend Alan Weiss's books on professional speaking and selling on value versus
time.
Excellent, excellent writer and someone who has shaped the professional speaking industry.
So I would recommend his books to give you more guidance on charging.
But here's the thing.
Whatever you do, it can't be like 2000.
The second somebody hears doubt in your voice, they're going to think, We're going to get this person
for free.
This person is going to be paying us to speak at this event.
So you can't be hesitant.
You can't have doubt.
You can negotiate sometimes.
Maybe this particular organization you're speaking to has an audience of people who could be major,
major corporate clients to your consulting firm and generate millions of dollars.
And maybe there could be times when it's more valuable for you to have a full page ad in the convention
handout, the convention manual catalogue, than it would to get a $10,000 fee.
Whatever it is, you've got to decide what your value is, your time and what value you want from this
organization, what they can give you.
Cash Money is obviously the best value, the most convertible and most flexible, but there may be other
things as well.
So sometimes you do have to get creative but have a starting point, have a base and be ready to tell
people that with absolute, complete confidence.

--- Developing World Class Platform Skills ---

So this is the very last lesson in this entire course.
And only now are we going to talk about your platform skills, your actual speaking skills.
Why is that?
Some people think that's crazy.
You want to be a professional speaker.
You've got to be a great speaker, right?
Well, yes, you do have to be a great speaker.
But the reason I place this last is based on all my research and everyone I know in the industry, having
been in the speaking world at some capacity for the last 30 years, this is the easiest part.
Now I'm a speech coach.
Everyone has a bias.
I think I could train a dog at this point to be a fantastic keynote speaker.
That's the easy part.
The hard part is do you have a real passion for this subject?
Are you really creating great content?
Do you have a tribe having a tribe of people who care passionately about your ideas?
That's hard.
Having a business model where you make a lot of money and some of that money goes back into more promotion?
That's hard.
Speaking in an interesting, captivating, compelling way is relatively easy.
Now I have a lot of courses on how to be a great speaker, and if you write to me after seeing this,
I'll give you a pass to that for free.
But all you really need to know is if you want to be a great speaker, you've got to focus on a handful
of ideas.
You have to have a story for each idea to flesh it out and make it interesting, compelling and memorable.
If you want to be a professional speaker, you have to walk around and look at people and gesture.
You can't be standing behind a lectern like some boring professor or some tedious, scared CFO.
You can't be reading bullet points on a PowerPoint.
You can use PowerPoint, but you've got to use images.
And you have to be compelling and interesting.
You've got to be memorable.
You can't simply be a competent speaker.
There's a huge, huge difference between being somebody in your corporation that's seen as a good,
confident speaker and being a professional speaker.
You can be a competent speaker in most corporations as long as you don't put everybody to sleep or drool
or mess up the PowerPoint order.
You're seen as a good speaker.
Well, that's obviously not going to be enough in the professional speaking world.
You have to have the intellectual content.
You have to have the emotion with the stories and you have to have the stage mechanics in play so that
you're comfortable, you're walking around, you're gesturing, you're not nervous.
You can't be holding scripts.
Now you can have notes if no one sees them, but you can't be using teleprompters unless you're incredibly
famous.
These are the basic performance skills you have now.
I'll give you the one hour course in 30s here.
You want to get good at speaking?
You keep practicing on video.
Watch yourself do more of the stuff you like.
Do less of the stuff you don't like, and do it again and again.
And keep watching yourself on video until you think you're great.
Do that.
You'll have the speaking skills you need.
That's easy.
Having a tribe, having a business model much harder.
But by all means, go ahead and start building your speaking skills.
They need to be not good, but great.

--- Advancing Your Professional Speaking Career ---

This concludes this course on how to be a professional speaker.
And in summary, I think you realize by now I don't think you should aspire to be a professional speaker.
Now, I do want you to speak and I do want you to make money.
But you should aspire for world class excellence in a subject matter, and then you should aspire to
share that knowledge, those insights, to help as many people as possible through every means possible,
through your blog, through your YouTube channel, through Facebook, through books, through videos,
through online courses.
And yes, by speaking in front of large audiences as a keynote speaker, as a professional speaker.
And the way to do this is by forming a tribe, being so passionate about a subject matter, going so
deep, knowing more about it than anyone else, having more insights than anyone else, and having a
huge group of people, or even a medium sized group of people who really care about your insights.
Do that and let the world know that you speak and speak and speak and you'll get better and better.
And here's the ultimate marketing tip for speaking.
The more you speak, the more you'll speak, especially if the speech you give on Tuesday is a great
speech.
More and more invitations.
You'll get Wednesday to speak the next month and the next month and the next month.
So I wish you great success in your speaking career.
But more importantly, I wish you huge success in your career as a world class expert in your field.
I'm TJ Walker.
I hope to see you on the platform.

--- This is How You Will Communicate on Skype, Google Hangouts, Etc ---

Presenting online.
Now, you may already be a comfortable speaker, face to face, talking in front of crowds, talking
to the media.
But in a sense, that's easier than speaking online.
When you're speaking to a live audience, you can look people in the eye, you can ask them questions,
they can ask you back.
There can be an interactivity when you're speaking to a reporter, a talk show host, you can see a
real person there.
But online is in a sense, more difficult than those because you can't see the people looking at you
unless it's a live Skype forum.
So there is something different about presenting online.
This course is going to give you tips to increase the odds that you're successful and that you'll know
how to come across comfortable, confident, relaxed any time you have to communicate online because
it is a little different.
And for some people it's the hardest type of communication.
And because of that, people often grab on to crutches that really make things worse.
For example, nothing's worse than just hearing a voice and seeing a bunch of slides with bullet points
come by.
And when you think of presenting online, that's probably what you think of.
I would say that's the lazy man's, the lazy woman's way of doing it.
These days, virtually every computer has a webcam, so there's no reason why people can't actually
see you speaking now.
It doesn't mean you can't have slides, but if you've got an opportunity to present in an online environment
on Skype, on a webinar, on Google Chat Room, wherever it is, use it.
Don't hide behind a little picture or video image.
So your first assignment here is pick a topic about five minutes or so that you have to present to people
in an online environment.
Think of the topic.
Start thinking about what you want to say.

--- Tricks for Look Good on Camera - Presentation Skills ---

So let me address the number one reason most people don't present online where you actually see them.
It's because people don't know how to look their best.
They're afraid of looking stupid, scared, nervous, uncomfortable, unflattering, double chins showing.
All legitimate reasons.
We're all human beings.
We all have some level of vanity.
So might as well come to grips with this.
I'm going to show you exactly how to come across your best.
The number one problem most people have when they are presenting online is they freeze.
I'm here today to tell you about the professional services at my X, Y, Z company and everything freezes
except their mouth.
So the best thing you can do is to move move the way you do when you're normally relaxed, talking to
a friend, talking to a colleague.
Now, it's easier to say that than it is to do it.
You're going to have to practice.
But the thing to remember is you have to move your head.
See how my head is moving.
If you doubt me, hit the mute button on the video now and you'll see my head is still moving.
You want to move your head, You want to move your face.
You also want to move your body.
And you do want to move your hands.
Now, even though you might not see my hands, my hands are moving.
Because when you move your hands, your body moves more, your voice has more fluctuation to it.
Those things will have you looking relaxed and comfortable.
So you want movement.
The next thing you have to remember is you've got to lean forward a little bit.
Now I'm standing for this.
It's probably going to be easier for you to be sitting.
This is just how I have my studio set up.
But if you're doing this from your laptop or your desktop, no reason why you can't sit.
But here's what happens.
If you're sitting back relaxed, you're going to look like you have a double chin.
Even if you don't have a double chin, you're going to look fatter and heavier than you are, even if
you're not overweight.
So the worst position you can ever have is sitting back.
The next big mistake people have is sitting up perfectly straight because now I look scared and stiff
and nervous.
You need to lean forward about 15 degrees into the camera.
So here, I mean, from a side view, you can now see I am leaning forward.
It's not necessarily a good posture in the traditional sense, but it will make you look best on TV.
It creates a stronger jawline and the camera latches on to your face.
The other thing that's crucial, your eyes, if you're trying to look at the camera and then you have
your notes up on the wall or a teleprompter over here, you become literally shifty eyed.
Now, again, as I mentioned in an earlier lecture, there's nothing wrong with occasionally glancing
down, looking at notes and coming back and doing it again.
But most of the time you should be looking at the camera.
The key, of course, is you have to keep moving your head because if your head freezes and nothing
else is moving again, it looks like a robot.
You don't seem believable.
The other thing that's important on camera is you need a little bit of a smile because if you're just
like this and talking like this, it's going to make your face look blank, scared, flat, uninterested.
So you need a little bit of a smile on your face just to look relaxed and comfortable.
So these are the basics.
I want you to record yourself on video now, specifically practicing, moving your face, moving your
eyebrows, moving your head, moving your body and moving your hands.
Do it.
All right, now record it and then look at it.
See what you think.

--- Become a Total Professional by Doing These Things ---

When you are presenting online, realize that you can start communicating with people before they ever
sign on to see you, before they're ever watching that YouTube video, before they ever sign on for
that 1 p.m. webinar start time.
You can communicate by emailing them content in advance.
Now, here's where the typical PowerPoint slide with lots of numbers and lots of words, graphs, charts.
It can be handy because if you are presenting to 50 colleagues around the country within your trade
organization or perhaps within your company, email them if you can get the emails in advance, your
entire presentation document, background material, white papers.
Now you may be saying, well, if I do that, no one will want to show up.
No one will listen.
It doesn't work like that.
Friends.
More is more.
The more you give people, the more they will want from you.
And they will not complain, I promise you that.
Well, that was the same thing as what I read and memorized because people don't remember much.
They certainly don't remember something glancing at it quickly or reading it on a cell phone and then
hearing you talk about it two days later.
Now, of course, you shouldn't be reading your PowerPoint, the same thing you send to them in your
presentation.
We'll talk about how you actually present later.
But I do want to stress, it's a great, great opportunity for you to start the communication process
by emailing people text documents in advance of your actual live webinar Skype meeting.
Go to meeting.
Now, frequently I'm asked to train people on, for example, media training in a live webinar before
I ever talk to them.
I send them not one, but two of my media training books to read those who want to read it, read it,
those who don't want to read it, don't read it.
But it at least it gives people an opportunity.
It also helps cement my reputation in their minds of, Hey, this guy is serious about this stuff.
He's authored a couple of books on just this one niche subject.
The other thing is, when I've touched on certain themes in the presentation, they're more likely to
go back and read the document I sent to them in advance.
So keep in mind, and this applies to presentations in real life too, when you're face to face, don't
be afraid to give people information in advance.
I guarantee you if you email people a large PDF or a book or a white paper a week before your presentation
or a day before your presentation, they're not going to sit there, print that out, start watching
you in this online environment, and then be flipping through a paper text to see where it tracks.
I understand sometimes people are concerned with that.
Don't be.
But again, this is all predicated on the assumption that you're not simply going to email them a whole
bunch of bullet points and then be reading the bullet points from the same document.
You need to use a different document.
Keep in mind that any group you speak to, there are going to be some people who are really low level
interest in what you're talking about.
They'll just show up and even then, half the time they're doing this or they've got another screen
open if they're watching you online, there are some people who are moderately interested.
They're not going to do anything before or after, but they will pay attention.
But they're going to be some people who are highly, highly interested in this topic that you're discussing,
and they're going to find it a fascinating topic.
They really want to learn as much as they can.
I can't tell you in your audience if that's going to be 50%, 5% or 0.5%.
But my point is you might as well reach them.
And that's where giving them more content, the better, the more the merrier.
For that group, you'll create more permanent bonds with them.
You will help them or you will further cement your reputation, your brand with them as the expert on
that subject.
So don't be shy about giving people lengthy white papers, lengthy PDFs.
Again, they don't want to read it.
They don't have to.
If you give somebody 100 pages and they want to read a five page document, give them the whole thing,
they can read the first five pages.
Ideally, you have a nice executive summary in two pages.
So if they quit after two pages, they can still get what's really important to you the more ways you
communicate.
The better.
Now, I do think when someone's watching you speak, whether it's in person or online, that's a very,
very powerful way.
But it's even more powerful when you combine it with them having read information, books, PDFs, white
pages, press releases in advance.
So please use that tool.
If you have a video clip, you could send that to them in advance just because you have a set time,
1 p.m. Eastern on a Wednesday to address.
People don't think for a moment that that means you can't communicate in every other format.
So that's what I want you to do now, come up with some kind of a document.
It could be a simple one page fact sheet.
Come up with some one page document that you're willing to email to your audience that really covers
the most important aspects of your online presentation.

--- Here is How to Truly Engage Your Audience ---

Probably the most important thing about presenting online, and this is where it's different from face
to face presentations, is you've got to really work almost every second of your of your presentation
interaction.
You need to be asking people questions, giving them an excuse and motivating them to do something back.
They can post a comment on a chat room.
You're going to be asking for questions constantly.
You may want to put forth a question in a polling format.
If you have the sort of software where you can see who is online, reference them, you can say, and
Jamie, you had a similar experience with this with your company in Kansas City.
Can you share with us briefly how that happened?
Now, if they have the chance to come on with their audio, great.
If you're not using a system that allows that level of interactivity, maybe you simply reference Jamie
in Kansas City because you spoke to her earlier that day or a week earlier or a year earlier.
When somebody hears their name, it's human nature for them.
Oh, I better pay attention.
So reference the people in the room, give them homework assignments, toss out questions again, you're
constantly got to worry about people starting to listen to you.
But I got a text from a friend.
What?
He can't come tonight.
Oh, my.
And you've lost them.
It is so much easier to lose people in online presentations.
And that's why I've got to stress again and again and again interactivity.
The more questions you ask people, the more polls, the more you reference actual individuals who you
know are in the audience, the better.
It's virtually impossible to be too interactive.
Now, of course, you have to deliver core content.
You have to put forth good, useful ideas.
You've got to demonstrate your expertise.
But what you can't do is do a big data dump and not give people a chance to ask questions.
By the way, every so often just stop and say, Am I making sense so far?
Are you with me in a normal presentation?
You can do that by looking at the eyes of the people in your audience, because if they're kind of like
that will send you a signal to go back and give another example, another case study on the point you
just hit.
But when it comes to online presentations, we lose all of these verbal cues and that's why it's critically
important.
Toss out questions, toss out polls, reference people again and again and again throughout.

--- Technology for Interaction - Presentation Skills ---

There's a lot of different technology that will help your audience interact with you when you're giving
an online presentation.
Skype is different from Google Chat.
That's different from the YouTube chat aspect.
That's different from go to meeting.
My advice to you, whatever system you're using, you've really got to get familiar with it and you
need to practice before the actual event because sometimes there's a little chat box here.
If you don't know it's there, you're going to miss it.
You're going to think, Wow, no one interacted at all.
I'm unpopular.
And maybe there were 50 messages and you didn't see them.
It's very, very hard to learn a new technology when you're giving a speech.
Let me tell you right now, I don't care how often you do it.
There's a little bit of adrenaline flowing.
And when you know that 50 or 100, maybe a thousand people are watching you or listening to you, that's
the absolute worst time to learn a new technology.
So don't try.
You simply want to go with the flow and be in the moment presenting when you're doing that.
So that's why it's crucial that you learn the technology platform you're in exactly how the interaction
goes.
Now, worst case scenario, give people your email address.
There's nothing I've done that plenty of times, especially if a chat box was supposed to work and it
didn't work.
Give people your email address because you can just quickly pull up your Gmail, whatever service you're
using, and read an email question from someone or read an email comment from someone.
There's no perfect way.
It's just you need to know exactly the technology someone can use.
Now, some more advanced systems make it relatively easy for someone to just speak.
That's the best of all possible worlds.
But you've got to make sure if that happens, the people not speaking have their mute button on.
Otherwise you're going to get all sorts of feedback, dog noises around there.
There's going to be too much clutter and people won't be able to hear it.
So I certainly do recommend allowing other people to have their voices on, but you've got to really
monitor that so that the feedback doesn't overwhelm it.
Bottom line, learn the technology of the platform you're using for interactivity and then make it easy
for people to do it.
By the way, this applies even to when it's not live.
If you are shooting a video and you're putting it on YouTube, make sure you enable it so that people
can leave comments.
I mean, it's basic stuff, but too often people are worried about, Oh, what if someone says something
critical or I don't like it, grow up.
Criticism is a part of life.
Believe me.
I get criticism all the time, especially on YouTube.
A lot of it's nasty, personal, vicious, beady eyed, bald, ugly, stupid guy.
Look, if you have to put it so that the comments had to be approved first, but make it easy for people
to communicate back with you, you've got to master that technology of interactivity and you've got
to make it so that the people you're speaking to know you want comments on your YouTube videos, tell
people, please comment here and let's start a discussion.
That's what you want.
The best presentations in the world are more group discussions than they are one way communication.

--- The Ethical Way of Cheating ---

I'm hoping I've convinced you for your online presentations to actually present where the video camera
is on you.
I think it's so much more powerful.
It shows so much more confidence on your part.
It will build your own personal brand, but it is a little different now.
When you're presenting in front of a large audience.
You may be used to having a lectern.
You may be used to walking around.
That can make you more comfortable and you might be clicking using the slides as your teleprompter.
It's a little bit different for online, however, some things remain the same.
So, for example, here are my notes for my presentation to you today on this call.
I just have a single sheet of paper and some text.
There's absolutely nothing wrong.
Nothing whatsoever wrong with talking to people.
Look in the camera, but then occasionally glance down at your notes.
Now, that's far different from head buried in reading like this.
Like a robot, because that will put everybody to sleep.
No, no, you need notes.
You need a cheat sheet for yourself.
I would highly recommend you keep it to a single sheet of paper, even if you're presenting for an hour.
If you've got more than that, you probably haven't done enough editing.
So don't try to memorize for goodness sake, don't try to read to people when you're giving an online
presentation.
And that's one of the biggest flaws, frankly, of no video camera.
People think, Wow, nobody can see me.
I can just sit here and read the script and nobody will know I'm reading a script.
Well, yeah, people know.
They can tell with the tone of your voice.
Unless you're a full time professional newscaster, it's virtually impossible to read text.
Without sounding like you're reading text and that puts people to sleep.
You need to sound like you're just talking to people.
This is a presentation we've all seen presenters in real life.
College professors, business executives, where their head is down and they're just reading and it's
boring.
And what does everyone do?
They sort of half listen and they're checking their email.
You do not want to give people a chance to zone out because that's one thing different about online
presentations.
It's much, much easier for your audience to zone out because they're already at their computer.
Their Facebook page is one click away.
The sports scores are one click away.
Their stock price is always one click away.
So you do not have the luxury of droning on being boring, sounding like you are reading.
You do not have that luxury.
So that's why you've got to seem like you care about this and you've got to be looking into the camera.
I'll give you more tips shortly on how to look your best on camera, but you've got to be looking at
the camera and speaking like you're talking to a real human being.
But I'm not expecting you to memorize everything.
So please get your cheat sheet ready.
That's your homework right now.
Put together a one page cheat sheet for your five minute online presentation now.

--- Video Versus Slides ---

The first decision you have to make when you're going to present online is are you going to do it sort
of the easy coward's way of just having your voice and a bunch of pictures, or are you going to do
it the honest way and a more powerful way, which is to show yourself speaking.
Now I'm talking about any online presentation, whether it's a recorded YouTube video, whether you
are doing a webinar through some sort of webinar service, Skype, talking to people, a Google chat,
there's always the chance to sort of hide behind graphics.
I mean, this is just a little video loop behind me, but I'm not trying to use that as the only thing
for you to look at because I want you to see me so you can get a sense of what do I think is important?
It's just easier for people to follow your concepts, your message, if they can see you at least part
of the time.
So that's the first decision you've got to make, because if you make the decision to just sort of speak
and read from a script, it's going to be really hard not to bore people to death.
Now I'm going to give you tips that will apply to a lot of different situations, including those where
people can only hear you.
But I would urge you right now make the decision to use video for yourself.
And if you're not using video, ask yourself, what are your reasons?
If your reasons are, Oh, I don't like to be on video or I'm not a good TV person, those are bad reasons.
If you have a message and you can communicate it with some conviction, some passion, you can be fine
on video because anyone who can speak well in person, people can see that.
Why not let them see you in a video format too online.
So if we're going to do video, let me give you a few tips.
The way people mess up the most is just with a few basic technical flaws.
They start with any time they're doing video, whether it's a webcam, whether it's Skype, whether
it's Google Chat, and here are the problems.
They start off with a camera too low and it's sort of looking up their nose.
No one kind of looks good like that.
And it's very easy if you're using a laptop or even a desktop and the camera is six, eight, 12in below,
you're going to look awful.
Here's a simple solution.
Get a stack of books, get some old phone books.
If you still have those, get some other books and simply raise your laptop.
Raise your desktop to the point where your camera is at eye level.
Now, I'm not in a super fancy, expensive studio now, but my camera is at my eye level, so it looks
more like a TV show.
It looks more professional than the typical sort of Skype video.
So that's the first step.
Now, the next area where people really go wrong is they have a window behind them.
So there's more light behind them than there is in front of them.
So what that does is that darkens out your face.
People can't see your face.
You look like a shadowy criminal figure.
The solution is relatively easy.
Close your blinds or aim the camera to a wall where there's no window behind it.
And then what you need is some light in front of you.
Now, I do have professional lights on here, but there have been times when I've simply used lamps,
taken the lampshade off, and as long as there's more light in front of you focused on your face than
behind you, it's going to be easy for the camera to pick you up and you'll look your best.
The third big area for trouble for most people is the audio.
If you're using the microphone built into your computer eater, it's going to sound teeny, teeny echoey.
It's just not going to be great.
So what I would recommend is by you see it right here, this is a live microphone short for a lavalier
microphone.
You can buy one at RadioShack for 20 bucks.
You can get one on Amazon for probably about nine bucks.
It's not expensive, but this way, the microphone is only this far away from your mouth.
If you're speaking and sitting at your desk, then it's going to be more like two, three, four feet
away from the microphone.
And that's what creates that echoey sound.
When you have good audio quality, it makes it so much easier for people to listen to you when the lighting
is right and people aren't looking up your nose, everything is less distracting.
You can come across as professional, competent, authoritative.
It's just easier to listen to.
So.
I would urge you to take a few minutes.
Come up with these things.
I realize you can't buy a microphone like that, but you could place an order right now and it could
be there in two days if you're using Amazon Prime.
But I'm not pushing Amazon.
Use any service you want.
Get a mic anywhere.
But you can very quickly elevate your computer and make sure you don't have a blind behind you.
Put light in front of you.
Do those steps and you will be so much happier with how you look and how you sound for when you are
presenting online.
So go ahead and try to change your own configuration right now, either in your office, your home,
your laptop, on the road, wherever you are.
Try to get a configuration so that when you record yourself on video, you are comfortable with how
it looks.

--- This is How Long Your Presentation Should Be ---

How long should your presentation be that you're giving online?
Now the thing you hear again and again and again from people is, Oh, everything's got to be short.
It's got to be short.
No one has any attention span.
That's not exactly true.
You can do an online presentation for 60s, but if it's boring and uninteresting and you're putting
forth stuff that isn't useful to people, everyone will hit delete after five seconds.
On the other hand, if you've got really good interesting content, you can be speaking for 90 minutes
and people are going to be demanding more.
So the number one thing I think that should drive your presentation is what is it that you've got to
communicate?
How important is it to you and to your audience?
Certainly, if you're speaking to 50 colleagues in your company who report to you and they are in 30
different locations around the world and you've got something that's really, really important, I wouldn't
put an artificial, arbitrary 5 or 10 minute time limit on the presentation you're delivering through
Skype or YouTube or any other format.
Focus on the content that really needs to be delivered.
Certainly give people time to interact.
Now, if you are working, for example, with a trade association and they have 90 minute webinars three
times a week and that's the format and that's what people have paid for, that's what they're used to.
Well then you need to be prepared to go 90 minutes, but even then realise it may only be 50 minutes
of your talk time and the rest.
Q And A So you don't want to pack it so full that you're not giving people time to talk Now when you're
doing YouTube videos, What I have found works best is to focus on just one idea, one concept, but
then talk for as long as you have interesting content.
It might be 10s, it might be three hours.
I mean, if it's three hours, you could probably break it up.
But my point is don't arbitrarily make it shorter.
Some of the videos I have on my YouTube channel that have the longest retention and the most views are
videos where I spoke for half an hour.
However, I can tell you the average length of someone watching a recorded video on YouTube for me is
one minute, 31 seconds.
Yours may be different, but the main principle here I want to stress is you're not a TV show.
You're not trying to do things with a 62nd stock stopwatch.
Focus on the ideas.
Focus on what you have to really help your audience.
And the the length of the presentation will often take care of itself.

--- Final Thoughts on Skype and Online Presentations ---

We are in the home stretch.
You are ready to give your online presentation if this is a big if you did the exercise I asked for
in the last lecture.
If you have not practiced your presentation online or recorded on video and watched it, you aren't
ready.
If all you're doing is watching these videos of me, frankly, you're wasting your time.
You should be looking at some comedy characters or something.
Entertainment on YouTube.
It'll be a better use of time than simply watching me.
You've got to do the exercise.
So I beg you, if you haven't done it yet, go back and video, record your presentation and get to
the point where you're where you are happy with.
It doesn't have to be perfect.
Like the last sentence I stumbled over a word.
That's okay.
People do that in real conversation.
It doesn't really matter.
Get to the point where you're happy with it and you're coming across comfortable, confident, relaxed.
Two final points I want to leave you with.
Number one, like anything else, the more you do it, the more comfortable you get.
Generally, the better you get.
So when you have opportunities to speak out, to present online, take them.
And you know what?
All of you have opportunities every day because you can make a YouTube video commenting on your area
of expertise, especially if there's anything in the news related to that.
So speak out present online as often as possible.
You'll get better and better and you'll get more comfortable with it.
The second thing is use every single online presentation you give as an opportunity to get better for
the next one.
What that means is you need a video recording of your online presentations and watch it after the fact,
preferably in the first 24 hours.
Because how you think it went and how it actually went may be very different.
You may think you were awful and then you watch it and you think, Wow, that was great.
There's great interaction.
This is fine.
On the other hand, you may think this is great.
I'm really rocking and you watch it and you realize this is boring.
I wouldn't want to watch me.
That's useful information too.
Now, if you've ever been to a comedy club, you'll see comedians recording.
They put a little recording device off on a cell phone.
They're recording every stand up comedy bit they do because they want to go back and listen.
What got laughs, what didn't.
You're not after laughs, but you are trying to figure out what worked and what didn't work.
So if you do that record every online presentation you give and then watch it and listen to it, you
can get a little bit better for the next one.
Keep doing that.
Over time, you'll just get better and better and better.
Good luck.
I'll see you online.

--- Learn the Secret to Speaking to Large Audiences ---

I've got good news and I've got bad news.
The good news is it's actually pretty easy to speak in front of large crowds.
A thousand.
5000.
100,000.
All you have to do is the same thing you do when you're talking to one friend or colleague and you're
relaxed and animated and interesting and being conversational and telling stories and examples.
That's the good news.
The bad news is me simply telling you that doesn't make it any easier because we as human beings are
hard wired to be nervous about speaking in front of large crowds.
What happens is we tense up.
Our heart starts racing.
We get scared, our brain stops working, our memory stops working, and our body's telling us, run
our hands get sweaty.
Well, why is that?
It is important.
Before we really go deep into this and get great at it to understand a little bit of the background
evolutionary biologists believe we as human beings are hardwired to fear public speaking because public
speaking is essentially being separated from the crowd, separated from the herd.
In prehistoric times, if we are in the jungle and we're a part of the herd, there's safety in numbers.
If there's 2000 other water buffalo with us or any sort of animal and a lion or a tiger bear comes,
our odds are pretty good one will get it of the herd.
But the other 1999 we'll be safe.
So there's safety in numbers.
The old cliche is true.
If we're completely separated from the herd or if we're just all alone in the open field and animals
and other other predators of ours can see us from every direction.
We're vulnerable.
We could be eaten, attacked.
That's not good.
So that's why many scientists believe that we as human beings are so nervous about speaking, especially
in front of large crowds.
That's why our bodies react differently.
That's why our hands get wet.
Moisture is coming out.
Moisture is coming out of our feet, too, because our body is telling us, don't think run.
Now, you may have noticed if you're ever trying to turn the page of a book, if you go like that,
there's more friction.
It's easier to turn that page the same way if you all of a sudden have to run through a jungle for your
life.
Having moisture coming out of your hands at the palm of your feet gives you more traction.
You can grab vines, swing away, and it's better for protection.
Your body is telling you run.
You've got that adrenaline rush, more energy.
But that's also when your body isn't working well from the neck up.
You don't have the ability to think clearly, necessarily or to recall information because your body
is telling you to spend all of your energy running.
And it makes perfect sense.
S If you're in the jungle about to be attacked, unfortunately, if you're about to give a speech in
front of a major trade show conference of 2000 people, that particular response isn't very helpful.
All it does is get in your way.

--- Your Fears Will Melt Away, After This ---

When it comes to speaking in front of large audiences.
There's all sorts of chicken and egg issues.
If you just tell yourself it's not a problem, you can be conversational and you'll be relaxed.
But the trick is how do you actually tell yourself, this is easy?
Because what's happening is your eyes are seeing all these people and at some level you have an emotional
response.
You have a physical response at an emotional level, which is, Oh my God, look at all these people
looking at me.
And that's what tightens us up.
That's what makes us scared.
That's what makes our brain shut down.
Because your body is telling you run.
And unfortunately, it's that nervous response that then creates all sorts of other speaking pathologies
with respect to this large audience.
Now, we've all seen people who are really good dynamic talking one on one to a couple of people, maybe
sitting around a boardroom.
They're commanding, they're funny, they're interesting, they're engaging and put them in front of
a large audience.
And my fellow citizens of the world, I'm very happy to be here today.
And oh, my God, it's awful because they're nervous.
They start reading from a script and you may think, Ah, I know a solution to that.
I won't be seen using a paper script.
I'll use a teleprompter.
My fellow Americans, I am happy to be here today at this amazing convention.
We've all seen speakers at political conventions, people who are not full time newscasters trying to
read a teleprompter.
And the result is often disastrous because the teleprompter for those who aren't professionals and who
haven't practiced enough makes people sound awful because all of a sudden your speed is the same.
Your volume is the same, the pausing is the same, the tone is the same, and you sound like a robot.
So when you see people at major trade associations, major conventions and they're using a teleprompter,
it's often disastrous.
They're thinking, Oh, I'm scared, I'm nervous, I'm afraid of what I'll say and what not to say.
I know I'll play it safe and I'll read a teleprompter.
And some convention organizer trying to be helpful has made this teleprompter available to them.
And it just makes people worse because it turns them into robots.
It solves one problem of I don't remember what to say because I'm scared, but it doesn't solve the
bigger problem, which is I look and sound scared to everyone in the audience and I look and sound boring.
That's a huge, huge problem.
So we have to get back to what we're really trying to do, which is come across natural, relaxed,
comfortable, confident and still communicate, actually get people to focus on a message, understand
a message, remember a message so that they can do what we want them to do.
Let's not lose sight of the real goal here.

--- You Will Speak With Perfect Volume, Once You do This ---

My fellow citizens of the world.
Do you know what another big problem is when you're speaking to large crowds?
That problem is yelling.
That's right, folks yelling now.
This day and age, if you're speaking to a crowd of 200, 300, 500, 1000, 5000 at a major convention
hall or an outdoor stadium, chances are you're going to have a microphone.
Which means you don't have to shout, yell and blah, blah, blah in order to be heard.
You can speak in a conversational tone.
You can use the full range of your voice.
Here's the problem with yelling.
Nobody likes to be yelled at.
It's irritating to the ear.
It also is a particular type of monotone.
If you yell at the same speed, the same volume, the whole time, see how consistent it is.
That's annoying.
It's kind of like someone punching in you, punching you in the arm.
After a while, it's really going to hurt even if they're not hitting that hard.
It's too consistent.
The other problem with giving a speech in front of a large crowd, if you're on any kind of video,
people are watching it later.
If it's on YouTube, you're going to look angry, upset.
That's probably not the image you want and it's just too hot.
Now, there was a time a long time ago, before electricity, before speakers and microphones, if you
were campaigning somewhere, you did have to yell.
You would stand on a stump and all the people out in the cornfield couldn't hear you unless you yelled.
So it makes sense to yell if there's no amplification around.
If you have a family member about to run out in front of a car crossing the street and they're 50ft
away, it makes sense to yell, but when you're giving a speech to a large crowd, you want to sound
conversational.
You want to sound like you're just talking to 1 or 2 people and that's why you don't want to yell.
And the hard part is psychologically, you're seeing people a long way away.
So you want to be helpful.
You want to be heard.
So psychologically, if you see someone one, two, three, 400ft away, the inclination is to try to
project.
But if you've got a microphone like this one or anyplace else, you don't have to yell.
So you need to fight the impulse of yelling.
It's one of the biggest detriments to good public speaking in front of a large crowd.

--- Your Eyes Will Never Look Lost ---

Really happy to be here in front of all of you today to tell you about some of the fine art of public
speaking and how you, too, can look comfortable and confident the whole time.
You see what I'm doing there?
The eyes floating like that.
That's unfortunately what happens when people are in front of large crowds.
They may sound comfortable.
Their body language may be comfortable.
They may have something interesting to say.
But if your eyes are kind of just floating the whole time because you just can't imagine this whole
sea of people, it makes you look nervous.
It makes you look uncomfortable.
Here's what I recommend with the eye contact.
Just pick one spot way out to the left and hold that eye contact for a full thought.
Just a sentence or two.
Then go to another part of the crowd.
Completely different.
Hold your eye contact for a couple of sentences five, six seconds, then go to another part.
Now this works.
Even if you're on a stage, a bright light and you can't see the crowd, what you're after is steady
eye contact for a full thought.
Because all the people, the 20 or so people in that area will feel like, wow, he really spoke to
me.
She really spoke to me.
Everyone else seeing you will have the perception that you're supremely confident because your eyes
are not going all over the place.
So whether there's lights on the audience or not, it doesn't matter.
Just randomly pick different spots.
You don't want to be like a water sprinkler going back and forth.
It shouldn't be that consistent.
It should be different places.
But holding the eye contact for a full thought.
A couple of sentences do that and you'll look much more confident in front of a large audience.

--- Pause for Maximum Affect and Impact ---

Here's one thing that is a little different about speaking in front of large audiences.
The difference is you need a little more of a pause between your big thoughts.
It takes a while for your sound to simply travel all the way around a large room, regardless of the
number of speakers.
And there occasionally could be an echo.
You help yourself by having a little more of a pause between your thoughts, a little more of a transition.
It allows the sound to filter out through the room.
It allows people to process it.
Part of it is they can't see your lips and your mouth as well as if it were just a room of 20 people
speaking.
There are fewer visual cues, although there may be a big image magnification.
Still, you'll make it easier for people easier to digest if you pause a little longer between thoughts
between paragraphs and if you just speak a little bit slower than usual, it's just easier for your
words to flow through the room or through the audience.
So keep that in mind with the speed, especially given that you might be nervous.
And when we're nervous, we tend to speak faster than usual.
So slow it down.
More pauses.

--- Your PowerPoint Will Illuminate, Not Bore ---

PowerPoint slides.
Now, you may think I'm reflexively anti PowerPoint.
I'm not.
But when you are speaking in front of a really large audience, you have to.
You absolutely have to follow some very specific rules when it comes to PowerPoint.
For starters, text bullet points, complete waste of time.
If you're in a room with hundreds, even thousands, 10,000 people watching you, they do not want to
have to stare 500ft away to read text.
That is simply not how human beings like to read.
Chances are slim that it's really going to be that visible and easy for people to read.
So my recommendation is if you're going to use PowerPoint and it's fine to do so, use exclusively images,
pictures to dramatize your key point.
If you've got a whole lot of text data points, complicated financial charts, email it to people in
advance, Give them the website at the end where they can download a PDF or a white page.
Do not when you're in front of a large crowd, put up complex graphs that have, you know, 8 or 9 different
colors of color coded charts and lines.
People can't differentiate that from a distance, so don't even try.
And people certainly don't want to read a bunch of bullet points from 100, 200, 300ft away.
Use images in your PowerPoint slides that you project.
You want to give people the traditional PowerPoint as an email, a handout later.
Fine.
Be my guest, but don't project it.
It's only going to make you look weak and ineffective.

--- Possible Outcomes ---

In many ways, speaking to a really large audience is the same as speaking to any size audience, even
a small audience.
There's always the chance you make a horrible impression.
I hope not, but there's always that chance.
There's a chance you make no impression, which is what happens to most people Most of the time.
There's a chance you make a great impression and there's a chance you make a great impression and you
actually communicate ideas that people understand and remember.
That's what I believe your goal should be.
That's what you should be focusing on.
Your goal can't be, Oh, I just want to get through this.
That's a defensive negative mentality.
That's like the beginning of your year going to your financial adviser saying, All I care about is
don't lose money.
Well, in that case, stick it in your mattress and hope there's no inflation that'll solve that problem.
That's a horribly negative, negative goal.
That's very low ambitions.
I want you to have high ambitions for this speech because it's a great way of distinguishing you from
competitors, from peers, from others, because most people are too afraid to speak in front of large
crowds.
They'll turn down the opportunity.
Now you've got a chance to shine.
So please, please keep that in mind.
Realize that it's just not that hard to speak in front of a large audience.
But you've got to be focused.

--- You Will Achieve Your Speaking Goals ---

What is the goal of your presentation and your speech?
By the way, throughout this whole course, I'm going to use the term speech presentation, talk PowerPoint
almost interchangeably.
I really mean any time you're speaking to two or more people and sometimes even one, and it's not just
idle chit chat, it's not just at The WaterCooler talking about last night's game, you're trying to
communicate something very specific.
So the first thing you've got to do, if you want to be an effective speaker, you've got to have a
specific goal.
It's like that in any other aspect of business or life.
You're not going to succeed unless you have something specific in mind.
It can't be just getting through it alive or not looking like a fool.
That's too low of an ambition.
So you need to have a specific goal in mind.
It could be getting that sale, getting that contract, getting hired, getting budget approval.
What is it you want people to actually do coming up to you afterwards asking for your card for more
information about your service or your product or your business, getting funding for your startup,
what is your goal?
You need to have a very, very clear sense of exactly what your goal is.
Then and only then can you figure out what to say.
Okay, so let me just cut right to the chase.
The number one problem every single one of my clients has everywhere in the world.
And I work with people from six continents and every kind of country, every kind of language.
The number one mistake everyone makes is they dump way too much data in their speech.
Their presentation is sort of, here's everything I know on this topic.
Here's everything we've done for the last quarter.
Here's every sales figure for every week for the last two years.
Here's a PowerPoint with 29 bullet points per slide and it's 72 slides.
So if you want to just hop right up to the advanced level now and not spend years and years and years
of trial by error, all you have to do is this one thing, and that is eliminate the massive, massive,
massive amounts of data most people try to convey in their speech.
Here's what I recommend.
Brainstorm on every single message point you would like to convey to this audience.
Then put it in priority and narrow it down to the top five.
Now, I'm a big believer that any time you're giving a speech, you should really focus on just five
key ideas.
Five messages.
Why is that?
It's because I actually test audiences all over the world.
Here's what I've found.
Every time I go to an organization to do a public speaking training or give a speech in front of a large
crowd, I always ask people say, Can you think of the best speaker you've seen in the last year, last,
last five years Now?
Can you tell me every message point you remember from this fantastic speaker?
Not that they were funny or they walked around the stage a lot, but I want to know, how many messages
do you actually remember from this fantastic speaker?
Now, sometimes I ask this question.
People say, Well, TJ, I don't remember anything, but he was funny.
Sometimes people remember one message, occasionally two, sometimes three.
Every once in a while someone will remember four messages, and once every six months someone will remember
five messages from the best speaker they've seen that year, or perhaps their lifetime.
Now, all the many years I've asked that question to people, I've never actually had anyone remember
more than five points, five main messages from a speech.
So that's why I urge you to focus on just five points.
Now, interestingly, the very same people I'm training in person who say they can only remember two
or 3 or 4 or at most five points, two minutes later, they're getting up to give their speech.
And sure enough, what do they have?
Seven points on the first PowerPoint, 18 points on the second, nine points on the third.
And I always say, but wait a minute, you just said the best speaker you've seen in your life.
You remember three or 4 or 5 points and now you're trying to convey 72 points in this presentation.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
But, you know, but TJ, my audience is different.
Our corporate culture is different.
No, it's not.
You just proved it.
You're a part of your corporate culture.
And you don't remember more than three, 4 or 5 points.
So if you just follow this one tip, you're instantly going to get to a very advanced status as a public
speaker, as a presenter, as a communicator.
And emotionally, it's hard to do because people feel like, gosh, if I don't tell people every single
thing we do, Smithers here might say, I left something out.
Janet might complain that I was a superficial Harold over here will complain that his pet project wasn't
mentioned.
You know what?
I better play it safe and just dump all the data and tell everything and put every point in there.
And then everybody will think I'm smart.
Now you know what everyone thinks when you do that?
TJ's really boring.
Now let me just check my email.
That's the only thing people are thinking.
So when you dump data, that's the real sign of a very, very insecure speaker.
Because what you're really saying is, I'm afraid people aren't going to like me and think I'm smart,
so I'm going to have to tell everybody everything I know and then they'll respect me.
That is complete, utter nonsense.
Too many people think of a speech as an opportunity to get a giant wheelbarrow and sort of go around
their office for two months, gathering facts, gathering data points, gathering old PowerPoint slides
from other people.
And then it's the day of the speech and they kind of wheel that wheelbarrow into the conference room
and they just start dumping and wow, look at the time.
There's not much time.
I'd better speak faster because I got so much data to dump and it simply wears out the audience.
It numbs them.
You're not impressing anybody.
You're not making them feel you're smarter.
All you're doing is boring them.
Let's go back to our initial criteria of what we're trying to accomplish.
We want to look comfortable, confident, have people understand us, have people remember our message
so they can take the actions they want.
Well, if you've bored people to death in the first few minutes, they're no longer understanding anything
you say.
They're certainly not remembering it because they're not even paying attention.
So how in the world are they going to do what you want them to do if they checked out long ago?
And you know what, You're not even going to accomplish your first goal of looking confident, comfortable,
relaxed, because chances are you're kind of, you know, wedded to a script or you're looking at a
bunch of slides, so you're really not going to accomplish a single goal.
So that's the great irony.
People say, Well, teacher, I need this PowerPoint with all these bullet points.
By the way, I'm not anti PowerPoint, I'm anti a PowerPoint with lots and lots and lots of bullet points.
I'm not anti using notes, I am anti having sheets and sheets of paper filled with lots and lots of
bullet points.
People say, I need this script as a crutch for me and I try to politely tell them a crutch keeps you
from falling down and hurting yourself if you're injured, what you're doing isn't keeping you from
falling down.
It's actually causing you to fail.
So don't tell me it's a crutch.
It's really a weight that's bringing down your presentation.
So that's my challenge to you.
And this is your first homework assignment.
You've got to come up with a topic for a speech.
The first thing I want you to do is write in one sentence What is it you want your audience to do?
Now?
It's a little bit different if you're a student and you're giving just a book report on a classic,
it may be what you want to do is motivate your other students to think this book is so fascinating that
they want to go out and read it.
It doesn't have to be about getting more money or getting a direct sale, but you should think of motivating
your audience to do something.
So in one sentence, I want to know what your goal is for this audience.
I don't mean your goal is I want them to think I'm smart.
Your goal should be something you want your audience to actually do.
Then I want you to write down every message point that you could possibly think of and then put it in
priority and narrow it down to just five.
That is your homework assignment.
Come up with just five message points.
A message point is not a big theme with 72 sub points.
A message point is just one idea.
It should be something with one subject, one verb, one object.
It's not a long run on sentence with, however.
Therefore, buts.
It's just one idea.
Don't be greedy.
Focus on one idea at a time and you should have simply five.
I want you to type those up on your computer.
Write it on a piece of paper.
But it's critically important you have this degree of clarity, because without that, you're basically
absolutely destroying your ability to communicate successfully.
You need a roadmap for your presentation.
You can't drive from Los Angeles to New York without GPS and without a roadmap typically, and just
follow streets wherever they go.
You'll end up all sorts of nooks and crannies and you'll just never get anywhere.
You need a roadmap for your presentation.
It needs simplicity.
It's going to be easier for you when you're giving the presentation.
You know who else is going to be easier for your audience.
They need something easy for them to to follow.
So that's your first homework assignment?
Go ahead.
Do it right now.
Five ideas.
And you need to eliminate the stuff that is only important to you but isn't important to your audience.
You need to eliminate the fluff.
You need to eliminate the nice to no's and keep the half to no.
What is it that you absolutely positively have to have your audience understanding and remembering?
So do that right now.

--- Your Stories Will Captivate ---

So you've narrowed your key messages down to just five.
That's great.
But we can't just tell people.
Here are my five messages.
Got to go after 30s.
It doesn't work like that.
You've got to do everything you can in the time you have with your speech or your presentation to make
those messages not only understood, but remembered.
Now, let me tell you a little secret here.
I say it's a secret.
Every book on public speaking says this, and yet nobody ever does it.
So somehow it's a basic concept that doesn't sink through.
You need to have a story for every one of your message points.
The biggest difference between great speakers and awful ones and average ones is that great speakers
have a story to flesh out every single message point they have.
It's not a luxury.
It's not just to open the speech, it's not the clothes.
It's not to be funny.
It's to illustrate the point so the audience can remember it.
Now, here's the other big fact of life.
Every and I mean every single client I have who's awful, who's boring, who just does a data dump or
who's just average, they never use stories.
They just go in a straight forward way.
Here's a fact.
Here's a bullet point.
Here's a number.
It's it's straightforward factual stuff.
And it's awful.
Nobody remembers it.
And it's not interesting.
Now, there's a lot of confusion about stories people tell me all the time, well, I love stories,
but I'm not a natural storyteller or I'm in finance and I'm just giving the numbers or I'm giving a
purely technical speech.
Well, let me disabuse you of those notions right now.
There is no such thing as a financial speech or a technical speech or a PowerPoint speech.
Those are all just silly concepts we have in our head when we're giving speeches.
There's only two types of speeches in the entire world.
Do you know what they are?
That's right.
It's either good or it's bad From the standpoint of the audience.
When you are in the audience, you're not thinking, Wow, I sure am glad this person's giving me a
formal presentation or this sure is a good financial present.
No, that's not what you're thinking of.
The only thing you're thinking of when you're in the audience is this is good.
It's interesting.
It's useful.
I'm going to pay attention or this guy is awful.
It's boring.
It's tedious.
Look at the PowerPoint later.
Meanwhile, let me check up on email from the office.
That's the only thing going on in the minds of your audience.
So great speakers adapt to the mindset of their audience and that's what you've got to do.
So you've got to figure out what are the ideas you're trying to communicate and now how can you use
every tool to make it come alive?
And the number one tool you have at your disposal is a story.
Now, a story doesn't have to be funny.
It doesn't have to be overly emotional.
The only thing a story is, is you recounting a real conversation you had with a real person about a
real problem in a real place.
What was said, what that person said to you, what you said back, how it was resolved and how you
felt about it.
That's it.
That's all there is to it.
All of us tell stories all the time.
You're stopping off on the way home and you fill up with gas and someone cuts you off and curses at
you.
You don't then go home and tell your spouse.
At 522, I left the office At 532, I pulled into a gas station.
At 533.
There was a minor altercation and unpleasantries were exchanged.
At 544, I left.
I mean, that's kind of how most people give speeches.
Boring, straightforward, fact.
Fact.
You're going to say to your spouse, you can't believe what happened to me today.
I was pulling in to the Exxon and this guy comes in honking, honking.
I'm looking around.
He's like, Get out of my way, buddy.
And he proceeded to take the gas pump and put it in as if he owned the place.
I mean, that's how human beings talk.
It might not drive a car, but I think you get my point.
All human beings tell stories all day long.
Now, what's different about a speech is people tell themselves, Oh, I'm now giving a formal presentation,
Let me push away all the stories and just stick to the facts and be concise.
Let me tell you right now, your goal when giving a speech is never and I mean never to be concise.
Your goal is to communicate.
You can be concise.
Stand up.
Sit down.
After 30s.
Nobody remembered anything you said.
You accomplished absolutely nothing.
But maybe you speak for 20 minutes, maybe three hours.
If you're giving people good value, if you're really helping them, if you're doing something to make
their lives better, their jobs better, their bottom line better.
They'll listen to you for a long time.
Now, I'm not saying just go on and on for three hours, but your focus should be on making your ideas
remembered and making sure you have useful ideas, not simply being concise.
That is a false goal that many, many speakers have.
Stories sometimes take a long time.
Maybe you tell a story in 30s.
It's not overly complicated, but if you have a point that you want people to remember, you're better
off giving a story to make it meaningful.
One of the points I'm going to stress in our next lesson is you really got to practice on video If you
want to see for yourself where you are, what your strengths are, what your weaknesses are, and how
to improve.
Now, I've been using video ever since I started 30 years ago, and there was a time when it was difficult.
You had to bring in some production crew and cameras were this big.
These days, everyone's surrounded by video cameras.
You've got one in your cell phone, likely iPads.
Webcams are everywhere.
It's really, really cheap.
Now, I remember a time more than a decade ago, I was doing my very first training over in Eastern
Europe, and I was in a former dictator's palace and it was quite elaborate.
And I wasn't training a dictator.
I was training a popularly elected prime minister of a small Eastern European country.
But I was a little nervous.
It was my first time in that part of the world.
Prime minister has all of his guards, his body guards with machine guns around.
We're ready to practice the Prime Minister's speech.
And he said to me, TJ, do you mind if this first time we practice in my native language, he was fluent
in English.
He said, Do you mind if we practice in my native language?
Sure, no problem, Mr. Prime Minister.
So he stood up, gave his speech, and he proceeded to do this.
Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
You know, he basically read his speech.
He asked me what I thought.
I said, Well, let's watch the video together.
So we watch the video.
He then said, TJ, what did you think?
I said, I'll tell you what I think, but first I want you to tell me exactly what you thought he said.
I'll tell you I'll tell you what, I want to hear your opinion first.
And I thought, wow, this guy was really boring.
It was awful.
And what do I do?
I'm surrounded by armed guards.
I'm in a whole another place of the world.
I don't know what the situation is.
Some of them look quite menacing.
Do I tell them the truth?
I thought, you know what?
He's paying me a bunch of money to give him the truth.
I'll tell him the truth.
So I said, Mr. Prime Minister, with all due respect, I don't know what you said, but you bored the
hell out of me.
He looked shocked.
He looked at me.
He looked at all of his armed guards.
He looked back at the TV, and then he said, TJ, you're right.
It was boring as hell.
It's awful.
Here's what we got to do.
And he took this speech.
He threw it away.
And we did what I had to do with most of my clients.
We got a clean sheet of paper, we got a pen, and we started from scratch.
And we tried to boil it down to just five messages.
And we did the speech again and we kept videotaping it until he could look at it and say, TJ, now
this is a guy I would want to listen to.
Okay, so what did I do there?
All I did was tell a story.
Was it funny?
No.
Was it overly dramatic?
Not really.
But it was real.
I mean, that actually happened to me.
And all I'm trying to do is drive home the points that it is important to videotape your practice because
you'll see things that you weren't aware of.
You'll be more aware of your strengths and weaknesses.
And it's really the only way to get a sense of how you're doing.
So it's a simple story.
It only took a couple of minutes, but it had a character.
It had the Prime Minister had a setting.
I'm in a dictator's palace, isolated.
Did in Eastern Europe.
It had a problem.
This guy was giving a really boring solution.
It did have a solution.
He had to look at it and figure out what he liked, didn't like.
And we redid it.
It had a little bit of motion.
It was a little bit nervous about, A, telling him that B being informed circumstances.
So it had the elements.
Is that the greatest story ever told?
No.
Is it going to win Pulitzer Prizes?
No.
But it does help people remember that message a little more effectively.
And that's got to be your big problem that you've got to focus on.
How do you get people to remember your ideas?
As I mentioned earlier, the big problem most speakers have is not that they break out and flop sweat.
It's not that they freeze.
It's not even that their PowerPoint stops or breaks that are bold breaks.
But that does happen.
The number one problem most speakers have is they stand up, they give their presentation, their ties
straight, their dress is straight, their hair is the way they want it with whatever they have and
everything goes according to plan.
But then if you walked around the audience or the conference table afterwards with a $100 bill and put
it in front of people and said, you can keep that money, all you have to do is tell me two ideas that
Speaker talked about.
Guess what?
You would never have to give away any money.
That's the real tragedy of most speakers.
Stories are the solution.
When I ask audiences all over the world, what do they remember the most about great speakers?
They remember two things the passion and the stories.
And they're linked because when people are telling stories, that's when their passion comes out.
So a lot of people have the mistaken notion that, well, I'll fit a story in if there's time, and
yet there's never time because they have so many data points.
A story is not a luxury.
It is a fundamental building block of what it takes to communicate effectively.
Now, just as I mentioning everything in this video, this whole series of videos, there is a section
in the books that I give you for the homework at the very end of the whole course that will tell you
exactly every one of these elements in the story.
It will give you even more examples.
So anything I'm talking about here, there is a chapter in both of the books that I'm giving you, so
don't worry about writing everything down now.
But the fundamental thing is you've got to have a story.
Examples are also good, case studies are good.
All of these things will help your audience remember.
That's what's going to make your speech successful or not.
It's not about having perfect eye contact and timber voice or lowering your voice.
All these things people think matter if you have interesting, important, relevant messages and great
stories that make it come alive, you'll be seen as a great speaker.
Even if you're tie's crooked or you have some ums and ahs and or people will forget all that If you
have good, compelling stories.
Now, people ask me all the time, TJ, Can I make up stories?
Well, you could, but why would you want to?
That's hard work.
The beauty of a story is you can see it.
I mean, I can see that Prime minister there still, even though it's been more than a decade, the
best stories aren't made up.
It's simply you recounting a real conversation you had with a real person.
You can see it that makes it not abstract.
Abstraction is your enemy as a speaker, not because the people you're talking to are stupid and don't
understand abstraction.
Abstraction is a problem because without people seeing it, they don't remember it.
Think of it this way What's easier for you to remember if you've just met someone, their name on a
business card or their face?
For most of us, it's the face that's easier to remember, not the name.
That's because you can actually visualize a face.
You see a face.
Words on a business card.
Those are just abstractions.
So here's your homework.
You need to come up with a story for each one of the five message points you created in your earlier
homework.
And if you tell me, Well, I don't really have a story for that, guess what that means.
It's not an important point.
Now let's say it's purely a financial presentation if profits are.
Up 22% from last quarter.
You could say, well, that's just a number.
There is no story.
There is a story.
What is driving that growth?
What's the one product what's the one thing that happened to the economy?
What's the one element of publicity that drove that?
Tell me about a conversation you had with your number one client or your number one sales person talking
about this new growth engine.
There is a story for anything unless you tell me that the only thing you do all day long is sit back
and read the paper and at 5:00 you get an email from your boss saying, Good job.
Go home.
All of us have stories to tell because we all have phone conversations.
If nothing else, with a client, a customer or a colleague who's got a problem and you've got to deal
with it.
Those are the stories that will make your presentation come alive.
So that's your homework right now.
You don't have to write it out word for word, but you need a few words to trigger this memory and you
think about how you're going to say it.
So now you need to have an outline on a single sheet of paper or a single computer screen.
Your five big bullet points, your five main ideas, and then you need 2 or 3 words that will trigger
in your own memory a story for each one of your points.
That's your homework.
Go ahead and do it right now.

--- It Is Especially Important to Practice On Video Before Big Audience Gigs ---

Okay, folks, now it's time for a really big test.
It's a test for me.
I could flunk.
And it's also a test for you.
You could flunk.
Here's the part that you've not been waiting for that you really don't want to hear.
But I'm going to just tell it to you straight now.
You've got to practice your speech and you've got to record it.
You've got to record it on video.
And I don't like looking at myself.
I don't like my voice too bad.
And I'm very serious about this.
You can watch all my videos.
You can give me five stars and top rating.
All of that is completely meaningless if I don't motivate you to record your speeches and practice on
video again and again and again.
Everything I do with people, sometimes I work eight hours a day for five days with a client.
The most important part of what I do is getting them to practice on video and watch it.
It's the absolute only way to really get dramatic improvement and to get consistent improvement.
You can't do it by looking at a mirror.
If you practice in a mirror, then if you're a normal human being, you're thinking, Oh, is my nose
crooked?
Did more of my hair fall out?
Am I getting.
You're not focused on giving the speech.
You're looking at your face.
That's not the speech.
The speech is you actually talking to people, conveying your ideas, moving.
It is absolutely imperative, critical that you practice on video.
If you don't do that, there's an excellent chance you're never going to improve.
And I'm sorry right now, but you're frankly wasting your time in this course or any other public speaking
course if you do not videotape yourself.
Now, when I was starting in this business 30 years ago, you maybe had an excuse.
Video cameras were relatively rare, relatively expensive.
Nowadays you want a video camera, reach in your pocket, pull out your cell phone.
It captures video, most likely, if not a tablet, an iPad, a webcam, a laptop.
I mean, we are all completely surrounded by videos, video cameras these days.
So you have no excuse.
Here's the thing.
By my estimation, far fewer than 1% of people ever do this.
If you want to automatically leap to the top 1% of public speakers, all you have to do is this one
thing Practice on video now, but you have to do it in a very, very specific way, because if you practice
your speech on video and you never look at it, didn't do any good, complete waste of time.
If you practice your speech on video and then you look at it once and then you're like, ugh, I hate
my voice.
This is awful.
Well, at least I looked at it again.
Complete, utter waste of time.
In fact, that's often worse than wasting time because it likely so reduces your self confidence, makes
you feel so awful.
You hate your voice.
You hated the fact that your eyes are beating like mine, or that you were twitching with a ring on
your finger.
Just watching once doesn't help.
And in fact it hurts.
You have to go about this in an extraordinarily systematic way.
Give your presentation.
Ideally, you have a family member, a friend, a colleague holding the camera.
But even if it's just you in a hotel room or in your bedroom recording yourself speaking, that's fine
too.
You've got to record yourself.
Then you have to watch it.
Then what you need is a clean sheet of paper, put a line down the middle and write down everything
you like.
Write down everything you don't like about any aspect of style or substance.
If you notice, for example, you're doing this every three seconds.
It's going to strike you as weird, odd, a nervous gesture.
Make a note of that.
However, if you think, well, my speaking voice is pretty good, or at least I'm not rushing or I
like the fact that my head is moving.
Give yourself praise.
Everybody does something well in the sense that they're not making blunders other people make.
Maybe you're not saying, ah, um, give yourself credit for that, but systematically go through the
whole presentation, write things you like, write things you don't like, and then look at it.
Then you've got to give the speech again.
This time it's a clean sheet of.
Paper.
Look at it again.
Did you play with your nose?
Fewer times this time?
If you made any progress whatsoever, write it down.
So if you start it off and the negatives were this high and the strengths were this high, you want
to do it again.
So the negatives come down.
The strengths go up.
Do it again.
Negatives come down, strengths come up.
Keep doing it as many times as it takes until you like what you see.
That's the ultimate way of getting better.
Again, people say, Well, I don't want to do that.
TJ Tough.
Let me ask you this.
How often would you dictate a memo to an assistant or just to a voice recorder and tell someone, send
it out to all of our important clients, Send it to my teachers who are going to grade me.
Send it to the media.
Send it to all of our customers.
All employees.
Don't spell check it, don't edit it, don't review it, don't have legal look at it.
Investor.
Just send it out as is.
How often would you do that?
My guess is never You'd be scared out of your mind to do that because of fear that it would be filled
with errors.
You don't just dictate text and send it out.
You look at it, you run it through spell check, you edit it, you refine it, you perhaps get feedback
from other people.
So by the time you've gone through three or 4 or 5 drafts, you can look at it and say, Well, this
is fine, this conveys what I want.
You're not nervous.
You're not thinking it's going to win a Pulitzer Prize for literature.
But you're comfortable that this particular memo, whether it's a press release, a document to a client,
conveys what you want in a clear, easy, understandable way with good grammar and good spelling.
You hit send.
You're not nervous at that point because you have a due diligence process for taking this rough draft,
which you dictated into a final draft of what you're sending.
We understand that instinctively when it comes to text communication.
But when it comes to spoken communication, so many of us say, well, here's the first draft and the
last draft and just throw it out there to our audience.
Well, folks, I got to tell you, that's a horrible way of doing it, because the first draft of most
things, what do they call it, a rough draft.
So if you are speaking in front of your intended audience and it's the first time you're actually giving
this presentation, you're throwing your rough draft out to that audience.
Well, no wonder It's awful.
No wonder it's rough.
We don't expect anything else to be great in the first draft.
Why would we expect the speech to be great?
Now, here's what's really happening.
For most people, especially those in bigger corporations, is we think of the speech as entirely the
PowerPoint presentation or the text.
So we may spend dozens of hours, we may spend 100 hours writing and rewriting and rewriting the text
on the speech or the text and the bullet points on the PowerPoint.
Guess what?
A complete, utter waste of time as far as actually helping you get prepared to give a great presentation.
Now, certainly if you want the whole speech written out, you do have to review it and spell check
it.
If you're giving it to people, if you are using PowerPoint with text and I don't recommend using text
on PowerPoint, but if you are.
Well, certainly you need to get rid of typos and errors.
But for too many people and too many corporations, it becomes a crutch.
I'll get around to rehearsing on video, but we've just got to make these final tweaks on these PowerPoints.
And before you know it, a week has gone by.
It's 1 a.m. The speech is at 8 a.m. and you're still redoing the PowerPoint slides.
So what's happening is you've crowded out on lesser important activities.
You've crowded out what's really important, the time to rehearse.
At some point, you've got to say enough is enough.
With futzing with the PowerPoint or with the script, we now have to rehearse Great speakers realize
this Ronald Reagan, known as the Great Communicator, had a discipline with his speechwriting staff.
Now he would work with his staff for months for a major speech like the State of the Union address.
But he would then force them to give him the final draft a week before the speech was to be delivered.
He would then spend three hours a night practicing out loud reading the speech in the residency in the
White House.
Now, that wasn't to memorize it because he was still going to use a teleprompter.
He was doing that to build a comfort level, a relationship with the words.
But then he would spend an entire day doing videotaped rehearsal with the speech, the day of the speech,
again and again and again, looking at it, figuring out what works, what doesn't work.
How about this pause here about this thoughtful look down there.
So it's not an accident.
It's not something you're simply born with.
It comes through practice and hard work, but it comes through a particular type of practice.
If you didn't do any of the homework earlier and you didn't narrow your message down to five and you
didn't have stories and you have just a really boring data dump, well, you can practice giving your
speech again and again and again.
It's still going to be an awful, boring data dump.
And if you practice without video, you might still be making the same mistakes again and again.
For example, if I had been giving this entire course to you but the entire time.
I'd been doing this.
I don't think you would really paid attention to anything else you would have said, Wow, that guy
is a complete fraud.
He's talking about how to be comfortable as a speaker.
He seems really nervous in his own skin.
Now, if I didn't look at myself on video, how would I know that I'm doing that?
You cannot know how you're coming across unless you watch yourself.
The camera doesn't lie.
Your friends and family can say, Hey, great speech, good job.
You're going to knock em dead.
Camera won't do that.
The camera is going to tell you exactly what you're doing.
Now, this is what scares people.
Sometimes they're afraid of the truth.
They can't handle the truth.
Guess what?
Your audience is going to see the truth.
People often say, Well, teacher, I don't want to look at myself.
I hate looking at myself.
Well, you look at yourself all the time in the mirror, right?
How many of you get up in the morning?
You have a really important meeting to go to.
Your boss is there, The board of directors is there.
And you just get up and you don't look in a mirror.
Once you shave, get dressed, put on makeup and never look at a mirror.
I seriously doubt any of you do that.
If you're like most people, you get up, you look in a mirror and that's how you get out of the shower.
You look in the mirror, you shave or put on makeup, you look in a mirror, you put on clothes, you
look in a mirror.
So by the time you walk out of your house or apartment, when you're walking into your office or into
that conference to give a speech you're no longer worried about, is there jelly stains all over my
mouth?
Is there a coffee stain on my shirt?
You're not worried about that?
You're not wondering about that because you already know how you look.
You've looked in the mirror.
You know how you're coming across.
Now, you might wish you looked better or thinner or something else, but at least you know that you're
visually coming across the way.
You want to come across the best you can come across based on time and resources that you have because
you looked in the mirror numerous times.
It's the exact same thing with speaking.
Although the mirror doesn't help with speaking, the speech is you talking.
The only way to really see what you're getting is by watching video and you have no excuse for doing
it.
So I'm begging you, I'm pleading with you again.
You've just completely wasted a lot of time.
If you're not willing, you should have been off watching an episode of Gilligan's Island or some other
time waster rather than spend time in this public speaking course.
If you're not willing to practice on video, it's absolutely the most important part of this process
because you have a lifetime of experience watching speakers.
You already know what's boring, you already know what you don't like.
You already know what's distracting.
So when you watch a video of yourself and you find yourself doing a boring data dump or going from one
foot to the other or grabbing a lectern, like you're scared to death, it's going to be obvious to
you and it's going to motivate you to change, to improve yourself.
Here's the other thing that's going to do if you actually do what I've asked you to do, which is keep
practicing on video until you can look at the video and say, wow, that's a great speaker.
The person's interesting, the person seems confident.
If I can speak like that person, I'll be a star in my industry.
If you actually practice until you get to that point, something magical happens.
At that point, it becomes impossible to be nervous about public speaking or to be fearful to be full
of anxiety.
The reason you're nervous if you are before a speech or a presentation is there's a part of you wondering,
I might be awful, I might be boring, I might look stupid, they might not understand me.
Well, guess what?
All of those things could in fact, be true.
You won't know until you watch a video of yourself.
Now back to what I was talking about earlier with the the analogy of the text, the print information.
You're probably not nervous or fearful before sending an email to your boss because you already know
you got rid of the spelling errors.
You got rid of the grammar errors.
It makes sense.
One of your colleagues proved it.
You're not nervous about that.
What if somebody asked you?
You're at a comfortable dinner party and somebody asked you.
How you met your spouse or your significant other.
Probably be hard for you to be nervous about that because you've said it many times.
You're comfortable with it.
It's almost impossible to get nervous if somebody asks you a question like that, if you already know
how you're coming across.
You know how you want to say it.
It is exactly the same thing with speeches and presentations.
Even if you've never given the speech before to a live audience.
If you keep practicing it on video until you like it, it's going to just fill you with confidence.
You will have eliminated most of the problems that affect most speakers now.
I could give you a 24 hour course and go through every single little detail.
Don't play with your finger.
Look people in the eye for a full thought.
I can go through all those little things.
But you know what?
You already know what you like and don't like.
But you don't know how to apply it to your own speech until you watch it on video.
So rather than go on and on and on and on, I'd rather free up more time for you to practice your speech.
Watch it on video and to do it again and again and again.
Now some people have problems seeing anything they like with their own presentation.
So you may want to bring in a friend, a colleague.
Have them critique it, but always start off with a positive.
Ask them what they liked.
What did you do?
Well, because I've seen this countless times.
Someone does 25 things, right?
But they had some us and ums and they just fixate on the ums and ahs like it's the worst thing in the
world and they completely ignore all their strengths.
You don't want to do that.
So sometimes it's helpful to bring in a partner family members if you can avoid it.
Don't because family members think they're helping the most by just telling you what's wrong.
That's not what helps when it comes to the video critique.
You've got to spend equal time strengths, what's working, what's good to do more of weaknesses, what
to do less of.
You constantly have to build the strengths.
So before you go to the next lesson, please give your speech.
Right now.
You already have the outline because you have five messages and you have a story for each one or a prop
or a visual.
And now practice your speech on video.
Keep doing it until you like it.

--- Concluding Thoughts On Speaking to Large Audiences ---

If you've gotten this far and you've followed the exercises, as I've suggested, practicing on video,
you're now in great shape.
You're ready to give a speech to any size audience.
Could be 100, 1000, 10,000.
You are absolutely ready.
I do want to leave you with a couple of positive, uplifting thoughts about this whole process.
Here's the thing that a lot of people don't realize about speaking in front of large audiences.
It's actually easier than speaking to small audiences.
Hear me out.
If you're talking to ten colleagues around a conference room and you're conversational and you have
some good examples, maybe you get up and you walk around to point out something on the whiteboard.
Big deal.
Everyone can do that.
Everyone does that.
Anyone can do that.
You don't really get any brownie points for that.
But if you do exactly the same thing in front of hundreds of people or a thousand people, you're very
same peers who thought nothing of you doing it in front of nine other people will look at you and say,
Wow, I couldn't do that.
I didn't know he had it in him.
I didn't know she had it in him.
Wow.
Did you see that person command the stage?
You get credit for doing something that everyone else does all the time just talking.
Now, here's the other funny thing.
Simply walking across a stage and talking when you're in front of a large group is perceived as a difficult
thing.
Wow.
Look at that.
He walked across the stage so commanding like a professional speaker, I would be scared.
I would want to stand behind the lectern with my notes or next to that computer.
That is unfortunately what happens to a lot of people when they are in the audience.
Fortunately for you, they perceive what you're doing is difficult as challenging.
All you're doing is walking and talking.
So I urge you, take every opportunity you can to speak in front of large groups.
It just gets easier.
You just get better.
Good luck.

--- The Secret to Introducing Yourself ---

We've all been there.
That trade association meeting, that Chamber of Commerce meeting, where the host says, okay, before
we start, let's all stand up and just introduce ourselves for 30s.
It seems simple.
It seems casual.
No one's asking you to give a big keynote speech.
And still our heart is racing.
What do I say?
We're not even listening to the other people.
We're thinking about what to say.
Now, if you've ever experienced that, you know exactly what I'm talking about.
Here is the reality.
When it comes to simple introduction speeches, there's three possible outcomes for every single introduction
speech you give to yourself.
Number one, you make an awful impression.
You're stammering, your tongue tied.
You can't say anything.
You're.
Oh, I'm so nervous.
You say something stupid, inarticulate.
That happens every once in a while.
I can think of maybe three times in my life, but that's pretty rare.
Chances are that you're really not going to do that.
The second option is you say something.
It's interesting.
It's memorable.
People want to come up to you afterwards, introduce themselves to you, give you their card.
That's great.
That's an ideal scenario.
That also doesn't happen very often, but that's what you're going to learn how to do after we finish
this course.
The third option is you stand up.
Hello, my name is blah, blah blah.
I am with blah blah blah, blah company.
We do blah, blah, blah, blah, blah and blah, blah, blah, blah.
And then you sit down and the result is nobody remembers anything.
They don't remember your name.
They don't remember the name of your law firm or your company or your organization, and they don't
remember what you do.
You just sounded like Charlie Brown's teacher.
What?
What, what, what, what?
It's all generic stuff.
That's the real danger for most of us.
It's lost opportunity.
It's not that we give a bad impression or a horrible impression or people see our hands shaking.
The real danger is we make no impression at all.
We've taken time away from our family, friends, other activities to go across town to some meeting,
possibly two, possibly three hours out of your evening or day or lunchtime to meet people to try to
advance our organization, make new contacts.
And we blew it.
That's just not a good idea.
So I'm going to teach you exactly how to do this.
And this is a brief course, folks, because we only have to prepare a 32nd speech.
But make no mistake about it, this is a speech.
That's why you're nervous about it or uncomfortable with it.
Public speaking is the number one fear people have.
So standing up, even sitting down in a chair in a circle with eight other people, introducing yourself
is a type of public speaking.
That's why people get nervous.
That's why we need a plan.
That's why we need to rehearse and that's what we're going to do right now.

--- You Will Avoid doing These Things At All Costs ---

So here's how I would introduce myself if I were introducing myself.
The way most people introduce themselves at networking events and professional associations.
Hi, I'm TJ Walker.
I'm president of Media Training Worldwide.
I founded the company and started training in 1984, and I provide a whole array of professional training
services, including public speaking, media training, crisis communications.
I've written numerous books on the subject, and I really appreciate being here today and meeting all
of you.
That's how most people introduce themselves.
And you know what?
It's awful.
It's boring.
What's wrong with the way I introduce myself there?
Well, I started off and everything I said is about me, and it was boring.
I started off with my name.
Well, nobody at this stage of the relationship cares about my name.
They don't care about your name either.
I gave my title.
No one really cares about title.
I talked about me, me, me, me when I started my firm way back when.
Why in the world do I think anyone would care about that?
It's boring.
It's unmemorable.
Now, if I gave an introduction just like that, nobody would be thinking, Wow, that guy is awful.
That's horrible.
That's boring.
Wow.
He seems.
I don't think it would generate that sort of reaction.
The reaction it would generate is I'm thinking about what I'm going to say next.
I don't even know what this guy it would it would create a response of nothing.
And that's our real danger here, folks.
Our danger is not breaking out with flop sweat, fainting and having to be carted out of the room.
The real danger we have when we're coming up with our introduction speech is that it's just so boring.
Nobody remembers it even two seconds later and no one has a reason to come meet you.
So that's what you don't want.
In a moment, I'm going to tell you the right way.
I'm going to demonstrate the right way, but I need you to have a firm mental image of what not to do.
Don't start with your name, your rank, your title, the history of your company, and an abstract
list of services.
That's what most people do.
I can't tell you how many times I've been to a Chamber of Commerce event or other networking event,
and some lawyer will stand up.
My name is this.
The name of my firm is Cheatem and Dewey and Howe and blah blah blah.
We do all the array of services of litigation, civil, criminal.
And it sounds exactly like every single lawyer you've ever heard talking about a midsize or large firm.
There's absolutely no differentiation there.
Nothing interesting.
It's all generic.
Generic is your enemy when you're introducing yourself.
People don't remember it.
And let's clarify.
Your goal again is not to get through the introduction.
Your goal is not to embarrass people or embarrass yourself in the introduction.
Your goal is to have people remember something about you, have something to talk about later, have
a reason to come up to you, give you their card and start a conversation.
That is the goal of a self introduction.
So let's be very clear on that.
So keep in mind what not to do.
I'm going to tell you what to do in just a moment.

--- This Is The Right Way for You ---

So I've showed you the wrong way of introducing yourself.
Let me demonstrate not the perfect way.
There's a lot of different ways you could do it.
But let me introduce to you how I introduce myself.
So person next to me has just sat down.
It's now my turn.
Here's how I would do it.
Imagine The New York Times calls you today and wants to interview you about your business and they talk
to you for 20 minutes.
Are you absolutely confident that the 1 or 2 quotes you're going to get tomorrow are going to make you
look good and are what you want?
Hi, I'm TJ Walker and I teach people how to speak to the media to get the results that they want.
If you give me a business card at the end of the meeting, I will give you a free copy of my book,
Media Training A to Z.
That's it.
That is how I introduce myself if I'm at a typical business meeting, speakers, conference, trade
association or a chamber of Commerce and everyone is asked to go around and 20 or 30s introduce themselves.
Now is that spell binding oratory?
And everyone's going to go, Wow, he's the best speaker ever.
No, but there are a number of things about that introduction, that work, that work for me and can
work for you.
For starters, I didn't start with my name.
Me, me, me, me.
I started, by the way, that whole introduction was less than 30s.
You can go back and time it right now.
It wasn't long, but I didn't start with the obvious by saying my name because everybody starts with
their name.
Instead, I focused on the audience.
I said, Imagine you are called by the New York Times today.
People can visualize that to talk about your business.
So I'm talking about the audience, not me.
Basic tip of public speaking.
Any time you talk about your audience rather than yourself, you're winning.
People care about themselves more than they care about you.
The Speaker So that's the first principle I talked about the audience.
I introduced a problem that actually created a little emotion.
It's nerve wracking to think, Wow, The New York Times is calling me, They're talking to me.
What are those quotes going to be?
Oh, my gosh, I don't want to look like a fool.
Anyone who's ever been interviewed has had that experience where they don't really know what quotes
are going to go in the story.
So I introduced a problem, a problem that people could relate to and likely had some emotion surrounding,
because whether it's happened to them, it's happened to a close friend, family member, a colleague
at work where there was an interview.
They weren't quite sure how it would turn out.
So I talk about them.
I introduce a problem.
It has a particular setting, a situation, a conflict involved that they have feelings about.
But then I introduce the solution.
I teach people how to solve that problem, how to get the quotes they want in the story.
And then I have a very specific solution.
I will give you my book, Media Training A to Z at no charge.
So I've introduced the problem, I've introduced the solution, and I've introduced a solution that
cost nothing.
I'm not asking them to whip out a checkbook or a credit card, so I don't seem self-serving.
And now I've given people an excuse to come up to me.
Hi, T.J. Nice to meet you.
Here's my card.
I'd love to take a look at that book.
So now we have a conversation.
They remember what I do.
Again, if you remember from our first lecture, I said the biggest challenge when you're introducing
yourself is getting people to remember anything about what it is you do.
Now, this works for me.
I'm not saying you have to say it exactly like I do, but the basic formula of focus on a need people
have and how you solve it rather in a specific format rather than saying something.
I'm a communications consultant and I hope people will.
All aspects of communication training.
That's how I could have said it.
Abstract, boring.
But by giving a particular example of imagine you are called today by the New York Times, they're interviewing
you about your business.
That's not abstract.
People can visualize it, they can taste it.
They can touch it.
So if you're an employment lawyer to just stand up and say, I'm with the firm of blank, blank and
blank, and we help people with all aspects of of employment law, blah, blah, blah, boring and abstract
and.
Instead to stand up and say, What if you walked in tomorrow and your most troublesome employee was
gone?
But there was a note saying, I'll see you in court.
How would you feel?
Well, that gets people's attention.
Then mention your name and how you help people solve those employment issues.
That would get a lot more attention.
Now, I don't want to sound like it always has to be dramatic or cheesy or anything artificial, but
the basic focus is how do you help people in a specific manner?
That's the first part.
That's the hook.
The second part is giving people something of value.
Now, I realize not everyone is a writer, but I do think if you try hard, you should be able to come
up with something that's useful.
It could be top ten tips for reducing your your taxes.
If you are a small business owner working from home.
If you're at a local Chamber of Commerce event specifically for small businesses.
You could put together a one pager with quick tips if you are a CPA and that might be something that
people would then come up to you and say, Yeah, I would like that, can you send it to me?
It starts a conversation.
It starts connecting you with substance with this other person rather than here's just another generic
face getting it over the cheese plate and the the bar.
What did this person do again?
So that's my recommendation to you.
Figure out how you can talk about what you do through the eyes of someone in the audience.
The Hook.
The second part.
What is an easy way, an unthreatening, non-threatening way for people to come up to you if it's just
if you have any questions about how you can keep from being sued for sexual harassment because you're.
That might be too intimidating to people to come up and ask you for questions.
The beauty of having some product, a video and by the way, all these products are virtual.
I'm not lugging around a big stack of books with me.
I'm emailing people a PDF, a digital version of the book, so there's no extra cost for me.
So that's what I recommend you do.
Come up with something.
A video, an online course like this one could be a perfect give away, but it could be as simple as
a top ten list to put on your refrigerator of how to reduce your recycling waste.
If you want to something simple and focused that is perceived to have some value where people don't
have to talk to you for a long time, just Hey, that thing you mentioned about giving away, I'm interested.
Send it to me.
Now you've got their card.
I'm not suggesting you spam them forever and be sending them emails all the time, but it just it helps
with the connection.
You can now ask more about what they do.
You can see if this is a good possible business connection, cultural connection, Personal connection.
So that's my challenge for you.
Now I want you to come up with an introduction for yourself where you're talking about the audience
asking them to imagine something in their life and how you solve it.
And then I want you to think about something you can give them.
So think about that right now.

--- Here is the Single Most Important Thing to Do - 1st Video Rehearsal ---

Okay.
I've been easy on you so far.
Now's the part you're not going to like.
But it's the most important part of this entire course.
I need you to grab your cell phone or any other video camera, and I need you to practice your introduction
right now.
And you got to capture it on video.
I know you don't want.
Oh, I don't like my voice and my hairstyle.
Guess what?
Everyone in that room that you're introducing yourself to has to hear your voice.
They have to see your face.
So you're not hiding anything with them.
You're only hiding from yourself.
So you've got to bite the bullet.
You've got to.
Nobody likes to do this.
Nobody likes the sound of their own voice.
It's the only way to be supremely confident when you're introducing yourself.
It's the only way to know if you're being too soft or if you're playing with your ring finger or if
you're rocking back and forth.
You've got to do it on video.
So no more dithering.
Do not fast forward the video to the next lesson.
Don't just sort of kick back and scan.
And this course is a complete, utter waste of time If you don't follow this step, in fact, cancel
and ask for your money back.
It's not going to be worth your while unless you do this one step.
So record yourself on video.
It could be with a webcam, it could be on an iPad, it could be on a cell phone.
But not just audio, not to the mere complete waste of time, not to your dog, but on video.
And then I need you to watch it and I need you to figure out what do you like, make a list, what do
you not like?
And make a list.
Do that right now.
It's the most important exercise in the entire course.

--- Friend Feedback ---

If you've done what I've asked, you should be feeling pretty comfortable now, fairly confident about
your introduction, your ability to introduce yourself in front of small groups or large groups.
Now let's do one more test.
I want you to take that best video that you made of yourself, and I want you to email it to several
friends, but I want you to do it in a particular way.
I want you to call a friend, email it to them right then and say, Hey, Bill, or Hey Sandy, I just
emailed you something.
Can you take a quick look?
I just need your feedback.
It's only 30s long.
Ideally, they're at a computer, they're at a desktop or someplace where they can actually click on
it, watch it, hear it while you're on the phone, and then right after they've heard it and you can
hear it coming through the phone, ask them, Hey, I just wonder if you can give me some feedback.
What did you like about that?
What do you remember about it?
See what they say.
And if they just say, oh, you know, everything's professional, that's great.
It means we probably didn't say something interesting.
You want them talking about the specific thing You mentioned the hook.
You also want them saying, well, you seem relaxed, comfortable.
Ideally, you have them comment that they didn't even know you had that special report or that book
or that special white paper you're giving away.
They'd like it themselves.
I would also ask if there's anything they don't like.
If they say, Well, you seem scared or that product you're giving me.
Sounds really cheesy.
It sounds like an infomercial.
Listen to them.
Doesn't mean I would change everything just based on what one person says.
But here's my challenge to you.
I want you to call five people, try to talk to at least three.
Let's get some independent verification.
You already feel good about your introduction because you've watched it, you've practiced it and watched
it to the point where you like it.
But if you have independent verification from others telling you what the message is, that they get
it, that they like it, you're coming across well, that's going to further boost your confidence and
you're going to be fantastic the next time you have to introduce yourself.
But there's also a possibility that you are missing something, that you're using an acronym or an initial.
I mean, this is this is frankly a big problem with a lot of associations.
Hi, I'm TJ Walker.
CSP and I well, no.
One outside the couple thousand members of the Professional Speakers Association know what CSP is and
it's just confusing my advice other than MD or JD, I wouldn't use any initials when introducing yourself
that I wouldn't even use those initials.
By the way, I'm not a CSP.
I don't want anyone thinking I'm inflating credentials here.
So I want you to call five friends, associates, colleagues, send them the video, ask them to watch
it.
Right.
Then you want the immediate feedback, their immediate response.
Do that right now.

--- Your Future Great Introductions ---

So what did your friends say?
Did they like your introduction?
Were they able to tell you exactly what you were hoping they would?
Did they ask you for that free item, that special report, that white paper, whatever it was that
you're giving away?
Did they ask you for that?
Now you may decide not to do a give away.
My main goal for you is that you give people a reason to come up and talk to you, that you make them
remember something interesting about you.
So if they see you later at the cocktail hour or over at the snack bar, they can reference something
you said in the introduction and this can start a conversation.
Let's not forget, nobody's going to make $1 million deal or get $10 million contract by a ten second
introduction or a 32nd introduction.
That's not what it's about.
What it is about is helping you make the most of every opportunity you have to meet people to bring
more people into your life, whether you're after more clients, more prospects, more colleagues,
more industry associates, more people to raise money from, more people to give back to.
You want to connect with people, Be completely for social reasons, too.
So I'm not passing judgment on any of the reasons why you want to meet people.
I'm simply trying to make it more effective, more efficient in your use of time.
Let's face it, myself included, we've all been to networking events before and maybe left with a stack
of cards by people who are walking around here.
Here's my card.
Complete waste of time.
And what do you do to someone like that?
You typically throw away their card.
But we've also been to events and you've talked to a few people, but it's just sort of ho hum, Oh,
what do you do?
And you can leave the event sort of scratching your head, Why did I even bother doing that?
How many of these people business cards am I even can remember anything about them?
Why would I even follow up with them?
Why not just throw it away in the trash can on the way out of the event?
We've all been there.
Ladies and gentlemen.
What I'm trying to do is to equip you so that you can get a lot more out of every single time you go
to an event, every single time you introduce yourself.
As I said at the very beginning, it's an opportunity to make a bad impression, which you no longer
are going to do.
It's a chance to make no impression, which in my opinion, is what happens to 99% of the world, or
it's a chance to make a great impression and to attract people to you.
That's what you want every single time you speak.
And obviously if you are going to an entrepreneurial event and there's entrepreneurs pitching for money
and you introduce yourself as a venture capitalist looking to invest, well, you can be the worst introducer
in the world and you're going to be surrounded.
You're going to be mobbed by all the young investors and investors of every age coming to you.
But most of the time, for most people, it's not going to be that easy of just like dangling, you
know, raw meat in front of a wild animal the way venture capitalists would be to investors.
So that's why it's important to really think about this, not memorize, but to think about it.
Let me end with a note on memorization.
Memorization is, number one, hard to do?
Number two, it's even harder to do when you're feeling stress.
So standing up in front of 12 people, introducing yourself might not seem as scary as standing in front
of 12,000 people.
But it still takes most people out of their comfort zone.
And when you're feeling nervous, that's why your palms are sweaty, your feet are sweaty, your body
is telling you, run, get out of here.
Adrenaline is flowing.
When that happens, your mental faculties shut down because your body is saying run.
Don't think that's one reason why I really recommend not memorizing your self introduction.
The other problem with memorizing something is you're now like an actor on Broadway memorizing and delivering
a script.
Well, here's the thing about acting.
It's really hard.
We can make fun of dumb actors all we want.
It's a really hard skill.
I can't do it.
Someone gives me a script to memorize.
I'm awful at that because it's hard to remember.
If you do remember it word for word, it's hard to deliver it without sounding like you are reading
a canned speech or you have memorized something, so don't do it.
Focus on the idea you want to communicate and just talk it through in a conversational way.
Don't memorize.
That's extra work.
That's extra stress.
What I'm trying to do is relieve stress for you on every aspect of this.
And you know what?
When you're in these meetings now, instead of worrying and thinking, Oh, there's three people away
from me, it's going to be my turn, what am I going to say?
You can actually listen to this person over here about what they do, what they have to offer, and
why you may want to go up and talk to that person afterwards.
That's the other beauty of this is if you plan and you have a process and you're all set, you're not
going to be sweating it, waiting for your turn to introduce yourself.
You can actually be present.
I hate to sound all new agey, but you can be in the moment actually listening to other people instead
of thinking in yourself, Oh no, it's going to be my turn.
What am I going to say?
I hate this.
I hate you don't hate yourself.
You don't hate introducing yourself anymore because you're now good at it.
The number one way to get over hating anything or feeling nervous about it is to actually get good at
it.
And now, since you followed the lessons in this course, you are good at introducing yourself.
So I wish you luck in all your future introductions.
I'm also asking you, begging you in the discussion forum right here in this class, Please, please
record a video of yourself introducing yourself.
I would love to know who you are and I would love to hear how you're introducing yourself.
I'm TJ Walker.
Thanks for spending this time with me and I look forward to meeting you.

--- What Makes a TED Talk ---

So you want to be a TEDx speaker?
For starters, let's figure out what actually is a TEDx speaker.
It's really just someone who gives a speech or a presentation.
That's interesting when you think about it, because after all, most speakers in the world at most
conventions, at most conferences, the lecture halls of most universities are boring.
They're way too long.
They're way too boring, and nobody remembers anything.
Now, this course is going to go into a lot of very specific details of things that most TEDx presentations
have.
But before you get into the specifics of how this exact 17 minutes or this walking around on the stage,
you've got to really step back and ask yourself, do you have something interesting to say?
It can't just be a really good sales pitch on why to buy my paper for your copy machine.
Now, if you've got some way of creating paper out of trees and it doesn't chop down trees and it solves
the energy crisis and it's completely biodegradable in a way that doesn't cause any landfill problem,
well then maybe you have the elements of a TEDx speech, but simply buy my product because it delivers
a greater value.
That's not a TEDx speech.
Ideas worth spreading.
That's the slogan of they do take it very, very seriously.
One of the reasons TEDx is successful as an organization is they have the discipline to say no because
most trade associations, most conferences all over the world, they let people speak because they have
political influence or because of their stature in the industry or because they underwrite it or they're
sponsors or because they have high name ID or because they're famous.
All sorts of reasons people get invited to give speeches at organizations.
TEDx is different if you can't actually deliver an interesting speech and deliver it well, they don't
care who you are.
You're not going to speak because of that.
They have a better brand, a better reputation than, frankly, anyone I can think of when it comes
to a forum just for speakers.
If you're like me, you probably watch a lot of TEDx speeches because it's frankly more interesting
than what you see on regular television.
And you can watch it on your smart TV, on your cell phone, on your tablet and anywhere.
And even if it's not a topic that you're fascinated by, you always learn one thing.
There's always something compelling.
There's something that kind of changes your thought process and it never goes on and on and on too long.
You know, it's going to be for a set amount of time and it's typically going to be less than 20 minutes.
That's the beauty of TEDx.
So if you want to be a TEDx speaker, you've got to first step back and ask yourself, Do you really
have something that's genuinely interesting?
Do you have something that is an idea worth spreading?
If you don't have that, you can still be a great public speaker.
You can be a great sales presenter, you can be a good spokesperson, you can be a good CEO.
You might not be a good candidate to speak at TEDx.
So that's the first thing you've got to do, is really step back and ask yourself, Do you fundamentally
have an idea worth spreading?

--- Passion for an Idea Worth Spreading ---

Do you have a great idea that the world absolutely must know about and have a huge passion for sharing
it?
If you don't have both of those things, you're probably not going to be invited to speak at Ted.
Now, I know this is a course on how to speak at Ted, but I would caution you, I really don't think
it's particularly productive to just sit down and say, you know, I want to write a speech for Ted
today because I think it would be prestigious.
It would make me look cool.
It would make my friends think I'm smart if I spoke at Ted.
That's not the attitude to have.
If you look at most of the speakers who speak at Ted, they have been speaking on this subject for years
and years and years to a wide variety of audiences.
Anyone who will listen to them.
Al Gore has spoken at Ted many times, but he gave his speech on the environment thousands of times
before he ever addressed a Ted audience.
And he may get $200,000 a speech when he gives that talk now.
But for years and years and years, he gave that presentation for free.
So I would ask you to really step back a minute rather than thinking so much about I want to prepare
this Ted talk.
Think about the subject.
You have the ideas you have that you really have a passion for.
Ask yourself if you absolutely knew you would never, ever, ever be able to speak at Ted.
Would you still want to speak on this subject?
If the answer is maybe not, then you shouldn't waste your time anymore.
You're not a good candidate for speaking at Ted again.
Watch the people who speak at Ted.
Do some research on them.
Check them out on YouTube.
Quite often you're going to find very similar speeches they've given, sometimes much longer, but similar
speeches on the same topic hundreds of times in other venues.
And you can see they've been speaking on this subject for a long, long time.
You've got to have, for starters, a subject and you've got to have some expertise.
It doesn't mean you have to be a PhD and a professor from Harvard, but you have to have something where
you're living in this world.
This is not a high school debate class where you just arbitrarily pick a topic of euthanasia for it
or against it.
It's not like that.
Ted does an excellent job of weeding out people who are just looking for something to put on their resume
that they spoke at Ted.
They are looking for people who have spent years, sometimes decades, sometimes a lifetime completely
immersed in a particular subject, a particular issue.
It doesn't matter if it's creating new formats of distributing music or if it's creating low cost housing.
They want people who live in that world who are true experts, who are speaking on it but are doing
it and are living it.
So you've got to find out what that is.
Now, you should not have to spend a lot of time going to the Internet, figuring out what you spend
time on.
You should know what you spend time on every day for the last year, half a dozen years, or even decades.
That's what you need to pull from.
Speak from your experience.
Of course, it's nice to put in new research that changes your thinking, and a good TEDx speech does
have an element of surprise.
A great TEDx speech will have a way of shifting your thinking about a particular subject.
For example, one of their recent speakers talked about how her whole life she advised people to minimize
stress, get rid of stress.
Stress is a killer.
But she did more research and found out that particular types of stress and your attitudes towards stress
are what's important.
If you have a good attitude towards stress and you see it as a challenge that can help you reach your
goals.
It actually doesn't hurt your health at all.
It can enhance your life and enhance your health.
So look for something where even if you've worked in a subject area for ten, 20, 30 years, you've
learned, you've changed.
There's something new, and that's what excites you.
Now, Anthony Robbins has spoken at TEDx.
He's not the main person.
I want to be your role model because he's somewhat out of the norm.
But again, he's someone who's been speaking his whole life.
Whether you love him or hate him, I don't think anyone can deny he has a real passion for his particular
brand of personal improvement, personal development and whether Ted ever invited him or not would have
no impact on how he spends his life.
And the fact that he's speaking often hundreds of times a year.
And he had to change his form.
He's used to speaking for three days.
He had to speak for 17 or so minutes.
So there's a lot.
Of different types of speakers.
But the one thing you do see is people have a passion.
Now they're not all gung ho and high energy like Anthony Robbins.
Sometimes people are very restrained and don't even move their feet at all.
But you can tell they really, really care about this.
It could be about something of truly global significance of how to minimize war.
Or it could be, as one TEDx speaker did, devote an entire presentation on how to tie your shoes more
effectively by doing one thing the opposite way.
There's all types of good speakers out there, but there's always something to change your way of thinking
where you feel like you learned something interesting and quite often useful.
So you've got to figure out what that topic is.
What is it that you're already living in that you're already an expert on, that you have a true passion
for?
That's where your topic has to come from, not by glomming on to some hot topic of the day.

--- Tell a Story ---

TEDx presentations are very different from most presentations at corporations conferences meetings,
because most corporations have speakers who give big, long, boring data dumps.
Facts.
Fact.
Bullet point, Bullet point.
And the speaker tries to do too much.
They overwhelm their audience with so much data, it's boring.
Everyone is pulling out their cell phones and checking their email and nobody really pays attention.
A TEDx speech is different.
In part, they simply impose a discipline on speakers of don't try to communicate more than a handful
of ideas.
And I mean really no more than a handful.
Sometimes just one idea because then you have the time to tell a story.
All great TEDx speakers have stories.
I don't mean that they're funny stories.
I don't mean that they're necessarily wildly dramatic and involve shootings or death, but they're recounting
real experiences.
A recent TEDx speaker, I saw a woman talking about her experiences in the music industry and how the
music industry can evolve.
Talks very specifically about her personal interactions with real fans.
One came up to her and said, Here's a $10 bill.
I want you to have this.
I feel embarrassed.
I stole your music from a friend's CD and I didn't pay you, and I want you to have it.
She gave personal stories, fleshing out her point.
Her point is people in the music industry have to make their customers care and want to compensate artists.
It can't be about forcing them here or stopping this download, punishing them, suing them.
It has to be about getting actual music lovers to care enough to give to the artist.
And she had compelling story after story after story to make it come alive.
If you want to be a TEDx speaker or someone who's good enough to be a TEDx speaker, the biggest difference
between awful speakers and TEDx speakers is TEDx speakers have great stories.
Not just at the beginning of the speech, not just at the end of the speech, not just to manipulate
people, but for every important idea they have a story to flesh it out because people can visualize
it and their mind's eye, they can relate to it, they can understand it, and they can remember it.
So when you come up with your idea and your main mission of what you want to accomplish in your presentation,
you have got to have stories that involve real conversations with real people about real problems.
And one of them needs to be you, how you felt, how it was resolved, what the outcome was.
And you can say, well, there was no time.
I only have 12 minutes or I only have 17 minutes.
You do have time because the story is not an extra.
It's not a frivolous little dessert.
It is the fundamental avenue for really getting people to connect to your ideas, to understand it and
remember it.
There's always time for a relevant, important story.
If you have to cut something, you cut the additional points.
There are many speakers at TEDx who are speaking on their book.
Their book, if they just read it out loud, would take 14 hours.
They've got to figure out what's most important and deliver that in 12 or 14 or 17 minutes.
They've got to make tough decisions on editing and it's got to come up with what's most important.
But what is absolutely essential, what is not a luxury, are stories that really dramatize the problems
you're solving and showing You're living it and experiencing it that way.
Your audience doesn't have just an intellectual understanding of the problems you're dealing with.
They can see it, feel it, taste it, touch it, and have an emotional connection with it.
That's what you need to be a TEDx speaker or a good speaker anywhere, any time.

--- Plan Your Visuals ---

If you're going to have a great TEDx speech, you need to think of the visuals now.
TEDx is very different from most conferences, and they simply have no tolerance for awful boring visuals.
You cannot go to them and say, Here's my PowerPoint deck of 30 slides and 12 bullet points on each
slide.
What the people at TEDx know is that audiences around the world do not really enjoy watching someone
speak and then having to read a bunch of text up on the slide, whether they are in person in the room
where the speech is given or watching later online on YouTube or at the TEDx site.
What they understand is people like visuals.
So if you're going to use visuals, it needs to be a picture, an image.
It could be something you actually hold up.
It could be a prop.
If you're going to use visuals, don't be lazy.
The laziest thing in the world to do is to just type a bunch of bullet points, text it, won't cut
it for TEDx and frankly, it won't cut it anywhere.
If you really want audiences to understand you and remember you, text is boring.
If you want people to read, give them a book, email them later.
Don't just give them a bunch of stuff up on a slide so you don't have to have visuals for your TEDx
presentation.
Do keep that in mind.
Your ideas need to stand on their own.
Your stories need to paint pictures in your audience's mind, and it could be just the background that
they have for the particular forum that day and the staging that works for you.
You don't have to have visuals, but the question to ask is not whether you need visuals.
No one cares about you.
The Speaker The question is, do you have some visuals that will help your audience understand the concept
better?
Remember the concept better when Al Gore is talking about global warming, he's showing a picture.
Here's what the glacier looked like 30 years ago.
Here's what it looks like today.
One's covered with a lot of snow and ice.
One has a lot of green on it.
The visuals make his point in a much more powerful way than simply putting statistics of ice cap melting
2% a year.
You've got to have visuals that make your case in a way that people can look at it, see it, understand
it.
So the rule of thumb for any visual, does it make your audience understand your point better than you
saying it?
Does it make them remember it better than you saying it?
If you can't say yes to both, they're lousy visuals, get rid of them.
But put some real thought into this.
The folks at Ted do a fantastic job of staging of lighting the opening sound effects.
They're making this thing look like a slick production.
And this could be the one time you speak in your entire life where more than a million people see it.
So it doesn't have to be Hollywood special effects.
In fact, I would avoid anything with special effects unless you're speaking on new developments and
special effects.
But come up with that right picture a graph that's really, really simple and focuses on just one idea
and perhaps no more than two variables could do the trick.
Think about your visuals and make sure it helps your audience do that.
You'll be in good shape.

--- Timing is Everything ---

For many speakers, even great speakers.
One of the biggest challenges of speaking at TEDx is the length.
Now they've changed the length requirements over the year.
Currently, as this is produced, the maximum length of a speech at TEDx is 18 minutes.
A lot of people have trouble with that.
They're used to speaking for a full hour or two hours or a training for a day.
So a part of what you have to do if you're going to be a TEDx speaker is you've got to have the discipline
of figuring out what's most important and what you can deliver in 18 minutes because you can't just
speak faster.
That's not going to cut it.
You can't cram more facts into a PowerPoint slide because it's highly unlikely they're going to let
you use a PowerPoint slide.
And if they did let you, you wouldn't want to, because that's a horrible way to run a presentation.
You've got to make the most with the time you have.
If Lincoln in his Gettysburg Address can make one of the most memorable speeches ever in just a couple
of minutes or 2 or 3 minutes, then you need to be able to figure out how to communicate in 18 minutes.
Now, sometimes they have even greater restrictions on time.
They may tell you your maximum is 14 minutes.
It could be even less.
Don't complain.
Don't whine.
Don't say yes and think, well, once I get up there, they won't pull me off.
It doesn't work like that.
You need to plan accordingly.
And what that means is you have to be a better editor.
As Mark Twain once said, I'm sorry I wrote you a long letter.
I didn't have time to write you a short letter.
It's actually harder for most people to give a good 18 minute speech than it is to give an hour speech
for an hour.
You can be less disciplined.
You can sort of meander around.
You can kind of go with the flow.
You can be inspired 18 minutes.
You've got to have a plan and you've got to stick with that plan.
And that means you don't have extra time.
Now, here's the thing.
Some of you think, well, 18 minutes, I've done that.
Here's my speech.
I read it silently and it was only 17.5 minutes.
I'm in good shape now.
People read silently much faster than they read out loud.
And you read much faster out loud to yourself in a room standing in one place than you do when you are
walking around, pausing and looking at people.
So in order to get your time right, you're going to have to practice your speech in front of live audiences.
And if you're just practicing with yourself or 1 or 2 colleagues, if you're trying to hit that 18 minute
mark, I wouldn't go more than about 16.5 minutes.
If you're practicing in a small room with just one person because it will take you more time, you'll
pause more when you're giving the actual speech, you're in a large room.
You pause.
You need that pause to sort of drift out across the room and let people reflect on what you've said.
You hit a really important point.
Are you ask a rhetorical question.
Your pause will be longer in a larger room, so it will take you more time to give your speech.
Ted takes this very seriously and I commend them for it.
There are a lot of people in the world who have good stuff, have good content, but they just go on
and on and on and on forever.
And Ted does not really want to have someone with a big stick or a cane to jerk you off after 30 minutes.
So they do it.
A really good job of managing expectations before you get on that stage.
When they say 18 minutes, they mean it.
If they give you less time than that, they mean it.
That means more preparation on your side.
It means more rehearsal.
It means more editing.
I don't mean you have to memorize every single thing and know where you are by the second as your speech
is progressing.
But you are going to have to take certain message points out.
You are going to have to remove certain stories that maybe people love when you give your speech normally
for 45 minutes or an hour, you've got to really give people your best stuff.
Now, the way to figure out what that is quite often is to speak regularly and ask every audience you
ever speak to.
What did you like about my speech?
What did you like about my presentation?
This is a tip all great speakers do, and that is after you've given a speech, it could be at a university,
a conference, a meeting.
If you're talking to more than ten people, someone's likely to walk up to you and say, Hey, great
speech today.
Don't just say, Oh.
Thanks a lot.
Glad you enjoyed it.
And walk off.
Say thank you.
Tell me, what do you remember?
What stood out?
I do that all the time.
And if someone says, Well, T.J., your speech was just great.
It was fantastic.
You're full of energy and passion.
You're a real pro.
If someone tells me that, then I know my speech was a complete, utter failure.
I don't want people commenting on my style.
I want them remembering the very, very specific message points.
I want them remembering those stories because that's what sticks with people.
The fact that they thought you were a professional or you didn't seem nervous, who cares about that?
You've got to get your audience to remember your key ideas.
So what great speakers do is they use every single speech as a mini focus group.
The audience from that speech to make their next speech a little bit better.
So let's say you have a topic that you speak on quite often and you normally speak for an hour.
If you give that speech a dozen times a year and you consistently ask people what do they remember?
There's probably going to be a huge overlap on a couple of stories or a couple of points.
That's what you're going to use for your Ted Talk.
When you're giving your Ted talk, that's not the time to try new stuff.
This is not amateur hour.
Those of you old enough to remember you get on Ed Sullivan.
That's not the time You try a new song for the first time.
That's the time you play your absolute best song that you've played and you've rehearsed and you know
it's great.
You want to give your best stuff out because your audience could be huge.
Now, not every Ted speech is a huge audience winner, but there are a lot of Ted speakers on arcane
subjects who have a million views on their YouTube channel alone.
That doesn't count all the other places.
The speech may show up, so it could be the largest audience of your life.
Even if you're on TV a lot, it could be the largest audience really listening to you for a sustained
period of time and not just a soundbite on the evening news that may have millions of views.
So that's why it's important to really make sure you have your best stuff and you're essentially the
producer of the show.
Yes, Ted is the producer.
But you're a part of this.
You're at least a co-producer.
So you've got to come in and have your content at the set period of time.
It's not like a news crew coming shooting your whole speech and then figuring out what the best parts
are for the evening news.
You don't want to have to be edited.
You want your whole speech for beginning, middle and end to be watched.
You want it to stand on its own.
You want it to make sense.
You want it to move people.
You want them on the edge of their chair, the edge of their couch, watching you throughout the whole
speech.
And that's part of the beauty of having the speech for 18 minutes.
It's simply harder to bore people and to lose them speaking for 18 minutes versus for two hours.
Now, it is possible to bore people after 18 minutes.
It's possible to bore people after 30s.
So it's not something that cures all the ills.
You can't say, Well, I know I'm kind of boring and tedious, but it's only for 18 minutes.
Remember, most of the people watching your speech are not there in the room live watching you on,
Ted.
They are watching you online.
And we all know how online attention spans are.
People can sometimes tune out after two seconds.
There are plenty of websites.
My own website.
I'm lucky that people stay longer than 90s on my website.
So to actually capture someone and hold their attention for even ten minutes, much less 18 minutes,
is a huge accomplishment.
So you've got to make every second count.
18 minutes is actually an incredibly long time when you're going at it from the mentality of is every
second counting.
That's why you don't see speakers start off with, well, good morning.
I'm so happy to be here.
It's such a great honor to be here at Ted.
I watch all the Ted speakers and I'm a huge fan.
It's been a lifelong goal to speak at Ted and thank you for that wonderful introduction.
I didn't deserve.
Oh, boring.
Cut it out.
Get rid of it.
Start.
Not necessarily by being funny.
Start not by necessarily being dramatic, but start your speech by saying something interesting.
That's important to your audience.
So that's another way.
This discipline of having 18 minutes is very, very helpful because most speakers, even good speakers,
they go through all this boilerplate nonsense before they start their speech.
You don't have time for that.
You got to hop right in, deliver something valuable, engage people, engross them right from the beginning,
the first, second or the first few seconds.
You need to hook people because you're saying something interesting and you're distinguishing yourself
from all the normal, horrible speakers they see everyplace else in life.
So 18 minutes or less, it's all the time in the world if you make every second count.

--- Style AND Substance are Essential ---

When you're giving a Ted talk, the stagecraft of how you come across is very important.
Your performance skills, your platform skills are critically important.
For example, it is very rare to see any speaker at Ted like this holding notes.
The problem with holding notes is it makes the whole thing seem like a tedious exercise.
Listening to a boring assistant professor in college who's nervous and uncomfortable, you destroy the
eye contact, you make it seem less like a conversation, and it's a lot more likely to be a data dump
because there are so many points here, so the notes cannot be visible in your hand.
Get rid now.
You also don't want to write them on your hand like Sarah Palin either.
You also can't be sort of turning your back and reading a PowerPoint bullet point.
That doesn't work either.
The other thing that you see in most business settings, most conventions conferences, is you have
a lectern, what people call a podium.
But a podium is actually what you stand on.
The thing where there's a barrier between you and the audience and something to put your notes on.
The president of the United States uses one, for example.
Ted doesn't allow that.
I commend Ted for that because once you give someone a lectern, you make them passive, you hide them,
you immobilize them, you're creating a barrier between you and the audience.
Ted is very smart and that they get rid of all the trappings that people associate with awful, boring
speakers, and they instead do the things that the highest level of professional speakers do.
People who are really true, true performance artists on the stage, they're also doing the things that
Oprah and other great communicators on TV do.
You don't see Oprah Winfrey when she's on her TV show standing behind a lectern and looking like some
pompous college professor.
So you need to know that going in.
You can say to them, well, you know, this is how I always give my speech.
They don't care.
And I praise the TEDx organizers for telling people they don't care.
They care about what works for their audience.
And they know there's no one in the world better at bringing in huge, massive, massive audiences to
listen to speakers talking about serious things.
Sure, you can be TMZ and show pictures of half naked celebrities and get a lot of views and clicks
and audience.
That's relatively easy.
But actually getting people to listen to serious experts, academics, entrepreneurs, people who've
devoted their life to really accomplishing something, to get masses of people to listen to them, that's
a huge accomplishment.
So Ted does it by basically forcing you to not do all the awful things that remind people of how much
they don't like speakers and how boring most speakers are.
So that's why you don't see the lectern.
You also and there may be a few exceptions, none of this teleprompter stuff.
Here's the problem with teleprompters.
Unless you're used to using a teleprompter every day, most people do something like this.
Good morning.
I am happy to be here today.
My name is TJ Walker as president of Media Training worldwide.
I coach CEOs and top leaders how to give speeches at TEDx and other famous forums.
Hear how awful that is.
What I'm doing is what most people do when they're reading a teleprompter and they're not professional
newsreaders.
They read at the same speed, the same volume, the same tone, and their body and their heads freeze.
So if you're at a TEDx or some smaller group somewhere and maybe you feel I can get away with something,
don't try it.
Teleprompters are great.
If you're the president of the United States and you have to give ten speeches a day on complicated
foreign policy issues, and one wrong slip causes an international incident or a war.
But if you are giving a Ted talk and you're speaking about something that you've devoted a lifetime
to, or at least years of working in it and you know it in and out and you've experienced it, you shouldn't
need a teleprompter.
You should simply be sharing your experiences.
And that's what great speakers do all the time, whether they're at TEDx or anyplace else.
They share experiences and that's what allows them to.
Walk around.
Now I'm not walking around because I just have one little camera on me now.
But Ted has a fancier production and they're going to have a camera person following you and they may
have multiple cameras.
So use the stage.
Sometimes it's just a round little circle, but just taking a step one direction, a step back, occasionally
forward a little bit.
It creates tremendous variety and will make you look more comfortable, more confident, more relaxed
and authoritative.
And it will distinguish you from all the boring, awful speakers out there.
Now, there are plenty of Ted speakers who you can tell are somewhat nervous.
They're not professional speakers.
They just happen to be the world's greatest expert on bees or some other very specific aspect of of
science or mathematics or design.
You don't have to be the world's greatest speaker, but you do have to pay attention to the stagecraft
and to basic performance skills.
And as we'll talk about later, you're going to have to rehearse and you're going to have to rehearse
in a specific way on video.
But before you even worry about rehearsing, you've got to get rid of the crutches that a lot of speakers
use that don't really prop you up and reading, trying to read a speech word for word off paper disaster,
trying to read a teleprompter for most people, most of the time a disaster.
They're not going to have it.
And trying to rely on PowerPoint slides that have text pathetic, horrible disaster.
Don't even try it.
You've simply got to speak.
Now, I'm not opposed to you having some outline, but if you're going to have an outline, what I recommend
for my own clients, which you can occasionally do, is have a single sheet of paper, really large
text that can be on the floor.
You don't want to be seen touching notes.
It's on the floor.
No one will notice it if there is a teleprompter on the floor and it's a screen, I would have it so
that it's not scrolling.
So on the teleprompter you have maybe five points and it's up the whole time.
And that way you don't have to worry about the teleprompter operator going too fast or too slow.
But fundamentally, you're sharing your life story, your life's work.
It's not about remembering any one fact or any one number.
It's about really connecting with people, your passion, telling them what's most important.
And if you have something to show in the form of glaciers that are melting, put it up there and really
talk about the significance Beyond that.
You're going to have to do the things that you see great speakers do, great speakers move their hands.
They do not hold a pen.
If you're holding a pen or a brush or something, then you've immobilized your hands, part of your
body.
You want your hands to move, you want your face to move.
You want your eyebrows to move.
You want your height to change sometimes because you're leaning forward.
You want movement.
Now, not all movement is good if you're going like this the whole time and pacing in a highly consistent
way that will seem like you're nervous if you're fidgeting with your ring on your finger the whole time,
that will make you seem nervous.
All of those things can be eliminated in rehearsal if you rehearse on video, as we'll talk about shortly.
But you do need some movement.
You do need pauses.
You do need eye contact with people in the audience, even though the people watching you on their computer
can't necessarily see that you don't want to just be seen like you're staring straight ahead.
Because even if you're not reading a teleprompter or a script, people will think that you are.
You need natural movement.
Now you've heard people say, Well, just be yourself.
The problem with that advice is it's not particularly helpful because if you're not used to standing
up on a stage, bright lights on your face, all sorts of powerful, successful people staring at you
and knowing millions of people are going to watch you later.
If you're not doing that every day, then the natural thing for you to do is to be scared.
Oh my gosh, I'm scared.
I could look like a fool up here.
So when people give you advice of just be yourself, that's not particularly helpful.
What you have to do is figure out how do you come across when you are at your most comfortable situation,
when you're talking to three friends at a restaurant over a glass of.
Wine.
How do you act when you're speaking to five colleagues that you know and trust in your office and you're
explaining something?
How do you come across?
Chances are you're not stiff and frozen and holding your hands.
Chances are you're gesturing, you're moving, Your voice goes up and down.
There's animation in your voice, there's movement in your face.
That's what you want.
When you are giving your speech.
You have to pay attention to the stagecraft and you've got to pay attention to everything you're sending
out there for people to see and hear.
That includes dress.
You've got to figure out how you want to dress.
Now, not everyone has to dress in a conservative business suit and tie.
You need to dress in a way that's consistent with who you are and what you're about.
If you're an artist, you don't want to wear a conservative business suit.
If you are a bank regulator and you're talking about how we've got to bust up the big banks, you probably
don't want to be seen in jeans and t shirt.
So how you dress is an important part of what your message is.
There's no one perfect way of dressing, but you do need to dress in a way that's consistent with what
you're all about.
Every little detail will be scrutinized and you don't want anything to distract.
If I started this video like this and I said everything exactly the same way, but my tie's like this,
I think a lot of you would be saying, Well, that's weird, why you'd be focusing on the tie rather
than what I'm saying.
Again, you don't have to wear a tie, but you're better off having no tie than having one that's crooked
like that.
So pay attention to every detail.
And the biggest way to do that is you have to rehearse on video.

--- Video Rehearsal is the Most Important Step ---

Okay, here's the part that you're not going to like.
You're not going to like me.
Now, in fact, you may want to go ahead and start writing bad reviews on this course.
You're not going to want to do what I'm going to ask you to do.
But I'm telling you, it is absolutely essential if you want to be a TEDx speaker or if you want to
be a good speaker for any venue.
And here's what you need to do.
You need to practice on video.
You need to record it on your cell phone, on a webcam.
It can be a movie camera if you want.
Or it could be just a very, very cheap webcam that you buy for $10 at the grocery store.
I don't care what kind of camera you use, that's unimportant.
What's important is that you can actually see your speech.
People don't like to do this.
Even good speakers.
Teacher I don't like looking at myself.
I don't like the tone of my voice and oh my gosh, I don't like the fact that my hair is falling out.
Oh, tough.
Everyone watching you at Ted and everyone watching you online is going to have to hear your voice.
They're going to have to see your wrinkles or your jowls or your hair.
So you might as well know how you're coming across to The number one thing I do with my private clients.
Doesn't matter if they're presidents of countries, prime ministers, NFL stars.
The only way to improve your speech is you have to practice on video numerous times.
Well, but, TJ, can I just talk to the mirror?
No.
If you talk to the mirror, if you're like most people, after a while, you're going to think, gosh,
is my nose a little crooked or my eyes bigger than they used to be?
You can't actually focus on delivering your presentation and do it in a mirror and be able to process
it and figure out what's working and what isn't working.
You can't do two things at the same time.
We all like to think we can multitask.
We can't.
You need to give your presentation, have it recorded, and while you're giving it, just focus on giving
your presentation.
Then you need to watch your presentation and you've got to focus just on watching that presentation.
And here's what you've got to do.
You've got to get paper or if you want to do it on your tablet, that's fine too.
But you need to have a line down the middle of whatever screen or paper you're looking at.
Write down the stuff you like on one side, write down the stuff you don't like on the other.
So you've got to give your speech, watch it, grade it.
If you stop right there, you haven't improved anything.
In fact, you probably have discouraged yourself because you're fixated on the things you don't like.
You have to give your speech again and record it again.
Now, maybe you have friends, colleagues, associates who will do this, family members.
But if you don't, you don't get off the hook.
I know you have some video camera near you, your laptop has a camera on it.
Your cell phone has a camera on it.
You don't have any excuses the way you did 30 years ago, even 20 years ago.
Everyone is surrounded by cheap video cameras.
So you've got to practice again and again and again.
So you've done it a second time.
Ideally, the list of things you don't like is shorter.
This time.
The things you do like is longer because nothing else.
You eliminated 1 or 2 of the things you didn't like.
So you've got to really look at it again and figure out what am I still not happy with and what am I
happy with that I have to do more of?
And guess what?
You've got to practice your speech again and review it again.
Keep practicing it until you like how you're coming across, until you're convinced this is the way
you want to look.
This is the way you want to sound.
This is the way you want to move.
This is your message.
These are your stories.
These are your examples.
This is how you want to communicate it.
Every level of style and substance.
Now, for some of you, you might be able to do it in one take.
Great.
Good for you.
But I got to tell you, that's rare for many of you.
It may take 20 takes.
It may take 30 takes, it may take 100 different takes over the course of a year to get to that point
where you're really happy with it.
But you need to get to that point because that's what will give you confidence, whether you're on the
TEDx platform or a lot of other platforms.
Is that confidence Knowing you look exactly how you want to look, you're coming across the way you
want to come across.
People ask me, TJ, don't you get nervous when you speak?
Are you nervous now when you're doing this video?
The answer is no, it's not because I think it's impossible for anyone else to do better.
But I do think it's impossible for me to do better because this is how I come across.
This is how I want to come across.
Ross.
Some of you might like it.
Some of you might not, but I'm not worried about.
Uh oh.
It's my left hand shaking.
Am I speaking too quickly?
Am I?
I'm not worried about any of that.
Because everything I'm saying to you right now, I've seen myself say the very same things in other
videos.
I've practiced for you.
I've rehearsed for you.
And that's why I'm not nervous.
And this is why you can go on to a TEDx platform and have a million people watching you and not be nervous
because you're not going to wonder about what to do.
You're not going to wonder if this works.
You're not going to wonder if it looks okay to walk over here or move your hands or do this.
You'll know exactly how you're coming across because you've seen it many, many times.
Now, great communicators, for that matter, great entertainers, great musicians will watch video
of their own concerts so they can figure out what works, how to get better if something didn't work,
how to make a tweak.
So there's nothing, nothing new or original about this.
The new element is it's just so cheap because so many cell phones have video capabilities and webcams
and tablets have cameras, so the technology makes it easier.
But this is what people, presidents of countries, CEOs of billion dollar companies.
This is what they've been doing for years with people like me.
Now it's available to absolutely everyone.
You may be an academic at the top of your field, but there's not a huge, huge budget for this sort
of training.
That's okay.
You can do it yourself.
Also, at some level of the TEDx application, they're going to want to see video of you.
Now you'll have something.
Don't just send them the very first video.
You do send them one that you're happy with and you're not going to be happy unless you practice many,
many times on video.
So some of you are just passively sitting back watching this course.
Maybe you're on a bus, that's fine.
But I can tell you right now, this whole course is a complete waste of your time and money, regardless
of whether you want to be a TEDx speaker or just be a better speaker in life, it's all a waste unless
you do this one tip, and that is keep practicing your speech on video and watching it until you like.
Do that and you'll be a great speaker whether you speak to Ted or not.
If you don't practice your speech on video, there's an excellent chance you will be mediocre in all
of your presentations for the rest of your life.
So please rehearse.

--- Great Writers Read Great Writers--Great Speakers Watch Great Speakers ---

If you ever talked to a lot of great writers, the one thing you'll find in common, they pretty much
all say this is that they like to read other great writings.
They read the classics.
They read other people they respect who are currently writing.
Doesn't matter if it's fiction, non-fiction.
People who pride themselves in their ability to craft words, to be a great writer, spend a lot of
their time reading and they read for pleasure.
They read for fun, and they read for work.
That's how they get better.
It's not because they're stealing ideas, but it's motivating them.
It's holding them to higher standards.
This idea here with a little twist or wrinkle can work in something they're writing.
It's an essential part of being a great writer.
Speaking is no different, But remember, the final output when you're speaking is not the text of your
speech for a history book.
The final product is you actually speaking, and that's why it's all well and good to read books about
speaking.
And I've read probably a thousand and I've written half a dozen.
But at some point you need to put the books aside and you need to spend some time on a regular basis
watching speakers.
Now, if you want to speak at Ted, I would certainly recommend that you watch a lot of Ted speakers.
There are thousands of them now.
You may find certain categories of science or maybe music that you're not interested in.
The beauty of Ted is it's organized by sections and a lot of different ways you can focus on just what
you're interested in.
But I would advise you go beyond your interests.
Sometimes you can learn even more about someone's speaking skills, their stagecraft techniques.
If you're not even as interested in their subject matter, you can actually focus on some of these other
things they're doing.
So I would advise you to do what I do is try to get a broad swath of speakers in your video viewing
diet the same way you may read New York Times or Wall Street Journal regularly.
Find some point in the week or even the day when you're watching videos of people speaking.
Now, you don't have to just rely on Ted.
There are a lot of great places for speaking videos, and YouTube has at this point hundreds of millions
of them.
The beauty of Ted, though, is they've done a great job of curating before anyone ever gets on video,
they've eliminated boring, awful speakers.
So that's why I like going to Ted and that I know I'm not going to be watching for 30s and have to think,
Oh, this is really boring, Awful.
The audio quality is awful.
This person's reading, I don't have to worry about that.
So that is the beauty of Ted.
But wherever you watch speakers, you may just want to watch stand up comedy on Netflix.
That's a type of speaking.
And good comedians are by definition, great public speakers, even though you might not think of it
that way.
I do recommend, if you want to be a Ted speaker and if just generally you want to get better and better
and better at speaking, you need to watch speakers.
You may find there's someone in particular you really like.
You can then follow them, follow their blog, find out every time they speak, then subscribe to their
YouTube channel so you can watch all of their speeches.
And this way you can develop stronger tastes.
Again, you're not out to mimic someone, but if you surround yourself by great speakers and you're
watching great speakers all the time, some of it just rubs off.
If you watch speaker after speaker after speaker move around looking at the audience, not staring at
notes and not using boring bullet point slides, it's going to be harder for you to just out of the
blue say, Oh, I got to give a speech, let me read a bunch of boring bullet points.
It's not going to occur to you because your standards will be elevated.
That's true.
That's why people like to read good writing.
It's also why good speakers like to watch good speakers.
So I would urge you find some place, put it on your calendar if you have to, or if you're used to
just watching sitcoms every Thursday night for two hours.
How about at least the first half an hour of that break?
Finding a good, entertaining speaker?

--- Apply to Speak at TED and Final Thoughts ---

So we come to the end of this course on how to be a TEDx speaker, how to speak like TEDx speakers.
I hope you've learned some tips if you're ready to take it to the next step.
Below in the description is how you apply.
Now take note.
They ask for other people to nominate you.
I don't really take kindly to someone who has to nominate themselves, but if you are a great speaker
and you have a great subject, a truly good idea that needs to spread and you're a good speaker, then
you could certainly ask people to nominate you.
There's nothing wrong with that.
However, I hope after our time together, you're seeing sort of the bigger picture.
The big picture is not about whether you speak at TEDx.
The big picture is about you speaking on a regular basis and more and more compelling ways reaching
broader audiences.
And if you follow these tips, ultimately it's not going to matter if you speak to TEDx or not, you're
going to be a better and better speaker.
You're going to be asked to speak at more places and you are going to reach more people through the
power of your voice.
The power of your ideas will get out there.
And that's ultimately what it's all about.
Your own good ideas can spread.
Good luck.

--- The Secret to Selling When Presenting ---

Sure Amazon can sell billions just by people clicking, but if you want to make the sale, especially
a big sale, you're going to have to speak to that prospect.
You're going to have to look him or her in the eye and explain the value proposition of your service,
of your product.
That's what sales presentations are for.
The biggest and best clients customers ultimately come in through sales presentations.
One real person you talking to other real people?
I'm going to teach you in this course how to give a great sales presentation every single time, how
to tailor it to the particular needs of your prospects.
And it's not going to matter whether you're having an on day, an off day, whether the projector works,
You'll still give a great sales presentation.
So let's hop right in.
Please keep in mind this course isn't going to help unless you practice your sales presentations on
video.
As I instruct you to do so throughout the course.
So get ready to record your sales presentations and to critique them.

--- Create Winning Sales Messages for Every Presentation ---

Now that you've determined exactly what your goal is, I want you to come up with a very specific list
of the top five reasons that you think will motivate this audience member to doing what you want.
Whether it's signing a contract today, whether it's recommending your firm for consideration for the
future, whether it's simply establishing a relationship so that over the next five years they become
a customer again.
Your goals can vary, but you need to know exactly what messages you think are going to drive that customer
to it.
It can't be.
Here's a list of 89 features of our software.
That's not going to be something a typical prospect is going to keep in their head when deciding to
make a purchase with you or to recommend you.
So I need you to really brainstorm on all the different things that could possibly motivate your prospect
into becoming a client, a customer doing what you want.
Put it in priority.
If you're not certain, ask your existing customers why they decided to go with you.
What did they like when they heard you give a sales presentation or another colleague give a sales presentation
last month or six months ago or five years ago?
That is your best source of information, not your gut, typically not your corporate marketing department.
Although I would certainly look at what they have.
Ask actual real customers who've gone with you in the past.
What motivated them?
Why did they decide to go with your company and put those messages right in front of you?
So I want you to write these down five messages, ten words or less for each one, not five gigantic
themes and 27 sub points and product characteristics, but five big ideas because that's what you're
going to spend your time on in this sales presentation.
So please do that right now.
Brainstorm.
You can come up with 50, 100, 300.
You can look at the PowerPoint deck that corporate has sent you and look at 10,000 ideas.
But I need you to have real clarity for when you're giving this sales presentation, and I need you
to write it down now.
Or you can write it on a screen, a piece of paper, your phone.
But I want you to have five, no more than five messages.
You want to communicate that you think if the person you're speaking to didn't remember anything else,
these five messages would make them take the actions you want.
Write it down now.

--- Mastering All Types of Presentations ---

Let's define some terms here.
There are a lot of different types of sales presentations.
There's sort of a first time stop by and say hello and chat for five minutes, one on one.
That would be one extreme.
The other extreme is, okay, we've had a nationwide search.
We put out an RFP to 100 ad agencies.
Yours is the one of the final three.
All three firms are being allowed to give a three hour presentation and it's for a $200 million advertising
budget.
That's a different type of a sales presentation.
There's a so called formal presentation, informal presentation, standing, giving a presentation to
80 prospects.
There's sitting around a conference table talking to three, and there's one on one.
Here's what I really need you to focus on regardless of the audience, regardless of the so called style
or situation, is this Are you being interesting to the people you're speaking to?
Are you giving them interesting, useful, memorable information?
That's what you need to think about.
Here's why this is significant.
A lot of salespeople are really good one on one, but let's put away the PowerPoint.
Let's just talk.
You're really good one on one.
But then the second, the situation seems to be more formal.
You're standing talking to 15 rather than sitting talking to 1 or 2.
That's when a lot of salespeople change themselves.
They change their sales presentation and unfortunately they often change it for the worse.
They make the sales presentation worse because they feel like I know it's a bit more formal.
I'm now giving a PowerPoint, so it's going to be more formal.
Well, there are a few guarantees in life, but here's one guarantee I will give you your audience.
Your prospects are never sitting back in their seat thinking, Boy, oh boy, I sure wish this guy or
this woman would be more formal today.
That's not what prospects are thinking.
The only thing they're thinking about is.
This is interesting.
Useful.
I'm going to pay attention.
Or boring.
They're not going to make the cut.
This isn't interesting.
Let me pretend to pay attention, but really let me check my email.
That's the only thing ever going on in the minds of your prospects when they are listening to you.
So great sales presenters realize that their whole mentality is on the audience and they're looking
at them.
That's why you can't be reading power.
I'm not anti PowerPoint, but you certainly can't be reading your PowerPoint or reading your script
or reading a computer screen.
You've got to be looking at people.
People don't buy from people who don't look them in the eye.
So you've got to be focused on your audience.
It doesn't matter if it's one, it doesn't matter if it's ten, 100 or 10,000.
You've got to be completely focused on that audience member, that prospect, that potential customer.
That's got to be your mindset.
Not I'm giving a PowerPoint speech today or a technical.
There's no such thing as a PowerPoint speech, a technical speech, or for that matter, a sales presentation.
The only thing that goes on in the audience's mind is it's either a good presentation or a bad presentation.
You've got to focus all your energies on making this prospect think this is a good presentation.
This person is giving me interesting, useful information, memorable, and I can act on it.
That's got to be your entire focus.

--- One on One Presentations Should Be the Easiest for You ---

The best type of sales presentation in the entire world is a one on one sales presentation.
The worst type of sales presentation in the entire world is also a one on one sales presentation.
It's the best because for most people they communicate the best.
You can be completely responsive.
You can be paying attention.
You can see, does this person get it?
You can ask them questions.
You can really have true engagement.
Now, the bad part about it is it's less efficient than speaking to all the decision makers, for example,
in a company or talking to a whole lot of prospects at once.
I'm not suggesting you turn down one on one presentations, but here's what I am suggesting.
When you're trying to figure out how to make better group sales presentations, large group sales presentations,
bigger ones don't have as your starting point PowerPoint slides with lots of bullet points.
And I'm not anti PowerPoint.
It's perfectly fine to use PowerPoint, but the greatest source of material for your group presentations,
your formal sales presentations in front of an entire board of directors or in front of 50 prospects.
The best source of material is what actually goes on in your one on one sales presentations.
So examples you give in a one on one sales presentation that work and the prospect says, Oh, I can
relate to that, or now I get it.
That's exactly what you want in your so called formal sales presentation stories that you give in a
one on one sales presentation are the same ones.
By and large, the ones you should use for your formal sales presentations.
If there's a particular slide in your PowerPoint and it's complex and people can't really have a conversation
with you one on one over lunch or the office looking at that slide, don't use that slide in the so
called formal sales presentation.
If you go through a particular part of your sales pitch and prospects one on one say, well, does that
mean and then they ask you a question and it's pretty consistent that they do that at that point.
You need to build that question into your sales presentation.
Don't wait for people to ask because sometimes people are afraid to interrupt you if there's 30 other
people in the room.
But if it's just one on one and their office or over lunch, they will ask you a question because it
seems like a conversation one on one.
Pitches are obviously the best type of presentation for most of us most of the time.
But if you learn the right lessons, if you apply what we're talking about in this course, every single
thing you do in that one on one conversation you can do in a group presentation, it just is a little
bit different.
You can't ask 50 people one on one and wait for their response for a particular question, but you can
throw out rhetorical questions and then say, and I was talking to your colleague Sandy right before
we started, and she mentioned to me, T.J., we've had that you can reference conversations with people
so that it still seems more like a conversation, that it seems more like an interaction, a consultation
almost, instead of the typical sales presentation, which is here's our product, here's our product,
here's a benefit, here's a feature, here's a feature, here's a feature, here's facts, here's numbers.
That's too top down.
It's too much of a data dump.
So really mine, the things you're doing well and your one on one sales presentations and make sure
you've put all that good stuff into the formal sales presentation because the problem most people have
is all the good stuff they have in the one on one presentations, they throw that away and then they
start gathering a whole bunch of text slides, PowerPoint, and they go through all the data and say,
Well, I'd love to get to the good stuff, the the stories, the examples, the case studies, but there's
no time.
I got all the data to go through.
Don't make that mistake.

--- Getting Your Prospects to Take Action ---

So what is your actual goal in giving this sales presentation?
I know it sounds like a simplistic question, but you need to step back for a minute and ask yourself
before you start giving the speech, before you even start preparing for the speech, because all too
often people say, oh, I've got a sales presentation and they just dive right into the big stack of
slides that corporate has sent them where they dust off the business plan.
You need to really step back and ask yourself, what is the goal?
Is your goal to get an order today?
Is it to get a contract through one hurdle and it could be another 12 hurdles, another 12 months before?
Is it to simply build a relationship with them so that two years from now they want to purchase from
you?
Ask yourself exactly what is the goal of this presentation?
I need you to write it down.
And once I know it sounds simplistic, but if you don't have your goal in mind, you're not going to
know how to get there.
Write it down in one sentence what the goal is of a very, very particular sales presentation that we're
going to be practicing with this one throughout the entire course.
So make sure it's something you can relate to and are going to be using in real life.

--- You Will Never Commit These 2 Common Blunders ---

Let's just cut to the chase.
What are the two top problems in the vast, vast majority of sales presentations and probably 99.9%
of failed sales presentations?
Well, the number one problem is that it's just a massive data dump.
It's feature feature, feature, feature, fact, fact, fact, fact number, lots and lots of data.
It's a massive data dump and the prospect is just sort of it's overwhelming.
The eyes glaze over too much of it sounds like what your competitors say and it's not memorable.
That's the number one problem in most sales presentations.
The second largest problem is a really awful PowerPoint slide that in a text way and a numbers way commits
the very same problem that the first problem was way too much data, way too many numbers, too many
facts, nothing particularly visual or interesting.
And again, I'm all in favor of PowerPoint and I'm going to give you tips on how to use PowerPoint effectively.
But those are the two big problems.
Too much of a big data dump, not enough case study stories, examples and really bad PowerPoint slides
that put everybody to sleep because it's too much data.
If you can simply avoid those two problems, you are going to be so far ahead of the pack it's not even
funny.
You're not even going to have to be great with everything else.
Although we want you to be great, you are going to stand out from your competitors.
So whatever you do, don't commit the two most common blunders of sales presentations.

--- Final Thoughts on Sales Presentations ---

Thanks for joining me on this journey.
I think if you followed the exercise, not if you've listened to me, frankly, listening to me doesn't
help.
But if you've actually followed the exercises and recorded yourself giving a sales presentation and
done it until you like it, well then congratulations.
You are now excellent at giving sales presentations.
If you've all if all you've done is watch this passively, sit back, take a few notes.
I hope it's at least given you some food for thought, but you probably aren't a great sales presenter
yet.
There's simply nothing like this is one of these skills.
It's more like riding a bicycle than learning advanced mathematics.
You have to actually do it.
It's not just something you can sit back in a desk and read and think about.
You have to do it.
So if you haven't done these exercises, I'm begging you one last time, go back, videotape yourself,
critique it, keep doing it till you love it.
If you've done all that, then congratulations.
You are ready to give a great sales presentation.
But remember, great sales presenters learn from every single sales presentation they ever give.
They're always looking for new reactions from the audience.
They're always looking for ways of doing something better.
Sometimes it's just that last question somebody asked and you gave a very specific example case study,
and you could see the customer's eyes light up.
That now gives you focus group research for something valuable.
You can put in your next speech, but don't wait for the Q&amp;A.
Put it right up in the first few minutes.
So great speakers don't just learn once and do great speeches forever.
It's constant, constant refinement, learning, improving and making it better.
Good luck with all your sales presentations in life.
I'm TJ Walker.

--- Your Message Can Move Millions ---

Motivational speaking is about talking to a crowd.
It could be a crowd of two.
It could be a crowd of 2000 200,000 and inspiring them through your words, through your own personal
story of how to do great things, how you've done great things, how you've accomplished things in life,
and how they can accomplish things in life.
That's what you have to be.
If you want to be a motivational speaker.
It's not simply about presenting facts, presenting data, PowerPoint slides, making a rational argument.
You have to have substance, but you have to have emotion fused together in a way that really makes
people understand you but feel you.
They have to connect with you, the head and the heart level.
That's what makes a great motivational speaker.
I'm going to walk you through step by step now the things you need to do to put together your own motivational
speech and to get the skill set you need in order to deliver it.

--- How to Make Sure You Have a Motivating Message ---

My first question for you is, are people genuinely motivated by you, people who know you, people
who work with you, family, friends?
Is there something about you that is inspiring?
Because it's very hard to just cook this up.
It's not simply a matter of writing something out, practicing performance skills.
There's got to be something there.
So the first thing I'm going to ask you to do is really examine your life, the things you've overcome.
What adversity have you made it through?
What about it that you've done is impressive to people?
Now, if you were born as one famous motivational speaker was to a one parent family labeled --
poor, and you went on to have success in politics and media.
Well, that's a very inspirational story.
How do you go from down here to way up here?
That's obviously inspirational.
And I'm talking about Les Brown.
On the other hand, what if you're born on Park Avenue?
Wealthy, wealthy parents went to all the finest schools, the greatest education, and you ended up
rich.
That's not very motivational to most people because they can't relate to that.
And they think, well, you already started life on third base.
But Michael Eisner, the former CEO of Disney, is in fact, a motivational speaker at conferences because
he didn't just go on to be an investment banker.
He took the Walt Disney Company and made it many, many times larger and innovated there.
So for people who care about the entertainment industry, he's a motivational speaker.
So my first thing I really want you to reflect on is what exactly is it about you that people find motivational?
It's harder and harder these days to simply go to other motivational speakers, read all the books,
cobble something together and put yourself out there.
It can be done, but it's much, much harder.
So that's my first question.
What about you?
To other people who know you already find motivating, write that down in a sentence or two.

--- Finding What Is So Special About You ---

Next question I have for you, and it's related to the last segment.
What's special about you?
What exactly is it about you that you think people should listen to?
Let's face it, most people in the world are pretty similar.
They don't want to hear a speech from someone who is exactly like they are, who is in the same station
in life.
So you've got to figure out what is special about you.
You've got to really isolate that.
Part of that is people have to understand how are you worse off than they were?
Now you look at some of the great motivational speakers.
They've gone on to great success after being in car crashes and don't have use of their limbs or they've
been burn victims and they've still gone on to lead happy, successful lives or they were labeled disabled,
mentally challenged.
And yes, back in the 70s, some of them were labeled with the R word.
How have you overcome something?
There is a structure in most motivational speeches.
Someone talks about how low they were, how bad they were, and how they overcame their challenge and
if they can do it and they're worse off than you are, how hard could it be for you?
That is the basic structure of most motivational speeches.
Now, let me define a motivational speech can be sort of the generic all things to all people.
And I don't mean this in any disrespectful way.
The Anthony Robbins style speeches, the Zig Ziglar before he passed away.
There can also be a very, very industry specific.
I mean, before Steve Jobs passed away when he was speaking, unveiling a new product.
Well, he was clearly a motivational speaker.
He was motivating people around the world to buy that iPad, to buy that iPhone.
So there are different types of motivational speakers.
You've got to determine exactly what it is, is your style.
Now, you can't be a Steve Jobs style motivational speaker unless you've created a software company
that's worth billions and everyone knows and respects.
Now, that's not quite true.
You can have success in your own community in a much smaller scale and tell the tale of how you succeeded.
But again, there needs to be some component there about struggle and how, at least temporarily, you
were a lot worse off than the average person in your audience.
It can't simply be.
Well, I graduated from Choate and then I was first in my class at Harvard, and then I was first in
my class at Harvard Business School.
And then I was hired by Goldman Sachs.
And then I retired at 40 with $200 million in my bank account.
Someone like that might have some interesting things to say that can motivate people in the finance
world, but probably isn't going to have that common touch to be a motivational speaker to speak to
thousands of people, students, people at large rallies.
So that's my challenge to you now.
What is it about you that really makes you special, whether or not your friends or family or colleagues
know it?
What is it you think makes you special?
And what was that actual struggle that's taking place that you overcame?
And then how specifically were you at some point in your life a lot worse off than the average person?
These are key elements in most motivational speeches.
So reflect on that.
Write your answers down to those questions now.

--- Years later, They Will Remember Your Story ---

Now we got to get to the meat of you being a motivational speaker.
And that is your story.
Because let's face it, most messages from motivational speakers are roughly the same.
The message is typically, Look at me.
I was way down here.
I had all this adversity.
I had all these things going against me.
But through hard work, determination, being lucky, smart, finding a good team, belief in God,
belief in atheism, whatever it is.
I was able to overcome that challenge and now I've become really successful.
And if I can do it with all this adversity around me, not having my arms being labeled mentally deficient,
having a reading disability, I could do it with all these things.
And those are common things.
Famous motivational speakers mentioned If I can overcome my challenges, it's got to be pretty easy
for you because you don't have those and hence the person in the audience feels, Wow, he's right.
If I just do this a little better, this, I can accomplish my dream.
That's I don't mean to sound condescending towards motivational speakers.
There's a need at certain conferences, conventions, moments in life for motivational speakers with
that message.
But when you say a motivational speaker in general, that's what people mean.
Someone who can do that and make people feel good about it.
And it's all about the context.
If you're the motivational speaker at an annual sales convention of software salespeople, then you're
being hired to motivate these people to sell ten times as much software as usual, not necessarily motivating
them to lose weight.
So what you've got to focus on now is what is your story?
I want to know what the problem was in your life.
How did you overcome it?
How did you feel about it?
Who were the other people?
Bring in some actual dialogue.
Describe the setting.
There are a lot of different types of motivational speakers in the world, but the one thing they all
have in common is they have their story.
And you've got to even Donald Trump.
Now, I mentioned in an earlier lecture, if you're just born rich and now you're rich, that's not
that motivational.
Donald Trump has motivational speeches.
He gives and he talks about how at one point earlier in his career, his net worth was -$1 billion and
how he came back.
So everybody faces some adversity in life.
You've got to figure out what is your story.
It's the fundamental building block of any motivational speech, because motivational speeches are not
primarily about lots and lots of concepts, lots of numbers, lots of new information.
You're trying to connect with people intellectually, but also emotionally, in fact, more emotionally
than intellectually.
And that's the power of the story.
I want to know exactly what your story was, because everybody has a story.
Every successful person has a story on how they got there.
I want to know exactly what yours is.

--- Your Process Goes Like This ---

Early in my career.
In the early 90s, I was going on a talk radio show in South Florida.
The host was well known.
We'll call him Mr. Stick.
So Mr. Stick is interviewing me.
We're talking about the politics of the day.
He's asking me a question about presidential politics.
I start to respond.
Next thing I know, he pulls the microphone out of my hand.
Mr. Walker, I have more respect for a Klansman than I do for you.
I hadn't said anything that I thought was particularly remarkable or worthy of his contempt.
And I also think of myself, Well, I'm a tough person.
And because I've been a media trainer for years already, I've been a talk show host.
So I'm pulling the microphone back.
I'm pulling it back.
Yeah, yeah.
But, Mr. Cain, what I really think before I could say anything else, this host reaches under the
table, pulls out a gun.
Now, do you see my point, Mr. Walker?
It's talk radio in South Florida.
Nobody can see the gun.
Nobody can see me.
So he's asked me this question.
Do you know what I said?
Not much of anything.
It was not one of my finest moments.
I guess at some point I finally said, Yeah, I see your point.
I was a stammering pool of jelly at that point.
It was intimidating.
It.
Was he going to use it?
I don't know.
But it was clearly an intimidating tactic.
But, you know, I got through the interview.
I did leave the station.
I even went back to that station two weeks later and guest hosted other talk shows.
Now, I stayed away from that.
Host.
I still think he's crazy, but I love speaking.
I love communicating.
I love going in the media and helping other people speak too.
So I didn't let it slow me down.
Here's the good news.
Every talk show I've ever done since, every media interview I've ever done since, it has been a piece
of cake.
So that's my story.
When I'm trying to motivate a group of communicators.
Because in the world of public relations, media training, I'm respected, I'm well known, so I'm
occasionally a motivational speaker to that audience.
So that's my story.
Happens to be a true story.
And there's a message to it, which is nobody's born being naturally articulate all the time.
Nobody's born knowing how to ace every media interview.
I've had horrible interviews, but I have overcome it to go on thousands of other talk shows and news
interviews and national TV, hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of times.
So if I can be that bad in an interview and overcome it, perhaps so can you.
But then I go through a process.
I have a very, very specific process that I go through to help people master media interviews, very
specific steps on how to look good on TV, how to frame messages, how to package messages with soundbites.
It's a process that can be duplicated by others.
It's lessons I learned the hard way but thought about it and then systematized it.
That's what the best motivational speakers do.
Now.
You may love him or hate him, but that's what Anthony Robbins does.
He gives people he doesn't just tell the stories.
He then gives people step by step processes that they can duplicate.
So that's my challenge to you.
What is it that you learned from your experiences that you can now systematize and make it easier for
people to follow in a step by step way so they don't have to learn the hard way?
As Warren Buffett, the great financial investor and manager, once said, Smart people don't learn
from their mistakes.
They learn from other people's mistakes.
You want your audience to learn from your mistakes so that they don't have to have the years of struggle,
the humiliating experiences.
They can be more successful faster.
So you've already come up with your story.
Now I want to know the process and if you need a page for this, take a page for this.
But I want you to write down a process.
It can't simply be work hard, get in earlier and stay later.
People have heard that a thousand times.
It has to be something that's unique, that's different, that strikes people as, Oh, I could do that,
but I've never thought of it quite that way.
So this is the hard part.
If you need an hour to do this, if you need a couple of days to do this, but if you try to rush this
part, you're not going to be a successful motivational speaker.
So write down that page now.

--- Bringing Clarity to Your Messages ---

Now you must really open yourself up to criticism.
It's time for you to take that video that your friends have critiqued.
And ideally you've made changes.
So you've continued to improve it and now you've got to post that video on YouTube.
Now, here's the thing about YouTube.
These people are not your friends.
I have more than 10,000 videos on YouTube and you get all sorts of comments.
You get some praise, some fans, some insightful comments, and you get a lot of nasty, vile hate.
And you have people at least I have people.
So your eyes are beady, your bald, you're ugly, you're stupid, you're a fool.
You're this.
You get a lot of nonsense.
You're going to have to weed through all that because you will get some insightful feedback and it will
toughen you up too.
And sometimes the criticism will be cheap and trashy.
Some times it will hurt, but there will be a valid, valid point embedded in the nastiness.
You have to look at it all.
So that's your next step.
If you don't have a YouTube channel, make it now.
It costs nothing.
Upload your video that you're proud of because you've incorporated the changes that you thought needed
to be made and your friends, family, colleagues suggested you have a video of yourself speaking.
It's okay that it's just you in a room.
Nothing wrong with that and put it out to the world.
That's your next step.

--- Master Storytelling ---

Now, in a previous lecture in homework assignment, you came up with your story, your number one signature
story, but you now have five ideas, which means you need five stories.
You need one story for each message point.
Because here's something all great motivational leaders understand.
Audiences do not remember messages, ideas, facts, numbers unless it's packaged with a story.
Now, not every story has to be as dramatic as someone pointing a gun at you or being near death or
losing your legs.
It just has to be interesting and talk about a struggle you had and how you overcame it.
So this may take a while, but again, if you don't have this, you're not going to have a speech.
I need you to come up with a story for each one of your five message points.
Each story needs to involve a character you ideally, although it could involve another party, but
it needs to involve ideally a conversation you have with one other real person dialogue.
What you said back and forth, where you were, what the problem was, what the conflict was, how it
was resolved, how you felt about it, and the lesson from that.
So that's what I need you to do, write these stories down.
Don't worry about memorizing it, but at least write down enough words so that you cover all those categories.
This is absolutely essential.
Do not skip this and go to the next lecture.
Come up with your story.
If you simply don't have stories, then you got to ask yourself, Is that message really important?
If you only know this message at a conceptual level, like what anyone could find in a textbook, no
one needs to hear you talk about it.
So dig deep.
Look for these stories.

--- Stagecraft ---

If you've done what I've asked so far, you should have five messages.
You should have stories for each one.
You should have one signature story that really spells out your biggest point.
And you should have a sense of how you can help people, what the process is that you've done to help
you overcome challenges and how other people can do it too.
You should have all that.
Well, now it's time to give the speech.
Now stagecraft, meaning how you look, move sound on the stage, even if you're just in a small room
at the same level of people is insanely important for a motivational speaker.
Now, the reason for this is that so many motivational speeches have essentially the same message,
and that is I had a challenge.
I had problems, I overcame it through X, Y, and Z, working hard, surrounding myself with best people,
being disciplined.
So can you.
The message is so similar in many motivational speeches.
It's the stagecraft that will differentiate you.
So it's not enough to be competent.
It's not enough to have your jacket buttoned and go through PowerPoint slides professionally.
No, no, no.
You've got to be compelling.
You've got to be interesting.
You've got to be dynamic.
How do you do that?
Well, let's start out slow.
Simply give your speech, videotape it and take a look and see what you think.
Because if you're just standing there or if you're grabbing a lectern or you're reading notes or you're
reading bullet points off of a PowerPoint, it ain't going to work.
By the way, if you're thinking of using PowerPoint, fine.
You better not be reading text off of your PowerPoint.
You have to be focused on your audience.
You've got to be looking at your audience at all times, or at least 98% of the time.
And you need movement, not pacing, not fidgeting, but you need to move around the stage and appear
to be supremely comfortable, confident, relaxed.
I'll give you more tips on your stagecraft, but for now, I want you to give a speech and it can be
just in your own room, your bedroom, your office, and it can be just putting your cell phone on the
wall, capturing it, or a friend doing it.
But I want us to do this first draft together, and I want you to watch how you look and how you sound
and grade yourself.
And after you've done that, watch it again without the audio on and tell me what you think.

--- YouTube Role Models ---

If you want to be a great motivational speaker.
The good news is you have fantastic role models all over the world, but they're right in front of you.
They're at your fingertips.
All you have to do is type names in on YouTube and you can see great motivational speakers doing what
they do best speaking.
So that's your homework here.
Go to YouTube, type in motivational speakers.
If you have those you already like, type them in and look at them and look at a whole range.
Look at the Anthony Robbins, the Zig Ziegler's look at left wing ones, right wing ones, non-religious
ones.
Joel Osteen is a fantastic speaker, whether you agree with his message or not.
So I would urge you really study the craft of what they do.
Look at how they frame their arguments, their stories, more important than arguments, their emotion
and study how they pause the best speakers in the world typically pause the most.
That doesn't mean you can just come out, say nothing for five minutes and walk off.
But I want you to look at every single thing about how they come across.
Look at the ones you like the most, and then watch that video maybe 5 or 6 times you'll learn something
new each time when you're not listening to the words as carefully, look at how they use the whole stage.
I saw Zig Ziglar a few years before he passed away on a stage in front of 15,000 people at a huge arena
in New Jersey, and he was a master at the stage.
He used every inch of the stage of his height.
There was just constant variation in how he looked, how he moved and how he sounded.
You can learn from that even if you think the message was full of baloney.
So that's your homework.
Spend some time on YouTube, seek out the best.
Seek out people you don't think are the best.
And you know what?
Learn from the worst, too.
I urge you type in Chris Farley Saturday Night Live impersonation of motivational speaker and you'll
see something hilarious.
And it's really mocking sort of the worst aspects of motivational speakers.
So that's your homework right now.
Find some speakers, cross range, and then come up with 2 or 3 who who are your absolute favorite and
try to watch every speech they've given.

--- Video Rehearse ---

You've studied the masters, you've learned from your idols on YouTube, you've thought of your messages,
you've come up with stories.
It's now time to practice in much greater detail.
I want you to, first of all, make it simple for yourself.
Give yourself a single one page outline by making it one page having large font, you're not going to
have to turn pages.
You're not going to have to stop, put on glasses and do that.
You can simply have it on a table next to a glass of water.
You can even have some on the floor.
When you're on an elevated stage, no one will know you're using notes.
I want you to video record yourself, and if you have to just turn your webcam on and walk ten feet
away.
Worst case scenario, just turn your cell phone on, lean it up against a bookcase, have it on you.
You've just got to be able to see yourself.
But I need you to video record your entire speech and then watch it.
And I know some of you don't want to do that.
I got to tell you, there's no great motivational speaker in the world who hasn't watched himself or
herself a thousand times.
You've got to really know exactly what you're doing in order to refine it, to make it better and better
and better.
So watch the video, record the video, watch it and make a very, very specific list.
Here's everything you like.
Here's everything you don't like.
Do that now.

--- Video Refine ---

You've spoken, you've video, recorded it, you've watched it, you've critiqued it.
Now what?
Well, look at that list of stuff you like in your speech.
Stuff you don't like.
Do the speech again on video this time try to do more of the stuff you like and less of the stuff you
don't like.
And here's the key.
I need you to keep doing this until the likes are way up here and the dislikes are way down here.
Some of you, you may be able to do it in one take, others it may take 50 takes.
If you want to be a serious motivational speaker, it doesn't matter how many times it takes.
It might be a thousand takes.
Keep practicing on video until you can look at that video and say, wow, that's a good speaker.
If that weren't me, I would listen to that speaker.
If I can be half as good as that person, I'm going to be the star of the motivational speaking circuit.
I need you to do that now.
Don't rush through this, folks.
If you're just sort of going through this course and watching videos from me, it's a waste of time.
You should be out playing outside.
Go for a bike ride.
It would be a better use of your time.
This only helps you if you actually do the exercises.
So again, speak.
Capture it on video.
Figure out what you like, what you don't like.
Keep doing it until you love what you.

--- Show to Others ---

You've got a video, you're proud of it.
You did it again and again and again.
You think it's great.
Now let's take it to the next level.
I want you to take that video and send it to your friends.
People you trust, people you respect, People who believe in you, like you, but can give you some
honest feedback and you respect their integrity enough that you think they'll give you honest, straight
feedback.
So take that video, email it to them, ask them what do they like?
What do they not like?
What do they remember and how do they think you can improve this speech?
So do that right now.

--- Put video on YouTube and Facebook ---

Now it's time to organize your message in a more systematic way.
I've tested audiences all over the world and asked them, Who's the best speaker you've seen in the
last year?
The last five years.
Now, how many separate, distinct messages do you remember from that speaker?
And this includes motivational speakers.
It includes business gurus, trainings, all types of speakers.
And in the many, many years I've asked that question thousands of times.
People often say, well, I don't remember anything.
Remember the person's style.
They were funny.
Or sometimes one point, occasionally two, sometimes three.
Every once in a while someone will remember for ideas.
And once every six months I'll find somebody who remembers five key ideas from the best speaker they've
seen in their life.
I've never actually encountered anyone who remembered more than five ideas, so I'm a big believer.
It's kind of a waste of time to try to convey more than five ideas in a motivational speech or any other
speech.
Yeah, you can convey a lot more in your book, but not in your speech.
So that's what I want you to do right now.
You've got tons and tons of great ideas and all sorts of things you did to be successful.
I need you to put them in priority.
Write down on a piece of paper or a computer screen, every single idea you would want to communicate
with an audience, then put them in priority and then narrow it down to just five ideas.

--- Tell the World ---

You've posted your video on YouTube.
You're starting to get feedback.
Read it all, no matter how much it hurts.
But now we've got to go to the next step.
Now you've got to put yourself out to the whole world even more.
You've got to announce to the world that you're a motivational speaker and that you are happy to speak
at your events and your conferences and your meetings.
So you need to start telling friends, family, people on Facebook, on LinkedIn, on Twitter, every
single social media outlet that you're in, you need to let people know you are a speaker and that you
are available for hire.
They can reach you.
Here's a video of you on YouTube.
One quick word, though.
You might not want to use the word motivational speaker.
Many of the most popular motivational speakers in the world don't go by that phrase motivational speaking
because they consider it somewhat downgraded and they think of the Chris Farley stereotype caricature.
So some people call them peak performance experts.
Some people are entrepreneurial experts, some people are high tech experts.
You can motivate in any single field.
You've got to determine how you want to position yourself.
The point is, let the world know.
Let your whole contact base know that you are available and they can reach out to you.
They can hire you when you're just beginning.
You should be happy to speak for free.
And these days you can do it through Skype video without having to go anywhere.
So go ahead, do that.
Now announce to the world you are a speaker.

--- Speaker Bureaus ---

You've got a speech, you've told the world you're a speaker.
Now all you have to do is sit back and wait for the phone to ring from those speaker bureaus.
Right.
Sorry.
It's not that easy.
In fact, speaker bureaus are not going to call you unless you're already famous from something else
if you're a retiring NBA star.
Sure.
Speaker bureaus will call, but if you're not a household name speaker, bureaus will not call you.
Well, that's okay.
I'll just call that No.
At this stage of your career, it is a complete, utter waste of time to reach out to speaker bureaus.
They will be interested in you after you have a very solid track record of speaking for substantial
fees, at least $5,000 per speech for several years.
And there's a proven track record.
Then and only then will speaker bureaus be interested in you.
So don't waste your time chasing the elusive Speaker Bureau.
They are not the answers to your questions.
These days, people look for speakers all over the place and your own contacts on Twitter, Facebook,
on YouTube.
People who know you, people who read your blog.
Those are the people.
If you're putting out the right message, who are likely to engage you as a professional speaker.
So for now, just put aside the whole speaker bureau at some point.
They may be an important part of what you do, but you need to have a real track record.
Give a whole lot of speeches, make a bunch of money before the economics make sense for speaker bureaus.

--- Conclusion to Motivational Speaking Section ---

Thanks for joining me in this course on how to be a motivational speaker.
I hope you've learned some things and it's given you a direction that you can follow if you want to
pursue your dream of being a motivational speaker.
But please keep in mind every speaker is a motivational speaker at some level, every CEO, every politician,
every nonprofit leader, every civic leader is trying to motivate people to do something.
So no matter what you end up doing with your life, if you're a full time motivational speaker on the
stage in front of 10,000 people or you're a community activist or you're an entrepreneur who just talks
to clients, great speaking is always motivational, and any skills you've learned here are going to
help you in every aspect of your life and your career.
Good luck.

--- The Real Reason Why You Hate Public Speaking-And What You Can Do About It-Now ---

If you hate public speaking, it just means you're normal.
Most people can't stand public speaking, so don't worry about it.
But you should learn how to give an okay presentation.
You should learn how to get through it.
Because let's face it, there are so many opportunities in life, in business, in political life,
cultural life, your own career, your own life opportunities you're going to lose out on if you can't
give a basic speech now, I'm going to teach you if you follow these steps one at a time.
The simplest, fastest way to get through this speech least muss, least fuss.
So pay attention and hop in.

--- You Will Accomplish Your Public Speaking Goals ---

That's it.
It wasn't that hard.
Again, to recap, all you have to do is ask yourself, What's my goal from this presentation?
Again, I'm not trying to win a standing ovation.
I'm not trying to go on the speaking circuit.
But what is my goal?
Do I want this customer to make this purchase?
Do I want an approval for this budget?
What's the goal?
Brainstorm on your messages.
Narrow it down to the top five.
Have an example for each one.
If you use PowerPoint, throw a whole lot of text that you email or hand out to people, but only project
one image per slide.
And then finally, with a cheat sheet, practice your speech on video to the point where you like it.
Do that and you are ready.
Now, by the way, these are the same techniques people can use to be great speakers, but I hope I've
given you the simplest, fastest, easiest way to do it.
And you can get through this speech.
Now, if you always hate public speaking, that's fine.
But one of the things you'll find is if you do a good job, you're actually going to get more positive
feedback and you'll start to enjoy public speaking.
I'm TJ Walker.
Thanks for joining me.

--- It's Not About You; It's About Your Message ---

Now we have to figure out what to say in this speech.
You're going to give.
We can do this the hard way or we can do this the easy way.
I'm going to assume you want to do it the easy way.
The hard way.
Which is what most people do and why most people hate public speaking is they try to gather every single
fact in the entire world that they could say on this subject.
So if they're giving a quarterly report on how their division did, they're trying to gather every single
sales store data, everything that's happened, every blip, every fact.
And they're cramming it all in this PowerPoint.
They want to speak quick.
That's hard work.
You want it the easy way and I'm going to give it to you.
Here's what I need you to do.
Brainstorm on every message you could possibly say on this subject.
Narrow it down to the top five.
Why five?
It's because I actually test audiences all over the world.
I've never found an audience to remember more than five key ideas from the best speaker in the world.
You only want to get to be average or a little above mediocre.
The best speakers in the world only communicate five ideas.
So let's narrow it down.
The big mistake, of course, most people try to communicate 5100 ideas.
They communicate nothing.
So let's just cut right to the chase.
Focus on your five ideas.
Write those down one sentence for each 110 words or less.
Write it down.
Let's make it simple, folks.
This is not the time for an 80 page PowerPoint.
Five points, ten words or less.

--- You Can Breath Life Into Your Speech By Doing This ---

You've got your five points.
Now we have to flesh it out because you can't just stand up, give five points in 10s and sit down.
That's not really a speech or a presentation.
So what are we going to do?
You need to flesh out each one of these message points with an example.
Now, it doesn't have to be this emotional, exciting story where you're walking around the room and
crying.
I'm not asking you to do that.
I just want a specific example of each one of the points.
So if sales are down 2% and everything was flat except for one particular product freezers and you just
couldn't sell them because it was minus five degrees out.
Tell the story about why freezer sales went down.
Give the example of the specific product that went down so people can understand it.
Here's the funny thing about people.
It doesn't matter how smart they are or how many PhDs they have, how capable they are of abstract thought.
When people are listening to you present, they might understand your abstract concepts, but they don't
visualize it, therefore they don't remember it.
People need a specific example to visualize it in their mind so they remember your presentation.
Now, keep in mind we do want people to remember our messages.
We don't necessarily want people running up to us afterwards saying, My God, you got to quit your
job and become a professional motivational speaker.
That's not what this is about.
I'm not trying to pressure you into that, but I do want you to focus on the goal.
You want people to take the actions you want, which is give you a promotion, a promotion, approve
a budget, not eliminate your division.
Any time you speak, you are trying to get people to do something.
They need to know what your message was.
They need to remember it in order for that to happen.
And that's why it's critically important for you to have an example fleshing out each one of your points.
If you can't think of an example probably isn't an important point.
Just get rid of the point.

--- Your PowerPoint Will Educate, Not Bore ---

PowerPoint I know you don't want to do with PowerPoint.
PowerPoint is so boring.
It's so awful.
But what do you do if all the other colleagues in your office or your organization are using PowerPoint
and you feel pressure to use PowerPoint?
Well, I'm going to give you some tips to make this easy painless so you can just get through it.
Okay.
Again, there's the hard way.
The easy way.
The hard way is to do it.
Most people do gather lots and lots and lots of data, rearrange all the bullet points on a PowerPoint
program, change the font mess.
Next thing you know, you spent 30 hours on it and it's this god awful stew.
And if you sat there and read it, your eyes would glaze over and everyone would fall asleep.
I don't want to do that to you because, again, we're just trying to be above average.
But if we do that, we're going to be right at average or below average.
We want to get through this and still accomplish our goals.
So here's what I would recommend.
Let's go back to your outline.
You have five points.
You have five sentences.
You've got an example for each one.
I want you to come up with some visual that makes the point.
So if you're talking about sales or down at all, it's because freezers didn't sell have a picture of
just that freezer and then maybe outside snow so people realize it was too cold to buy the freezers
in the winter quarter.
And you can do this by just go to Google, type in the word hit images, and then pick one that's rights
free where it's okay for you to use it, not violate copyright and stick that in your PowerPoint.
You're good to go project that.
So if you have five ideas that would mean five slides.
Now you're probably thinking, well, if I do that, people are going to complain that I was frivolous.
I didn't have all my substance behind me.
So here's what you do to avoid criticism.
All that data you would normally put in the PowerPoint and project, gather the data, put it in either
a word document or a PDF, it doesn't matter and hand it to people or pass it out.
Do that and you'll be in good shape.
Do that right now.

--- Use the Ethical Public Speaking Cheat Sheet ---

Here's my next tip for you.
I want you to cheat.
That's right.
I'm not suggesting anything unethical, but I do want you to have on a single sheet of paper your notes
and just put it in big, bold font so you can read it without having to put your.
Glasses on and fumbling with papers.
You want your notes on a single sheet of paper and you want it in large font.
Now, if you say, Well, TJ, it doesn't fit, I'm going to need five pages.
What that tells me is you failed at the earlier exercises of narrowing your message down to five key
points.
You cannot educate someone on every aspect of your new business or what your division has done in the
last quarter and a standard speech or presentation.
Don't try to.
So you've got to be able to condense it to a single sheet, preferably something that'll fit on a half
sheet and then have it on a desk, a lectern, a table, and your hands can be free.
Now, again, I'm not asking you to walking around and gesturing and all that.
It's fine to stay behind a lectern.
We just want to get through this presentation.
But it's so much easier to be looking at people and that way if we do mess up or screw up, they're
going to perceive you as confident and relaxed because you were looking at them and you weren't bear
burying your face and notes and that sort of thing.
So I want you to have a cheat sheet.
Large font and you should have your five key points, the example for each point.
And if you're going to use PowerPoint, put a reminder on that cheat sheet so you know exactly what
it is.
So you're not having to use your PowerPoint as your notes.
Okay.
Come up with your cheat sheet right now.

--- You Aren't going to Like This, But It Is What Matters Most - Video Practice ---

There's only one step left in this course, and I'm going to try to make it as brief and painless as
possible so we can get through this speech together.
But I'm going to warn you right now, you're not going to like what I'm going to ask you to do.
But of all the tips in this course, it is far and away the most important thing.
And it's also really, really easy to do.
It doesn't require any skill.
You just have to make the decision to do it.
And here's what it is.
I want you to get your notes, give your presentation, pull out your cell phone and record yourself
speaking or use your webcam.
I know, I know.
I know.
You don't want to look at yourself.
You don't want to hear your voice Tough.
Everyone in your audience has to look.
I get so I don't want to look at myself.
I don't like my hairline or I don't like my beady eyes.
Well, you have to see my hairline and my beady eye, so I might as well see it.
I'm not making it harder for anyone else to see my flaws just because I don't look at a video.
So this is far and away the most important thing to do.
You need to practice on video and you need to watch it.
You need to know exactly how you're coming across.
If you can watch it once and you think, okay, that's all right, I'm going to give myself a C plus.
I'm better than average, I'm fine.
Good to go.
Boom.
You've got the confidence you need.
You're ready.
You don't have to do any more work.
Go watch TV now.
Okay.
But if you look at the video and you think, wow, this person just isn't making sense or I can't hear
this person or there's something really missing, then it's time to go back to your notes, change things,
add something, refine it.
So again, this isn't about you winning the World Toastmasters championship for best speaker in the
world.
This is just about us getting through.
But you are a good judge of speakers.
You've been watching speakers your entire life in business, in school, educators, teachers, religious
leaders.
We've all seen thousands and thousands of speakers.
So you're a pretty good judge of speakers.
So you've got to video record.
Looking in a mirror doesn't work.
It's frankly a waste of time.
You look in a mirror and you're going to say, Gosh, is my nose crooked or am I getting another wrinkle?
Complete waste of time talking in front of people and visualizing them naked.
Complete waste of time.
Depending on your audience.
That's either too exciting or too disgusting.
Don't do it.
Instead, I want you to practice.
But you've got to know you don't want to, but you'll learn a lot.
You might be surprised.
It might be a lot better than you thought, which will in turn give you confidence and make this whole
process a lot easier.
Or it may show some flaws and it's a whole lot better to make a screw up when no one's around and you
can correct it rather than doing something awful in front of the live audience.
So that is your homework right now.
Don't click out of this and go to the next lesson.
I need you.
If you do nothing else for this course, do this one thing.
Practice your presentation on video and watch it and do it again until you like it.

--- Concluding Thoughts for People Who Hate Public Speaking ---

First, a little perspective.
You may think you're awful at public speaking.
You hate public speaking.
Fine.
But realize most other people do, too.
And because of that, most people are awful speakers, so it doesn't take much to really stand out.
Is okay.
Better than average.
Quite acceptable.
So you've got to tell yourself, remind yourself that and it takes some of the stress off.
If this were golf.
It's not about hitting par or breaking 100.
It's more like, can you break 200?
If it's ice skating, it's not about can you do perfect pirouettes and spin around and triple axel spins?
It's about can you sort of crawl around the side of the ice skating rink without falling down and breaking
any bones?
That's really what we're trying to accomplish here when it comes to speaking.
So here's the first assignment I need you to write down in one sentence.
What is the goal of your presentation?
For every presentation you give, you've got to have a clear cut set goal.
Don't have to be fancy, doesn't have to be flowery, doesn't have to be memorable.
Just in one sentence.
What is it you want this audience to do?

--- Become the Speaker That Audiences Look at In Awe ---

So why would anyone even want to be able to speak without notes?
Why do you want to be able to speak without notes?
I think it's because when we think of the best speakers we've ever seen in our lives, they seem to
be just sharing with us.
They're just talking to us.
They're having a conversation with us.
They aren't reading notes like this as if they were reading the phone book.
They're not ignoring us.
They don't seem like robots just going through the motion.
That's the problem with reading a script.
It could be a well written speech, but if your head is down and you're speaking in the same tone,
the same volume, the same speed, or even if you're using a teleprompter and everything is just right,
there's something mechanical about it.
And public speaking is one of these things where it's an intimate I don't mean your clothes come off,
but it's an intimate act.
It's a personal act.
You're there in the room with someone.
You can see the speaker.
The speaker can see you.
And that's why things like staring at notes or staring at a script or getting behind the lectern and
looking at the notes the whole time, it just destroys the intimacy of it.
When you see a speaker who seems to be looking right at you, talking to you, seeing if you get it,
asking you a question, it dramatically changes the whole relationship between the audience member and
the speaker.
It's much more powerful.
And that's why I believe it's a great idea for you to aspire to be speaking without notes, or at least
to be seen as speaking without notes.
But let's step back for a minute.
Why do people want to use notes or a script when they're giving a speech?
Because I'm scared.
I'm nervous.
I'll forget what to say if I don't have my crutch here, if I don't have my notes to read the whole
time, I'll not know what to say or I better have my PowerPoint slide.
That way I can relax and not have to worry about forgetting anything or leaving anything out.
I can just go through all the bullet points.
That's the logic people use and it's fundamentally flawed logic.
It's virtually impossible to develop a reputation of being a great speaker, a commanding speaker,
if you're always reading notes.
Yes, there are exceptions and there are certain presidents who have refined the act of reading a teleprompter
so well, they still really connect with people.
But for most people in business, in government and academia, we don't have a teleprompter at our disposal
all the time.
It's either we speak to people directly or we have a combination of script and notes and our head is
buried.
That's the choice.
Well, I'm here to tell you there is something in between, and it's a way of speaking to an audience
where you appear not to be using notes, but it's not going to involve a teleprompter or it's not going
to involve an app on your cell phone with a little teleprompter app like that, because that would be
so annoying to people and that's the only thing they would talk about.
Now, there are certainly techniques you can use to trigger your memory of, okay, here's the first
concept I have, and it's like a Christmas tree ornament.
I'm walking into my house and here's the Christmas tree.
There's all sorts of word associations to help you memorize it.
If you can do that, great.
You don't need to be in this course.
I've always found those memory techniques to be really difficult.
Extraordinarily disciplined is what?
That's the approach you need if you're going to do the whole memorization thing.
I think that's hard.
I'm going to give you an easy, easy solution to how to appear to be speaking without notes.
But before we do that, I want you to think of a topic that you're going to give a speech on.
Think of the topic, and start brainstorming on ideas you want to convey on this topic.
And then we're going to hop right in and I'll share with you the magic.

--- Give Your Memory a Break With This Tip - Focus on 5 Points ---

Before we talk about the solution of how to speak without notes, we got to talk about the problem,
what's causing this problem in the first place of people feeling the need to have everything written
out in a script or PowerPoint.
But you know what?
If you're absolutely just dying to find out what the solution is, fast forward or just skip to the
next lecture I am telling you there.
But before we do that, I want to delve into the problem before we go to the solution.
The problem for most speakers is they feel they need this crutch of the whole written speech or six
pages of outline notes or bullet point after bullet point on a PowerPoint because they have a fundamental
bad idea, fundamentally warped idea of what a speech is.
They think the speech is an opportunity to tell some audience everything they know about the subject,
and they end up giving a massive data dump.
That's not how the brain processes information or remembers information.
So because of that, people spend all this time gathering, gathering, gathering lots of facts, lots
of numbers, lots of data points, cramming it into a PowerPoint slide or a written speech, that is
not at all how human beings speak.
Therefore, the speaker has to like have their head down or turning their back to you and looking at
the PowerPoint slide.
So that's what causes the destruction of eye contact with the audience as we've gone into this with
a fundamentally misguided notion of what a speech, what a presentation is.
I'll tell you what a presentation is.
It's an opportunity to put a spotlight on a few ideas and get people in an audience to understand the
ideas, remember the ideas to possibly act on them.
And when I say a few ideas, I mean a few.
I've been coaching CEOs, political leaders, executives all over the world for 30 years, large groups,
small groups giving speeches on the subject.
First thing I ask every audience I work with is tell me about the best speaker you've seen in the last
year or the last five years.
Now tell me every message point you remember from that speaker.
Sometimes people don't remember anything.
Sometimes they'll say, Well, I remember this one point.
The speaker had passion.
And then he went on to really explain every aspect.
And they give me the point.
Sometimes it's two, occasionally three.
Every so often somebody will remember four points, and once every six months someone will remember
five key ideas from the best speaker they've seen in the last year, perhaps the last ten years and
all the years I've asked that question, I've never had anyone remember more than five ideas.
And yet what do 99% of the speakers I see professional speakers, people in senior jobs and major corporations.
What do they do when they come up to practice their speech with me?
They have a speech, often a PowerPoint.
The first slide, there's 18 bullet points.
The next slide, there's four columns.
The next slide there is a chart with a graph with eight different colour coded squiggly lines.
And I always say the same thing.
Well, Jane, you're telling me the best speaker you've seen in your entire life.
You remember three points and now your presentation has roughly 189 points.
Do you see the disconnect here?
You have a TJ This audience is different and our corporate culture.
Jane, I don't mean any disrespect to you or anyone else here, but I don't care about your corporate
culture.
The only culture I care about is the culture of your audience of what actually works.
And that's my challenge to you, to regardless of how you speak, you've got to look at the audience,
what they need and what they want and what actually works for them.
I don't have any evidence whatsoever that getting up and presenting fact after fact after fact, bullet
point after bullet point after bullet point, number after number actually works.
And by work, I mean the audience hears it, understands it and remembers it.
Now you can doubt me, but that's fine.
Test your audience next time.
See what they remember.
If they can't remember your fact, your bullet point, it didn't work.
So before I give you the big, big solution, we've got to come up with a better structure of our speech.
What I have found is the absolute best structure for 99.9% of the speakers out there in the world is
brainstorming all the things you want to say on this topic.
Narrow it down to five.
Not five big themes and 27 sub points or even three sub points, but five big ideas.
And then you need to come up with a story, a case study for each one.
If you can't think of a single story or case study to flesh out your major point must not be too major.
Get rid of the point.
Abstraction is the enemy of your audience.
If you can't flesh out your concept with visuals, with examples, with case studies, with stories
involving conversations with real people, your audience is not going to remember it.
So that's why it's crucial for you to end up with a simple outline five message points, a story or
two for each message point.
And if there's a number or two, let's put that number on the outline.
Now I will teach.
I have to go through every single number.
Are you certain you do?
If you're going through quarterly results and people really want to know what every single store sold
every week for the last quarter and you have 2723 stores in the entire world, give that as a handout
in advance of the priest, email it to people, have it ready to talk about if someone asks a question.
But you do not have to go through all 2000 plus stores.
So that's the next assignment for you.
Right now I need you to come up with a streamlined outline so you can either look at us.
Previous speech that you wrote and condense it or come up with a new one, But I need you to come up
with a speech that has five message points, and a message point should be ten words or less.
Ideally like 3 or 4 words, something that just gives you a sense of what the topic is.
And then an example, a story or two or even three stories to flesh out that idea, something that gives
you a roadmap for the speech.
And then I'll tell you what to do with this.
And it doesn't involve a magical earpiece.
And as much as I love technology and every kind of iPad and iPhone, it's not going to involve an app
or technology or a cell phone.
It's not going to involve a teleprompter.
I'll show you what it involves in just a moment.
But first, I need you to come up with that outline.
Do it now.

--- You Can Use a cheat Sheet, Ethically! ---

So are you ready for the big magic?
A drum roll, please.
Here's the secret to speaking without notes, or at least appearing to be speaking without notes.
It's to have notes, but it's to have Hold on before you ask for your money back.
It's to have notes in a very specific way.
This is an hour speech that I recently gave in Mexico City.
It's got five big points and it's got a few words to remind you of, stories and examples to remind
me of stories and examples for each one.
Now, this is I mean, here's a normal sheet of paper.
So this is about half the size of the piece of paper.
Here's why I'm able to use this and appear as though I'm not using notes.
It's on a single sheet of paper so no one ever sees me picking it up and turning the pages.
So that's one way I'm able to trick people.
The second step I made much larger font and you can see it's large font.
I don't have to put my glasses on.
If it's normal font on a piece of paper, I have to sort of stop and do this.
So we've all seen people do that when they're giving speeches, but because I took two seconds to make
the font larger, I don't have to put on my glasses.
So that's a part of it.
Now, my first message point is, number one problem boring.
I'm talking I'm giving a speech about public speaking.
So that's only three words, really.
Well, there's symbols.
I guess you could claim that's four, but very few words.
So I'm not tempted to sort of start the speech with.
Well, the number one problem people have is being boring.
I can simply glance at it.
It reminds me of what I want to say and I can now talk to people.
So that's the key is you've got to streamline it.
Very few words so that it keeps you on track.
And then I've got stories underneath.
I just put Prime Minister of Slovenia because that reminds me of the story I'm going to tell about the
time I was training the prime minister of Slovenia and he videotaped him.
So we videotaped him together.
I asked him to tell me what he thought after watching his speech and he said, I'm really boring.
I wouldn't want to watch me.
And I said, You're right, Mr. Prime Minister.
And it went on to be an eye opening moment for him to tear up his speech and start over the very same
as I'm doing with you.
So I only need a few words there to remind me of stories.
You have stories in you too.
I don't care if you sell boring widgets.
At some point you're going to talk to a widget customer about how the old widget didn't work as well
and the problem you had and how it was solved.
So the beauty of a single sheet of paper is you're not touching it.
You make the large font and you don't have to pick it up.
The other thing that requires practice is you need to get comfortable with this so that you can walk
around and sort of know when you're finishing and then glance at it and look up.
Because if you're finishing one thing and then it's it's too quick, it's too jerky, it's calling attention
to itself.
Now, one technique I like to use is
putting the glass down right next to my notes, but it appears as though I'm just putting my glass down
so nobody ever sees quick eye movement.
Now I'm no magician, folks, but at some level, this is what magicians do.
They are causing misdirection.
Now, I'm not doing anything to say, Look over here while I look at my note.
It's not like that.
But I'm not trying to call attention to this thing here.
Now, here's the next big tip on how to not look like you're using notes.
Don't stand behind the classic lectern.
If you stand right behind a lectern and you put your notes right there, even if you aren't looking
at them very often, people are going to assume you are because that's what people do when they read
boring speeches and read their notes all the time.
They stand behind the lectern and it's boring and they're looking down.
So that begs the question, well, where do you put your notes?
I wouldn't hold them in my hands if I were you.
I would place them on a table quite often.
You'll have a table in a room where you're speaking and it might be where your glass of water is.
So keep that in mind.
Now, if you have a lectern, there's a place to stand right behind it.
Don't stand behind it.
So if this is the lectern, most people would have their notes like this.
What I do is I turn my notes sideways.
Now I can stand over here, be walking by my eyes, can scoop up, look at the notes.
But I'm looking at people.
And you know what?
Friends?
I love technology.
I love PowerPoint.
I love video.
I love apps.
This friend has never asked for electricity.
This friend has never complained about malware or a virus.
This friend has never had a bold burn out and tell me it's not going to work.
That's the beauty of good old fashioned paper and people aren't expecting it.
Maybe you are using PowerPoint, that's fine, but you can just use images.
Now.
You're not going to put your notes for the whole world to see.
Your notes are for right here.
This is just for you.
Don't tell anyone you're using it now.
I've never speak without notes, but I never tell anyone I'm using notes till the very end.
And the response is always the same from people.
I had no idea you're using notes because I like to remind people my memory is horrible.
I have no idea what's next in a speech or a presentation.
I certainly don't want to stay up late the night before practicing again and again and again, rehearsing,
memorizing.
And that's hard work.
I'd rather relax, have a glass of wine.
So I'm not going to ask you to practice and rehearse memorizing till midnight if I'm not willing to
do it.
You don't need to if you have notes.
Now, if you're telling me, Well, TJ, I tried that.
I couldn't get it to one page.
I had to put it on two pages.
That tells me you've done a very poor job of putting things in priority.
So much of being a great presenter has nothing to do with your voice or your eyes or your hands.
It has to do with being a better editor.
If you can't edit your speech.
To a single sheet of paper with large font.
You have not done a good enough job editing.
Therefore, your speech is probably going to be an awful failure because it's going to be a boring data
dump because you're giving people too much stuff.
So that's your homework assignment right now.
I need you to come up with a single sheet of paper and it should fit on a half a sheet of paper.
And this is an hour's speech.
So if you're giving a ten minute speech, you should have a lot fewer bullet points on there.
I'm going to show you even more advanced techniques of how to use this to trick and fool your audience
to an even greater extent so that they're going to walk out of this room swearing that you were just
talking to them off the top of your head ad libbing because you're so passionate about this subject.
And really you're going to be using notes the entire time, but come up with your outline right now
and I'll give you even more advanced tips.

--- Walk the Room as If You Own the Room ---

Now I want to share with you a really advanced tip.
Now, I say advanced.
Anybody could do it.
A five year old child could do this, and yet very few speakers ever do.
Now, by now, you should have on a single sheet of paper, ideally a half sheet.
Your notes for your entire speech, your five main ideas or fewer.
A few facts.
A number you need for each one, and a word or two to remind you of the story.
The example you want to tell.
Cut it out so that it's not even using a full sheet of paper.
It can now sit down on the table in front of you on the lectern if you want.
Now, here's the advanced technique.
This probably cost you $0.02 for a piece of paper.
Make 2 or 3 more copies.
Now I want you to walk around the room where you're going to give the speech before anyone else shows
up and place your script strategically in different places.
So, for example, some classrooms might have a long, narrow table, 30ft long in front of the teacher
or the speaking place, put one on one end, one on another.
You can have some ave table in the whole back of the room where there's a TV.
You could put one there.
Put these strategically around the room.
Guess what that lets you do.
You can be looking at the script one minute, telling you what to say.
You're going to go into your story and now you can walk around the room.
You can walk ten feet over the other part of the room, glance down, and now you see your next place.
Well, this is going to blow people away because they are used to seeing, for the most part, only
professional speakers.
Movie around the room, moving around the stage, using the whole of the space you're in because, my
goodness, everybody else is too nervous.
They've got to stay right there where their script is and stay behind the lectern.
Can't go away.
Someone might hit me.
It's kind of the attitude most speakers have.
That's what makes them seem timid, scared, nervous.
But you're simply walking around.
And when you're walking, people can see your hands.
You're completely exposed.
Now you're wearing clothes, but you're completely exposed to them.
Therefore, you come across as supremely confident and relaxed.
There's a part of the audience thinking, Wow, I can never do that.
Here he is, or here she is in front of hundreds or even 12 people, and he's just walking around.
She's just walking around and talking to us.
What confidence?
Now, not everyone is thinking about it at the intellectual level in those terms, but in their gut
level, they're forming impressions of you as someone who is supremely confident, who's just talking
to them, therefore you're more believable.
You're the real expert.
You know this.
You're just talking to them.
The reality is you have no idea.
You may be like I am.
You have no I have no idea what's next in my speech anytime, but I'm completely relaxed because I have
my roadmap here, there, there and there.
Now, I've demonstrated this a thousand times to audiences all over the world, and they're always like,
Oh my God, we're blown away.
I had no idea you had various scripts around because they didn't notice the scripts.
It's not what they are expecting.
And that's the beauty of this.
When you walk around more, it gives you time to reflect, pause.
It slows down the speech too.
And when you walk a little, you can be glancing down and that's a good time to see what's next on the
script.
So this is a very, very simple technique.
Anyone can do it.
Now, if you are giving a speech at a large convention, for example, and you are on an elevated stage,
a platform, what you can do is write out your notes in large poster board.
I've seen Joan Rivers, the deceased comedian, do that, and when it's elevated, no one can see it.
So it just looks like you're being reflective for a moment, looking down as you walk and your notes
are on the floor.
I've done this before, too.
It's quite effective.
And again, you have all your notes in 4 or 5 different sections of the stage.
Nobody will know.
It will be our little secret.
So this technique, when you combine what I did earlier and if you've got your script, this is profoundly
powerful.
So now we've got to start practicing and I'm going to show you how to do that in just a moment.
But your task right now copy out four copies of your script.
You had one.
Now I want four.

--- Learn the #1 Secret to Speaking Success - Video Rehearsal ---

You're not going to like this next step.
But it is absolutely critical to appearing to speak without notes and to just be a great speaker.
You've got to do what I'm about to ask, and that is you have to rehearse.
But rehearse in a very specific way.
You have to rehearse on video.
So I need you to put a webcam up in the corner, put an iPad, lean it up against the wall, or have
a friend, family member or colleague hold a cell phone up.
But I need you to practice your speech with the four identical copies of your notes around the room.
Try to simulate the room as close as possible to where you'll be giving your next speech.
And I need you to practice giving the speech out loud.
And I need you to video record it.
People don't like to do this.
People hate it.
I don't like the sound of my voice.
I don't like looking at myself.
Well, grow up.
Every single person in your audience has to listen to your speech.
Every single person in your audience has to see your face so you're not hiding anything from anyone.
By not looking at yourself, you're going to have to see how you come across.
You also need to see if your outline works, because sometimes things look good on paper, but you get
up and talk.
You're finishing one point and you look down.
It's like, What was that again?
You might have to tweak your notes.
It's not too late because you're not giving the speech yet.
You're just practicing giving the speech of all the things that are going to dramatically make you seem
more confident to work out the kinks to make your speech better, to build your speaking skills more.
Practicing on video is really the number one thing.
And if you want to completely convey the sense that you're just talking to people, you care about them,
you're having a conversation with them and you're not somebody up here reading boring notes the way
most speakers are.
You have to practice on video.
Now, it's not that hard and it's not that time consuming.
If you have a 20 minute speech, stand up and speak for 20 minutes and watch it for 20 minutes.
That's 40 minutes.
You may say you don't have time, but the way most people spend their time preparing for presentations,
they'll spend hours writing and rewriting and rearranging bullet points on PowerPoint slides and getting
things approved.
For the most part, a massive waste of time.
You need to allocate time rehearsing on video.
If there's no time to rehearse on video, there's really no time to give the speech.
I'd much rather you just not do the speech than to give the speech without practicing on video.
So that's your homework right now.
Practice your speech.
Practice looking at your notes in a way that isn't too quick, isn't jerky, isn't noticeable to people.
In fact, it would be nice if you could bring someone in, not just the person holding the camera to
watch and ask them what they thought of how you're giving a speech.
It may be that you fooled them already with this first take, but regardless, even if it's just you
taping on your own webcam, I need you to give your presentation now, working just from your notes
around the room and not from a script and not from reading out outward and not from looking at bullet
points on a PowerPoint, but just your own piece of paper.
Do that now.

--- Final Thoughts On How to Speak Using Notes the Right Way ---

Thanks for joining me for this course on how to speak without notes or at least appear to be speaking
without notes.
I mean, it really all comes down to this.
You've got to have your cheat sheet.
It doesn't work.
If you make the font teeny tiny.
It doesn't work if you make the font really large, but you have three, four, five, ten sheets of
paper and it really doesn't work very well if you only have one sheet.
So again, to summarize, boil your message down to five key points.
Have an example or story for each one.
Put it on a simple outline with large font.
Have it fit on a half sheet of paper, make multiple copies of it, place it around the room.
Practice your speech in advance on video until you're happy with it.
Then when you're there giving the presentation, you can simply walk around, be looking at people most
of the time, occasionally glancing at notes, and no one will ever have any idea who you're using notes.
Good luck.

--- Each Team Member Must Be Interesting and Memorable - Presentation Skills ---

So you and members of your team have to give a team presentation, a group presentation.
How do you really go about this?
Well, for starters, I want to set out some ground rules.
Number one, you got to realize that when you are standing and speaking, giving that new business pitch,
giving the report to the client at that particular moment, there is no team there to bail you out.
You have to be a great speaker right then and you have to do everything well.
So to some extent you got to push aside the thoughts about team presentation and make sure that you
have a really good presentation yourself, every aspect of your style and substance.
Now the team part comes into play because someone's sitting watching you is looking at the whole thing.
So whether it's 4 or 5, six presenters, it has to fit together.
The various speakers have to be complimentary.
Things have to connect, they have to lead to one conclusion that you want the audience to make.
So that requires a little more organization and a little more planning.
But I do want to caution you, the biggest problem a lot of people have is they're so focused on the
hand-off and everyone working from the slide deck that they don't realize that at the particular moment
when they are speaking, it's still a speech and people are making judgments about you.
Interesting, useful, or this person is just going through the deck.
They handed us the deck.
Anyway, let me check my email.
So we're going to go into all this and more in the course.
Let's hop right in.

--- Your Presentation Goals Will Be Identified and Accomplished ---

The first thing you and your team have to do before planning your whole presentation is to step back
a minute and ask yourself, what is the actual goal of this presentation?
What action do we want the audience members to do after our presentation is over?
Now, if you're giving a new business pitch, you want a contract or you want them to at least ask you
for a formal proposal.
So I know this sounds obvious and you may be thinking, well, it's all the information going to be
this basic in this class, but I've seen countless, countless group presentations where you just get
lost.
I mean, it's like they're trying to tell you every single thing about their business.
That's happened every week for 29 straight quarters, and people are kind of left saying, Huh, And
you've got to have that clarity at the beginning.
What is it you want people to do and work back from that as opposed to telling people every single thing
your organization does And what every single division does.
So start with that.
Try to write it down in one sentence.
What's the goal of this group presentation?

--- Spell Out Benefits for Your Audience Public Speaking ---

When you're coming up with a message for your speech, your presentation, you constantly have to look
at it from two tracks.
How are you connecting with people, appealing to people with their head at the head level, the intellectual
level?
And how about at the heart level?
How are you connecting at the emotional level?
You've got to have ideas that do both.
Now, if all you do is communicate emotionally, then maybe you're a demagogue.
If all you do is communicate at the intellectual level, then chances are it may fall flat.
Unless someone is a student in your classroom.
But great communicators consistently communicate at both the head and heart level.
So when you're coming up with your messages and that's why there's the importance of stories and examples,
you always have to be thinking about communicating on these two tracks the head and the heart.

--- These Top 5 Messages Will Help You Connect With The Audience ---

Once you've determined exactly what the goal is from this presentation, what you want the people you're
presenting to, to do now, you've got to ask yourself what is going to motivate them to do that?
What's going to drive them on that?
And I want you to brainstorm together with your team.
You may come up with 50 ideas, 100 ideas, but then I need you to edit it down to put things in priority,
to use your discretion and come up with the top five ideas, not five big themes with 27 different points
underneath each one, but five main ideas you really want to focus on in this presentation.
Even if it's a two hour presentation, I want you to focus on.
The reason I pick five is I test audiences all over the world all the time to tell me everything they
remember from presentations, individual presentations and group presentations.
I never find anyone who remembers more than a handful of ideas, and sometimes it's 1 or 2 ideas and
unfortunately, the most common thing people remember from group presentations is it was all sort of
boring.
They're going through the PowerPoint.
We'll look at the PowerPoint later.
That's unfortunately the main thing people remember.
So for right now, brainstorm with your team members on the top five ideas.
These are the things you absolutely, positively have to have the people you're speaking to, Remember.

--- Don't Make Your Speech a Data Dump Public Speaking ---

It's the number one problem most speakers have everywhere in the world.
The problem is they turn their speech into a massive data dump.
It's like they were told, you got to give this presentation in a month.
So they grab a wheelbarrow and start going around the office, gathering every stack of paper, every
stack of books, going to people's offices saying, Give me all your PowerPoints on a similar subject
from a month ago.
They walk into the boardroom the day of the speech, and now the wheelbarrow is stacked ten feet high
and they're thinking, Hmm, what do I leave in?
What do I leave out if I leave this out?
Smithers may complain if I leave this out.
Well, Mary could accuse me of leaving something out.
You know what?
Why don't I play it safe and just dump everything in?
And if I speak really quickly, I can get it all in.
How does that make you feel when someone does that and they're just speaking quickly, fact after fact,
maybe a whole bunch of boring PowerPoint slides.
It just doesn't work.
It's overwhelming.
And most of us tune out.
So what do we do?
We check our email and the latest movie review.
Or if it's our boss and we're on the front row, we've perfected the technique of appearing to be looking
right there at the boss, paying attention.
But really, our mind is thinking, Hmm, Halloween is tonight and do I have my costume set?
What time does it get?
Our mind is a million miles away.
That's the problem with doing a data dump.
It simply does not work.
Every medium has its strengths and weaknesses.
A book, A textbook.
A newspaper can be a great way of communicating lots and lots of data.
When you're speaking, it's a great way of showing your importance, your feeling, your emotion for
something, putting a spotlight on it.
But it's not particularly an effective way of creating lots and lots of data and having it stick in
your audience's brain.
So you simply cannot do whatever you do.
You've got to avoid the data dump.

--- Time to Assign Topics to Your Team ---

So you've isolated your five key concepts.
Now you've got to divvy up the responsibilities.
I would recommend that each person hit no more than one main point.
Now, if you've got ten people giving the presentation, you've got two people per point to flesh out
different aspects of it or different examples.
If you have three people, then two of them hit a couple of points.
What you don't want to do is have each person try to cover everything and be duplicative and cover the
same topics.
And what you don't want to do is have each person try to explain every single part of their little niche,
their little kingdom.
So that's what you've got to decide now.
Make assignments, decide who exactly is going to talk about what, and let's figure out the order.
Who's going to start off.
You want your strongest presenter to start and your strongest or your second strongest to finish?
Both are critically important.
And let's figure out some order here.
So come up with the points, divvy it up, figure out a logical order that makes sense.
Do this before starting a single PowerPoint slide.
The worst thing you could possibly do is just start typing.
Slot Bullet.
Bullet.
Bullet point.
Bullet.
No.
Hey, folks, we got 35 slides now we got the presentation.
Now let's figure out who does what.
If you do that approach, you are guaranteed failure.
Start with the messages.
Figure out the order.
Give the assignments.
We'll worry about the PowerPoint later.

--- How Many Points Should Your Presentation Cover Public Speaking ---

What's the best number of messages to try to communicate when you're giving a speech or presentation?
Before I answer that, I want you to think for a minute.
Think of the best speaker you've heard in your industry where you were there in the same room.
Think of the best speaker you've heard in the last year or the last five years.
Now, tell me how many messages you remember from that presentation.
And I don't mean that you like the person's style.
They were funny or they walked around the room or engaged or whatever.
I don't mean any of that.
I mean the actual content.
How many messages do you remember?
Think about it.
Now, I've asked that question of clients all over the world for years and years and years, and quite
often I ask people that and they say, TJ, I don't remember anything.
I guess my memory isn't very good.
Well, their memories aren't worse than anyone else's.
Sometimes people will remember one idea, and this could be from the greatest speaker they saw yesterday.
Occasionally two ideas, sometimes three ideas.
Every few months someone will remember four ideas, and then once every six months I'll actually have
a client.
Remember five ideas, literally a handful of ideas.
And for the more than a decade when I've asked that people that question, I've never had anyone really
remember more than about a minute's worth of content.
A handful of ideas from the best speaker they've seen in the last year to five years.
So that's why I tell you, don't be greedy.
Don't go into a presentation trying to communicate 50, 60, 70 ideas and these PowerPoint slides with
39 bullet points on each one.
It's simply not going to work.
I would recommend you try to communicate in no more than five big ideas, maybe three.
Again, five would put you into the world class category.
If you don't think you're the world's best speaker, then you may very well want to narrow it down to
fewer, even three.
So keep this in mind.
So much of being a great speaker has nothing to do with your voice or your hand gestures or your eye
contact.
So much of being a good speaker has to do with simply being a better editor and deciding in advance
which message points are got to haves versus nice to haves.
If it's a nice to have email it to people, give it as a handout, but don't try to cover it in your
actual presentation.

--- Each Person Must Prepare This Way ---

There are two dominant problems that affect virtually every single group presentation I've ever seen.
The first big problem is that each person feels compelled to give an incredible data dump to just put
out everything they know on the subject.
And it's boring, it's tedious, it's abstract, it's not memorable.
It goes in one ear and out the other.
The second big problem.
Most group presentations have is they have absolutely awful PowerPoint because the PowerPoint consists
of nothing but bullet points.
Lots of words.
If there is a chart or graph, it's wildly complex because it has 18 different color coded variables,
so it's really easy to be dramatically better than most group presentations if you just don't do those
two things.
Now, I'm not saying you can't have PowerPoint.
I'm not saying you can't deliver some data, especially if it's a client presentation and you're going
over a lot of expensive research they've paid for and it's a four hour presentation.
I understand you have to go through some data.
But here's the big challenge.
If you're going to give a presentation when you're standing up, whether you're a part of five people
or ten people or no people, when you're speaking, people are watching you, they're listening to you.
They're trying to figure out, is this interesting, useful?
Pay attention or boring data dump?
Let me tune out.
Let me check my email and I'll read their PowerPoint later.
So you've got to be thinking about that at every second of your group presentation when you're speaking
and when everyone else is speaking.
Do we actually have something being talked about right now that's compelling enough to have someone
say, Oh, that's interesting, that's useful, I'll pay attention.
Or is it just kind of boilerplate stuff we have to go through?
You don't want the boilerplate stuff that we kind of have to go through because you're giving people
an out.
You don't want to do that.
So now each one of you is going to have to give a presentation.
I know this sounds mildly contradictory, but right now I want you to sort of go off on your own as
individuals and come up with your speech, your presentation, as if you were going to be speaking alone
in the room and just trying to cover your part, not all the other parts of the group presentation.
So it's time for us to separate and it's time to come up with your own messages, your own examples,
your own stories and your case studies.
Because when you're speaking, you don't have the team behind you.
It's not a group.
It is sink or swim when you are speaking in a presentation.
So you've got to make each individual presentation great.
We'll figure out on the other side how to put these all together and make sure it fleshes together as
a group presentation.
But it doesn't matter how good your group skills are.
If any one individual presentation isn't great, it's going to bring everything down in order to have
a great group presentation, every single presenter has to do a couple of things.
You have to present in a way that's interesting and understandable.
And yet to present in a way that's memorable.
You've got to do those two things.
If you don't do those two things, nothing else really matters.
So let's break off now and start working individually on our specific messages and our stories, and
I'll give you more specifics on how to do that in a moment.

--- Writing a Speech Public Speaking ---

What is the best way to write a speech?
Some of you are not going to like this advice.
You professional speechwriters are not going to like this.
But here's my recommendation.
If you actually have to give a speech and my advice is do not write a speech out word for word, it's
different if you're a professional keynote speaker and you're being paid 50,000.
It's different if you are a president of a country and people are going to be analyzing and transcribing
every single word.
I'm speaking here primarily to adults who are speaking business civic occasions, and here's why I say
don't write it out.
It's really hard.
It's time consuming.
If you write it all out and you get a little bit nervous, there's this tendency to start reading.
And what reads well doesn't necessarily sound good to the ear.
My recommendation is come up with bullet points.
Come up with a list of your top five ideas, your main ideas, and have a sentence fragment three,
4 or 5 words to remind you of what the concept is.
If there are a couple of facts statistics you need listed under that, and then a few words to tell
you a story associated with that and to work from notes and outline.
It's much, much more effective for most people.
Most of the time I'm not trying to give something that's a solution for everyone 100% of the time,
but if you have to give any sort of business presentation, political speech, anything that is not
in the academic world and you're not a president of a country and the whole media world is looking at
you, then I would recommend don't write out the whole speech, come up with ideas, work from a single
sheet of notes, and then practice on video.
Far more important than writing the speech out perfectly word for word.

--- Group PowerPoint ---

Another word about PowerPoint in team presentations.
In my experience, far too much energy is spent on having the consistent look and the branding just
right at the bottom and everyone having the exact same number of bullet points.
That is the wrong approach.
The only reason you're using PowerPoint is to make your ideas more understandable to the audience.
So I'd much rather you use different styles of PowerPoint, and yet the images you use actually resonate
with your audience.
They're understandable, they're memorable.
And then if each one of the speakers as a whole lot of data put that together in a document, a word
document, it could be a PowerPoint document, email it in advance, hand it out, email it afterwards.
But I'm telling you right now, if you want your team presentation to follow a script and the script
is the PowerPoint and you're basically kind of half talking to it, kind of referring to it, kind of
always looking at notes back up here.
Your group presentation is going to be awful.
It's going to be boring.
People don't like to read bullet points on a screen 20 or 30ft away when people are talking to them.
So I'm sorry.
I do realize that most corporations, that is the status quo of lots of bullet points for the group
presentation.
And we have this following pattern and everyone sticks to the script.
Let me tell you, nobody in your audience cares about your script.
All they care about is do you have something interesting, useful and relevant to say to them?
And are you saying it in a way that's memorable or are you showing them something that's memorable?
That's the only thing your audience cares about?
You want to be a great group presenter or solo presenter.
You've got to focus on what your audience wants, not what you want, not what your corporate mandate
tradition is.
You've got to focus on your audience.
So if you're going to have a PowerPoint again, I would recommend you have two separate PowerPoints.
One that's lots and lots and lots of notes, words, text, bullet points, email it to people, hand
it out.
Another one that has images and you can all work from the same deck.
But if you're going to use the images, all of you need to be on the same page.
It looks odd for one person to have great, interesting visuals that are fascinating and then the next
person comes up and it's a white screen and a whole bunch of black text with bullet points.
That's a bit jarring.
It's not that you all have to have the same styles, but if someone has a really good, interesting,
memorable visual style and someone else is presenting in a way that reminds everyone in the audience
as the worst possible data dumping droning speaker, that's a real downer.
Now you can say, Well, TJ, we're a team and different people have different styles and wants and
needs.
And Smithers over here, he's more comfortable with all of his notes on the PowerPoint.
I got to tell you, I don't care about Smithers.
Sorry if that sounds cold or cruel.
You know who I care about?
The audience who has to listen to Smithers, that prospective client.
They got to hear pitches from five other firms, and Smithers is going to bore them if he sort of stands
up and reads bullet points.
So my recommendation have a PowerPoint document that you email to people handout, but the PowerPoint
that you're projecting, use images and have everyone on the team use it.
Because if even one person insists on boring text, it's going to really leave a sad, sour taste in
the mouth of your audience.

--- Magical Phrase for Every Speech Public Speaking ---

So what is the most magical phrase a speech maker can ever give?
I'll give you an example in a moment.
The magical phrase is example.
Let me give you an example.
For example, research shows that if you put a video camera on an audience and the speaker says, Let
me give you an example or for an example, there's palpable head and eye movement upward.
People are looking up, trying to really figure out what it is you're talking about.
They're trying to see it for themselves.
They're trying to visualize it.
I have never in the 30 years of this business heard people coming out of a convention hall saying,
I hated the way that speaker gave us so many interesting, relevant examples.
The beauty of examples is it takes a concept from the abstract to the particular.
It allows your audience to visualize it, to understand it, to taste it, touch it, feel it.
So any point that you want people to understand and remember, you need to illustrate that point with
an example.
Don't tell me there's no time.
If there's no time for an example, then there's no time to talk about the concept in the first place.

--- First Rehearsal ---

So each team member should have a presentation.
Now it's time to put it all together.
So all of you need to get in the same conference room or wherever you will be presenting and you need
to decide the order.
Really nail that down.
If you're using the same slide deck and you do need to use the same slide deck.
If you're using slides, you don't have time to be changing programs and pulling up different programs.
You need to have the slide deck all together so everyone knows where they are and then let's just do
it.
And when I say do it, I mean practice not in front of any clients or prospects or other colleagues
other than your group.
Let's do a run through.
Here's the key.
You're not going to want to do this, but you have to record it on video.
It can be a cell phone.
It doesn't have to be a big fancy camera, but it could be an iPad, It could be a webcam.
You need to practice the whole thing on video and then watch it.
You're not trying to get it perfect the first time.
It's a rough draft.
You don't write memos perfectly The first time you edit it, review it, spell check it, make it better.
Same with the presentation.
Great team presentations are great because they've been refined, they've been practiced, they've been
rehearsed.
And the most specific thing you can do is rehearse on video and watch it.
So let's go ahead do a full rehearsal.
You absolutely have to do it on video.
It's not enough to just give each other feedback.
It's not enough to have a mirror in the room and watch yourself.
Waste of time.
You've got to videotape it in order to really see what's working, what isn't, work working, and to
be able to have some perspective on it.
Now, your first time, it may be a little awkward.
One person finishes and has the next one come up and there's time to work all that out.
But when you do finish, summarize your main points, make a conclusion with a little bit of finality,
and then briefly introduce your colleague the next speaker.
It needs to be a smooth, simple.
Nothing embarrassing about it.
Handoff For some reason I've seen people who've worked together for years in a corporation do a group
presentation and the handoff is always sort of awkward and, well, you know, now's Larry and Larry's
really good at it.
There's this awkwardness.
You want to know exactly what to say.
A part of your presentation is introducing the next man, the next woman, to speak in a way that has
a purpose, has a focus, and is planned as much as anything else you say.
When I say planned, I don't mean memorized because as you remember, I'm recommending that you speak
from a simple sheet of notes, not from PowerPoint and not from a whole script, but just simple notes.
So let's go ahead.
Let's do a whole dry run.
This is also a time to get a sense of our timing.
You all may be great speakers, but if each one of you is speaking for a half an hour and it adds up
to 2.5 hours and there's only an hour allotted for your new business pitch, you got a problem.
It's not going to get shorter on its own.
So you can get a sense of how long it is, how things are coming.
And this will be your first time to see all the presentations together, not on the PowerPoint deck,
which is frankly irrelevant, but actually seeing it more like an audience member.
So give the presentations.
If you're going to use PowerPoint, use PowerPoint now, record it on video and then watch it after
you watch it in silence.
I need each one of you to write down what you like and don't like about your own presentation, but
with everyone else's presentation too.
And then share your notes.
Do that right now.

--- How to Eliminate Nervousness for public speaking Public Speaking ---

Okay.
It's the number one question I get.
It's the number one question on the Internet about speaking.
How do I get over my fear or nervousness over speaking?
Let me start by asking you a question.
How do you get over your nerves of sending a document to your boss or your most important clients filled
with all sorts of typos and grammatical mistakes?
Chances are you'd tell me.
Well, T.J., that's pretty easy.
I run it through spellcheck, I edit it.
I go through a couple of drafts.
Well, no kidding.
But that's exactly what you can do with your speech or presentation.
Here's the difference.
Your speech, your presentation is not the words on a document.
Your speech is you actually speaking.
So the only way to review it and critique it is for you to watch a video of yourself.
Now, when I started in this business 30 years ago, you could make the excuse there's no time.
It's too expensive to hire a production crew.
But you don't have that excuse.
Everyone is surrounded by video cameras.
It's in your cell phone.
It's likely in your computer, your iPad.
There are video cameras everywhere.
They're cheap and plentiful.
You can buy one for $10 at the grocery store.
Now, you might not want to practice on video.
Hey, you're the one who wants to get over your nervousness, your fear of public speaking.
I'm telling you, this is the absolute best way to do it.
Now, here's the trick.
You can't practice your speech on video once and say, Oh, well, I don't like that.
But now I've practiced.
No, that's only going to make matters worse.
You've got to watch your speech, figure out what you like, what do you not like, the stuff you like.
Do more of the stuff you don't like.
Do less.
Now, here's the real key.
You have to keep on practicing your speech on video until you can point to it and say, Wow, that guy,
that woman, she's great.
Wish I could speak half as good as she does.
Once you get to that point, it becomes impossible to be nervous.
The reason you're nervous is you don't really know how you're coming across.
The reason you're nervous is you're afraid you might really be boring.
Well, guess what?
You might really be boring.
There's no way of knowing unless you watch yourself.
Trust me, you can ignore every other piece of advice I give you.
If you follow this one piece of advice, you'll be head and shoulders above everyone else, and you
will never fear speaking.
And that is, you have to practice on video and you like what you see.
Absolute guarantee it will eliminate your nerves.

--- Second Rehearsal ---

Now it's time to do another rehearsal.
You need to incorporate all the criticisms.
I'd like you to focus on just 1 or 2 things to do better.
The main thing is, after you're watching this video, I want each one of you to see market improvement
in at least one area.
If you try to solve ten problems, you're just going to frustrate yourself.
Focus on one thing.
Maybe it's your fidgeting with your ring on your finger and look nervous or your eyes are darting around.
Whatever it is, you be the judge.
Try to solve that one problem.
We'll get to the other problems again.
So let's do the whole thing, videotape it again, critique it again.
Then share your notes with each other.

--- How to Avoid Making a Bad Impression during Presentations Public Speaking ---

So how do you avoid making a bad impression when you're giving a speech or presentation?
With all due respect, that's an extremely low standard.
Those are very low expectations.
That's like telling your investment advisor, Hey, I only want you to lose $50,000 on my portfolio
this year.
No one would start off the year saying I only hope to not lose too much.
That's defensive.
You should go into every single speech, every single presentation you give with an offensive attitude
with the idea of, Hey, I can only win here.
This is a chance for me to really communicate some great ideas I have to this audience, help them and
make them think better about me.
You have to go into this.
I hate to sound like one of these positive thinking gurus or, you know, attraction stuff.
That's not what I'm talking about.
I think it's realistic to think, okay, you've got time to speak in front of these people and if you
do a good job, you're actually going to help them and help you.
So you've got to focus on the ideas you have that are going to be interesting, relevant and memorable
to your audience.
If you do that, it's virtually impossible to leave a bad impression, especially if you've rehearsed
on video, as I've asked you to do.

--- Third Rehearsal ---

Ideally, we're seeing some progress.
It's time to do another rehearsal.
And you guessed it on video.
I'm telling you right now, if you tell yourself, well, we'll videotape the next one, let's just
do a dry run.
You're wasting valuable time.
You will get so much more value out of this by videotaping it and recording it.
Trust me, this is all I do for the last 30 years.
You're not going to get the same benefit talking it out loud as you would by talking out loud and video
recording it and watching it.
So it's time to do it again.
There's good news and bad news here.
You should be seeing some improvement by now.
So you're going to tape it, speak it out loud, tape it, watch it again.
And if you really like it, if you think the whole thing gels, it flows nicely.
Each speaker stand on its own.
Guess what?
You're ready to give the presentation.
However, if you're not completely satisfied with the entire presentation, I need you to do it again.
It's not about passing my test or some corporate communication policy test.
It's about, at this point, passing your test.
I need all of you in the group to be able to watch the video of this group presentation and say, Wow,
if we can be half as good as that group, we're going to totally dominate this new business pitch.
We're going to just be fantastic.
It'd be great if we could even speak half as good.
I would want to listen to those people if that weren't me.
That's got to be your response.
If you get to that point, you are going to be overwhelmed with confidence and you're going to do a
great job.
Because let's face it, you've heard thousands of speeches in your own life and you've heard a lot of
group presentations, you know, the bad stuff, you know, the boring stuff.
So if you can actually watch your own video of the whole group presentation and you like it, that's
a pretty tall standard.
That's a pretty high threshold.
That's where you have to be.
Now, you may be there already.
Great.
Go relax.
But if you're not, keep practicing.
I don't care how many times it may take you one more take.
It may take you 30 takes.
You are not ready to give this group presentation until you can look at the video every minute of it
and be happy with it.
Because when you think about it, that's what you do.
When you're sending a text proposal or an email, you don't send an email to an important client and
say, You know what?
I know the punctuation is all messed up in that last paragraph, but you know, I'm tired of working
on it.
Let me just hit send.
You wouldn't do that.
Well, why in the world would you give a presentation if you haven't actually seen yourself deliver
it in a way that you think is great?
So that's my challenge to you.
Keep on practicing on video until you like what you see.
Now let's get back to the real world for a minute.
What do most organizations do when they're giving team presentations?
They spend all of their time fussing with the PowerPoint slide.
Oh, let's change this bullet point.
Let's add this data point.
Let's rearrange this.
Let's move the logo from here to here, all of it.
A complete, utter waste of time.
That has zero impact on what the audience actually remembers.
Again, if you're going to use a PowerPoint, fine.
I use PowerPoint all the time.
If you're going to have one with lots and lots of text, I wouldn't recommend projecting it.
I'd hand it out or email it.
But if you're going to do it, you've got to put the PowerPoint to bed at least a few days before the
presentation so you can spend your time speaking the presentation out loud, practicing on video until
you like it, or you can do it.
Most corporations do, and most organizations is stay up till two in the morning, rearranging the deck,
changing the slides at 845 in the morning for the 9 a.m. speech.
If you do that, you are condemned to a disastrous group presentation.
So focus on the rehearsal with video.

--- Should I Rehearse My Speech and for how long Public Speaking ---

Should you rehearse your speech or presentation, and if so, for how long?
The answers are, of course, yes.
And as long as it takes for you to be great.
There's this old tale out there that says, Oh, far better to just be spontaneous.
You'll be fresh, complete, utter nonsense.
That's an excuse from people who are lazy or are nervous and they want to avoid and procrastinate.
Yes, you need to rehearse every speech, every presentation you give, but you need to rehearse in
a particular way.
You need to rehearse on video.
And that could be as simple as talking to your own cell phone and recording it.
I do not.
And let me repeat, I do not recommend that you rehearse by talking to the mirror, because if you're
talking to a mirror, you're going to be thinking, hmm, is my nose somehow gotten a little crooked?
Am I losing even more hair?
What's with these jowls?
You can't be in the moment presenting if you're looking at your face.
Because everyone and I mean everyone has something they don't like about their face.
So I would not recommend that if you want to rehearse in front of your dog, I don't have a problem
with that.
But make sure there is a video recorder present and recording you so you can watch it.
Here's the real key to rehearsal.
It doesn't do any good to rehearse it once.
Well, it does a tiny little bit of good, but the real key to rehearsal is to keep doing it until you
like the results.
Maybe you can do that in one take.
Maybe it takes ten takes.
Maybe it takes two days.
Guess what?
Your audience doesn't care.
They simply want your best.
So it's your job to rehearse yourself, to get you to the point where you're at your very best.

--- Conclusion to Team Presentations ---

Congratulations.
You are ready to give this group presentation.
It's going to be a great presentation.
You don't have to take my word for it.
You now have proof.
You have evidence.
You've watched the video of yourself.
You've done the exercises.
You're not going to make the mistakes most people make.
You're not going to do a boring data dump.
You're not going to have an awful PowerPoint with lots and lots of text that people read.
Each one of your presenters is going to be interesting and compelling.
Have examples, case studies, stories.
The visuals, if you're using slides, will actually be visual with pictures, images, things that
people can see that aren't abstractions and little letters, and it's all going to flow nicely.
You're going to be comfortable with each other because you've practiced.
You know exactly how you sound.
The substance will be there, the style will be there.
You put it together and it's going to be a great winning team presentation.
Good luck.

--- How to Make a Speech in a Business Setting Public Speaking ---

So how do you make a speech in a business setting?
A business setting, frankly, is not that much different from any other setting when you're giving
a presentation, because remember, ultimately you're speaking to human beings.
They're just sitting there listening, trying to make a judgment.
Does this person interesting, I'll pay attention or boring and I will check my email.
That's ultimately what every audience is thinking.
It doesn't matter if it's a formal situation, an informal situation, technical presentation, PowerPoint
presentation.
So a lot of times speakers get themselves into trouble telling themselves, Oh, I'm now in a business
setting, so I have to be businesslike and what they mean, or at least they think they mean to themselves,
is they have to throw away all the interesting things they normally say.
Get rid of stories, examples, exchanges, humor, and then just stick to dry, boring data dumps.
Well, no, my friends, the most effective business communicators always use examples is they always
tell stories.
They try to inject humor.
And whether they're talking to two people, 200 or 2000, they have a conversational tone of voice.
Because if they're speaking to more than 20 people, they probably have a microphone on.
So don't talk in an officious sort of way.
Don't freeze yourself.
Don't stand behind the lectern locked down.
You want to move, be comfortable, confident and relaxed.
And ultimately, you've got to focus on creating an interesting, memorable presentation.
If you do that, it's going to be a great business presentation, a great political presentation, a
great board of directors.
It's going to be great for any type of presentation.

--- Never Blunder the Way Most Panelists Do ---

So you've got an opportunity to present on a panel.
That's great, number one.
Number two, it's fantastic that you're taking it seriously enough that you're watching this video and
taking this course.
Here's the real danger of panel presentations is people kid themselves and they say, well, I'm not
giving a speech.
Of course I'd practice and spend a lot of time on that.
This is just a panel presentation.
It's just a panel talk.
It's no big deal.
Wrong.
That is absolutely the worst possible mentality you could have about presenting on a panel.
In some ways, a panel presentation is exactly the same as a keynote speech for an hour with you on
stage in front of 20,000 people.
Now, I know that sounds strange, but hear me out.
Every time you're speaking, people have to make judgments about you.
And I would submit there's four possible outcomes from your panel presentation.
The first one, the worst possible scenario is it's so awful.
You're sweating, you collapse, you run off the stage, you say something so ridiculous, you embarrass
yourself.
Now, that rarely happens every once in a while, but that's extremely rare.
I hope it never happens to you.
It's highly unlikely it will happen to you, but that is one potential outcome.
It could happen on any panel presentation.
It could happen in a speech.
The next outcome is you're perfectly professional, calm.
You present your stuff whether you're sitting or standing.
Everything's professional.
Afterwards, the organizers, thank you very much.
Good presentation.
And nobody remembers anything.
You said it was professional.
It was straightforward.
It was boring, it was bland, it was unmemorable.
It was devoid of great stories or anything else.
Instantly forgotten.
Now, it is my belief that that is what happens more than 99% of the time for most executives in every
industry when they are on a panel discussion.
I would say that's almost as awful as the first scenario.
We wasted time.
We wasted a huge opportunity to really communicate with people and we blew it by so-called playing it
safe.
Just sticking to the information.
Maybe you read something.
Maybe you read off some notes.
Maybe you just were winging it, but you didn't make any impression.
It didn't make a bad impression, but you didn't make any impression.
The third option is you come across as engaging, confident, authoritative, likable.
Maybe you stood up and walked while it was your turn to present.
Maybe you said something witty.
So people actually leave the conference where you were speaking on the panel with a favorable impression
about you?
Hey, that's pretty good.
It's nice to have people like you think you're great, think you're commanding, but there is a fourth
option every single time you're on a panel.
That fourth option is people actually understand the messages you're talking about and remember the
messages you're talking about so they can take actions or filter that into what they're doing in your
industry.
And only after the fact, they conclude that you're a good speaker and comfortable and confident and
all those wonderful things.
And the third option?
So everything we're doing in this class is about helping you get that fourth option.
It is my belief that you should have that goal for every panel presentation you're on.
I don't care if you're only given two minutes to talk or 20 minutes as a part of the set schedule of
the panel.
I don't care if it's just answering questions.
You still have the ability to communicate ideas in an interesting and memorable way and have people
come away with this with a positive impression of you.
That's our goal.
I hope that's your goal for every panel presentation you're a part of.

--- How can I find out whether my presentation worked? ---

So how can you find out if your speech or presentation was effective?
This is actually quite easy, and I'll tell you why.
By the way, it always bugs me when people talk about public speaking skills as a soft skill, like
soft, like a puppy.
It somehow, you know, like judging finger painting.
No, it's not.
Public speaking is just as easy to quantify as any aspect of accounting or physics.
Let me tell you how.
All you have to do, if you want to know if your speech is effective, is ask your audience afterwards.
But you have to ask them the right question.
Ask them what messages they remember from your presentation.
If they remember all of your key messages, you were effective.
If they don't remember, you were ineffective.
Same way you test if your slides are effective.
When you're done, ask your audience what PowerPoint slides.
They remember any slide they remember.
As long as they connect it to the point it was effective.
If they cannot remember your slide, it was ineffective.
Throw it in the trash can or give it as a handout, but don't use it in your actual presentation.
So if you've got a big presentation to 30 important clients on Thursday, get three colleagues, perhaps
people who work in different departments together at lunch on Tuesday, give them your presentation
in the lunch room.
When you're done, don't ask them What do they think?
Because they're going to want to be nice.
They're going to say, Oh, good job, Jim.
Great job, Sally.
Go get them.
That's not helpful advice.
Ask them what messages do they remember?
And because they can't lie about that, they can lie about whether they think you did a good job or
not, or whether you looked professional.
But ask them what messages they remember.
If they don't remember your messages, then you know you're not effective.
You've got to go back to the drawing board.
It's very easy to find out.
Now, also when you're giving a speech for real and people come up to you afterwards, if you're talking
to more than 20 people, typically someone will come up and say, Oh, good job today, good presentation.
What most of us do is we say, Oh, thanks, thanks a lot.
Now you can still do that.
But what I would recommend is then say, hey, thanks, tell me what stands out, What do you remember?
So when I do that and someone says, Well, you know, TJ, you were just so professional and you were
commanding and authoritative and you didn't have any ums.
And your real inspiration is somebody says that to me after a presentation.
I then know I was a complete, utter failure.
Because those weren't my messages.
If they can't tell me specific messages, examples, stories, case studies, I failed miserably.
So don't be afraid to ask people who come up to you after a presentation with any kind of feedback.
What do you remember?
That's honest feedback that you can take to the bank.

--- Master the Ground Rules So You Will Shine ---

Before we really set our goals for the panel presentation.
Beyond the idea of coming across well and communicating some ideas and being remembered, you've got
to know the ground rules of the panel.
So you should always ask the person who is invited you to be on the panel, or if it's your own organisation,
your own event, you need to know exactly what the ground rules are.
A panel discussion could mean you've got two panelists and each person stands, talks for 30 minutes,
then has sort of cross talk with the other panelist.
Then you take questions from an audience.
That's one way of doing it.
A panel could be you and ten people.
Nobody has a set speech and all you do is answer questions.
Now, the more common way would be something in between where each panelist gives overall opening remarks
for five minutes or so, and then you take questions.
But you've got to find that out.
So I need you to either try to find out the next time you'll be on a panel exactly what the ground rules
are or decide right now what the ground rules should be for your practice session that we're about to
do.
So right.
The ground rules down.
How long do you have to speak in a sort of set way at the beginning?
And then how long will the whole thing be?
How many other panelists will be there?
Will you be standing or sitting?
Now, It shouldn't make a difference, but I want you to know in advance so you can practice standing
or sitting based on what it will be like for the real panel.
So write down the ground rules now.

--- How to start a speech - Public Speaking ---

So what's the best way to start off your presentation?
The best way to start off your presentation is by saying something interesting to your audience, not
about yourself.
You don't have to start with a joke.
It doesn't have to be something amazingly emotional and compelling.
But what you do need to start off with is something of interest to your audience.
Now, what do most speakers do?
They start off with Good morning.
As you know, my name is this, my title is this.
And you may not be aware, but we're in the following cities that you don't care about because you're
in this city.
And I'm very happy to be here today.
That's how most speakers start.
And guess what?
It's deadly dull.
You already either know who they are and their name, rank and title, or you don't care.
At that stage of the relationship.
Do you care if the person is happy to be there?
The whole thing comes across as phony baloney, trite cliche.
So most people.
Start checking email.
They figure, Oh, the speaker hasn't really started.
I'm not really missing anything.
And you know what?
They're right.
Here's the problem, though.
Once you actually start your speech a minute or two and you've already lost the audience.
So what I recommend is dispense with all the phony baloney.
Thank you very much.
What an honor to be here.
Blah, blah, blah.
Start off where you normally would have started 2 or 3 minutes into your presentation.
Start by giving some piece of content, some idea, some message of interest to your audience.
And if you start with a story even better.
Now, if you want to thank the person who invited you or introduced you, do it in the middle of the
speech.
Do it near the end.
People aren't expecting it.
Then don't do it in the beginning.
This one thing will really make you stand out as different from other speakers because most speakers,
even if they're polished, even if their suit and tie or their dress is perfect, even if they have
good eye contact, the way they start their speech is.
Mi, mi, mi, mi mi mi mi mi.
I did this, and here's why I'm legitimate and here's why I'm great.
Nobody cares about that yet you can stand out by saying something interesting, useful, relevant to
your audience.
Do that and you will have hooked them.
They will stay with you for the rest of your presentation.

--- Communicate Effectively By Focusing on Your Top Three Messages ---

So what are your communication goals for this panel appearance?
And it shouldn't be so low as to just be, Well, I want people to think I'm smart and I know about
the industry.
That is a low bar.
The easiest way, by the way, to get people to think you're smart is to actually say interesting stuff
that's memorable about your industry.
That's the easiest way to get people to remember and perceive you as smart.
If you go in with something as vague and as fuzzy of, Oh, I just want to be seen as an industry expert
and have a few insightful comments to Low a bar.
So I want you to decide in advance what are the most important ideas that you want to weigh in on and
you want people to understand and remember and associate with you.
Now, in a typical speech, if you are the only person speaking and attention is on you, I would argue
no more than five ideas.
If you're a part of a panel and there's debate and there's lots of going back and forth.
Five is too many.
I would focus on no more than three ideas.
And you can put these ideas forth in your prepared talks.
You can also bridge back to them during the question and answer part.
You can also be looking for opportunities to add these points in when other speakers are allowing commentary
and debate on their presentation.
So I want you to go in with some agenda.
I'm not suggesting everything has to be canned and you're like some awful politician who says, Well,
I'm glad you asked me that.
But what's really important here today is boom, boom, boom.
I'm not suggesting you just ignore questions, ignore what other panelists say, and just focus on your
three messages.
But I am asking you to give some real thought to the ideas you care about the most.
So when you do have that opening five minutes to give your overall position on the issues of the day,
you can go right to that rather than trying to summarize every single thing that's happened in your
industry or what everyone else said.
Focus on the ideas you care about most.
So that's what I want you to do.
Now write down three sentences, ten words or less.
What are the three ideas that you really want to convey in this panel presentation you're giving?

--- How to Manage Time When Giving a Presentation ---

So how do you manage time when giving a speech or presentation?
For starters, you should have a pretty good sense of how long it takes you to give the presentation
because you should have rehearsed on video.
And these days that can be as simple as talking to your own cell phone, recording it and looking at
the time.
So this idea that it's impossible to have any idea of how long your speech takes just isn't true.
Now, the worst thing you can do is time your speech by reading it silently to yourself.
Because a speech that takes a half hour to give to people in the real world, you can read silently
to yourself in eight minutes.
So that's not going to have any relationship to the actual length of your presentation.
Now, when you're speaking, you need to factor in more time when there's an audience there because
they may have questions, there may be reactions.
You may see someone looking at you.
They don't quite get it.
You have to go in and explain deeper.
You also want to allocate time in most situations for questions and answers.
So if you're told you've got an hour, I wouldn't prepare 60 minutes worth of content, I would prepare
40 minutes of content and leave time for questions and leave some time for spontaneity and the ability
to go into more detail based on what the audience says.
Now, there are several ways of managing your time when you're in the middle of a presentation.
For starters, most cell phones have a timer function.
You can get a timer app, so you can have that in fairly large font sitting on a table, a lectern near
you.
You could do what I do.
I simply remove my watch and I put it on a table so I can glance down if they're not clocks around.
Here's the thing.
If you speak often enough and I recommend that you try to speak every opportunity you can, you won't
be as nervous when you're not nervous, you won't lose track of time.
If you're completely nervous and feeling tense, that's when you lose all perspective of time.
You can think you're talking for ten minutes and it's really been 50.
Or you can think you've been talking for 50 minutes and you look down and you've been speaking for seven
minutes and you've got to somehow fill up the next 53 minutes and that's when panic occurs.
You don't want that to happen.
So practice, rehearse on video and also have eyesight to clocks, watches or timers.
Do that and you'll be in good shape.
Also remember, though, if you speak and you finish a little bit early, but you've really delivered
the goods, you've given people great content and answer their questions, nobody's going to get upset
if you only took 25 minutes and they told you you had 30 minutes.

--- Become the Master of the Short Story ---

Typically when you are part of a panel discussion, you're not using PowerPoint slides.
There's not the time for everyone to get up and shuffle computers around and the sticks.
And so you have to simply talk to people in a way that's interesting and understandable.
So get rid of that crutch.
If that happens to be a crutch for you, you've got to be able to make the point and to make it come
alive.
Now, the number one way of doing that is by telling stories.
Don't think of it as something theatrical or difficult.
Oh, I never tell a story.
Every human being tells stories.
Somebody does something obnoxious to you.
You probably retell that to a family member later that day or you complain to someone.
We all tell stories and you've got to be effective at doing that.
When you're on a panel discussion, don't give yourself the out of, well, it's just a panel discussion.
There's no time.
It would take ten minutes to tell a story.
Now you can tell a story in 20s if you want to, but your focus is always got to be not just making
an intellectual point, but how to illustrate it to make it memorable.
You're not going to be able to put up PowerPoint slides.
Most likely, unlikely.
You can give handouts in the middle of a panel discussion.
You probably aren't going to be able to walk around and engage the audience and ask them questions.
You simply have to say it in an interesting, memorable way.
So start thinking about how you can illustrate your key points with stories, and I'll give you more
instructions on that in the next lecture.

--- How to Make Your Presentation Memorable Public Speaking ---

So how do you make a presentation memorable?
There are two main ways.
The first is you've got to have compelling, interesting stories, not made up stories, not stories
from a book, but stories about your actual conversations with real people, colleagues, clients,
customers, family members, stories that relate to the message that's important to your audience.
The next thing is you have to bring some passion to this subject.
Those are the two things that people remember over and over again.
As I ask clients from six continents, from all over the world, what speeches do you remember?
What do you remember about them?
That's what I hear again and again.
Interesting stories.
The passion someone had for their subject matter.
That's what will make your speech memorable.
What's going to not make your speech memorable is having all the bullet points.
Just so having the logo perfectly centered on your PowerPoint, that's not going to do it.
You've got to have these compelling stories and deliver it in a way where you're reliving the emotion.
So, for example, I don't tell somebody, Oh, I've been on thousands of talk shows and some have been
difficult.
That's abstract.
Or I don't just say that.
I then tell a story about the time I was down in Florida on a talk radio show, political show, and
the host pulls a gun on me on the air, and I was scared out of my mind.
Now, to find out more details, you'll have to listen to more of these videos.
But that's a story people remember once I flesh out more details.

--- Other Tips to Make You Great - Sitting Standing Notes ---

Let's talk about some of the logistics when you're on a panel.
Now, you've seen in many cases where there's a table, a microphone on the table, every couple of
feet.
Sometimes if there's six panelists, they may share three microphones.
Here's what a lot of people do.
There's a table in front of them.
So they put their hands on it and they lean down.
And what's happening there is it just makes you look sloppy, slumped over, kind of bored.
It makes everything wrinkled, too, and it robs you of your energy.
So if you're sitting at a table and there are microphones there, what I recommend is you do not touch
the table with your hands and arms when you're speaking.
I recommend hold yourself up high, lean forward and be gesturing, moving your hands when you speak.
That's what I recommend doing.
Don't slump over Now.
Another scenario is directors chairs.
I've seen this at many, many conferences.
Everyone's on a director's chair and depending on how long you have, if it's an opening five minutes
statement, what I would do is just get up and then walk in sort of a square of 2 to 3ft.
You can get better eye contact.
You get more people focusing on you, eye contact back at you.
There is more variety and you appear much more confident.
Now, I wouldn't do that every single time when there's question and answer session and people are giving
20 and 32nd answers, I would stay seated for that.
But if there's one point at the beginning when it's understood you have a good five minutes, I would
actually stand because it just conveys confidence.
It shows you're serious about it and it works very well.
So I do want you to be comfortable with how you're standing, how you're sitting.
Another scenario is there's a lectern.
Panelists are sitting down and when it's their turn to talk, they get up behind the lectern.
I need you to use your judgment here on the room size and the audio.
If you're speaking to 500 people and there's a microphone at the lectern, you're going to have to get
close to that microphone.
But I've also been in many conferences where there's only 25, 30 people in the room, so there's no
need to get behind the lectern to use that microphone.
The microphone might not even be on if there's only 25 people in the room.
When it's your turn to speak, just walk up, get as close as possible to the first row, speak to people,
and you'll come across as more genuine, more authoritative, more confident.
Now, a word about notes.
It just looks odd when you're sitting down and you have five minutes to sort of bury your head and be
reading.
You've robbed the audience of eye contact.
You don't seem very passionate about it and you don't seem like much of an expert.
The other thing that looks odd is having notes on a napkin.
I've seen that countless times because people say, Well, it's just a panel.
I'll just jot down something of the cocktail party beforehand that doesn't send a level of seriousness.
I would recommend either no notes or my first choice have notes on a single sheet of paper, large font,
so you don't have to stop every two seconds and doing this stuff.
Extra large font, a single sheet of paper.
That way you can glance down occasionally using it as a roadmap.
There's a certain particular number that's really important or big concept you want to stress.
It's right there on your single sheet of paper, but it's not a big stack of papers where people are
expecting five minutes and they see this and their first reaction, Oh my gosh, this person's going
to go way over the time limit.
Now you need your notes on a single sheet of paper, which, by the way, that's what great speakers
do, even if they're talking for an hour, they keep the notes on a single sheet.
So I want you to go ahead and prepare your notes for this panel discussion.
For the purposes of this exercise, let's assume you have five minutes to give opening comments on the
discussion that everyone's gathered here to discuss.
So have just comments for five minutes, single sheet of notes with large font and also get ready to
give your presentation as a part of the panel based on how you've set the dynamics.
Will you be sitting or standing?

--- Public Speaking Rules You Should Never Break Public Speaking ---

What are some of the top rules you should never break when giving a speech or presentation?
One rule never read a speech.
The hardest thing you could ever do is read a speech without completely boring people to death.
Unless you are a trained actor and a really good trained actor, if you try to read a speech, it destroys
your eye contact.
It makes your voice flat, boring, monotone, and too consistent in speed and pitch and volume.
So whatever you do, don't try to read a speech.
The next thing, don't try to read PowerPoint slides.
Turning your back to the audience.
They can see the back of your head and you're reading a bunch of slide.
Horrible thing to do.
People hate it and they're simply going to ignore you.
Next thing, don't ever apologize for your speech.
Oh, I'm sorry.
I wish I had more time to prepare.
I'm sorry I didn't have the right stuff.
Don't apologize about your speech.
Simply give the best speech you can.
Next.
Don't go on too long.
Now, it's not true that you have to speak three minutes or that shorter is always better.
But if you're budgeted a half an hour and you're still talking at 50 minutes, that's a big problem
for everybody, even if you have interesting content.
So don't violate the amount of time you have allocated for your presentation.
The final thing is don't just do a data dump.
Don't try to cram as many facts and figures and numbers into your speech because you are guaranteed
not to communicate.
People are going to tune you out.
They will not remember anything.
So there are a lot of do's and don'ts you can avoid and still be successful.
But you've got to avoid the biggest blunders common in many, many speaking disasters.

--- Look at Panelists ---

Now, the etiquette is a little bit odd when you're on a panel because it's not like when you're in
a large room and it's your turn to speak and you're introduced and you get up and people are looking
at you then, but not other times.
If you're on a panel discussion and the person next to you or two down is speaking, you're still in
the spotlight.
A lot of people forget that.
So someone else is speaking and the one panel is sort of looking at notes, doodling, looking down.
It looks rude.
It sends a message, hey, if I'm not speaking, I don't really care what anyone else has to say.
I'm so important and I couldn't possibly learn from this other person.
It's sending a negative message.
You're in the spotlight even though you're not speaking.
So my recommendation is it's okay to have notes.
Should be a single sheet, but don't be looking at them when someone else is speaking.
My recommendation.
Look at the person speaking.
A It's polite.
You won't be distracting people.
B People who do look at you looking at the speaker will form the impression that you're paying attention.
You care.
You're trying to learn, too.
You're open to new ideas.
These are all good things.
So do keep in mind, even when you're not speaking, the spotlight is on you.
So pay attention to the other speakers, look polite, at least pretend to listen.
And who knows, you might learn something.
The other reason you want to do that is a good panel, has interaction, has debate.
So you need to really be in the moment listening so you can react.
Now, depending on the style of the panel, the moderator may want you to engage, engage in actual
debate and interrupting people occasionally, and I wouldn't overdo it.
You don't want to be seen as rude, but you've got to really listen to what other people say so that
you can incorporate that into your argument and to your rebuttal.
Great panels are not just five independent people coming and giving their presentations and ignoring
people.
There is some engagement.
There's some disagreement.
Sometimes there's some synergy building on the ideas.
So you've got to be in the moment.
You've got to listen.
You don't want to seem like you're just phoning it in and ignoring everything else.
So be in the moment.
Listen, if you want to take notes to rebut something, that's okay.
Just don't be writing your grocery list and other people can see or be doodling.
That's going to be obvious to spot.
So listen carefully so that you can reference what other arguments were when you have another time to
speak.
Depending on the format, that is essential.
Because if it's just you and your ideas every time and it seems like you're ignoring it, that's not
good.
But you don't want to go overboard.
You don't want to spend 2.5 minutes out of your five minutes saying, Well, I agree with what Sam said
and I agree with what Sally said.
Don't waste valuable time agreeing with people.
If you want to focus on one thing somebody said that you think is counter to conventional wisdom and
a really important point that you also that's okay, but don't waste time just agreeing with people.
So listen carefully.
Add to what is said.

--- How Long Should My Speech Be Public Speaking ---

How long should my speech be and how can I be more concise?
Let me stop you right there.
Your goal shouldn't ever be to be concise.
Your goal should be communicating ideas that are important to you, interesting and relevant to your
audience, and doing so in a way that's actually memorable.
That should be the goal.
So take as much time as you need for that.
Now, there was a study done in 1974 by the US Defense Department that said the perfect length of a
speech was 17.5 minutes.
Personally, I find that complete, utter baloney because we've all seen people who speak for two minutes
and everyone's asleep.
On the other hand, I've seen speakers talk from ten in the morning till midnight.
The audience wanted more.
Why?
Because they were consistently interesting.
So I would be careful about trying to pigeonhole your speech into a specific time amount.
Now, there may be times when you're told you have exactly 20 minutes, you're at a financial conference,
you're told you have exactly 25 minutes and five minutes for Q and A, and you've got to stick to it.
But there are plenty of times in real life where you're talking to your own employees, colleagues and
new business pitch people may have traveled to come see you set up a meeting and it took them an hour
to get there and an hour to get back.
They're going to listen to you.
They're not sitting there with a stopwatch for three minutes.
And the most important thing is that you actually communicate your ideas in an interesting way.
So remember, the choice isn't between being really, really boring for a long period of time versus
really boring for two minutes, if that's the only choice.
Yeah, better to be boring for two minutes.
But there is another option and that is to be incredibly interesting.
Memorable for the amount of time you need to convey your ideas.
So rather than worry about being concise or speaking just for five minutes, focus your on your ideas.
Make sure they're interesting and memorable.
The time will often take care of itself.

--- Record Actual Presentation ---

By now you may have deduced I'm a fan of videotaping panel discussions, your rehearsal presentations
of all sorts.
I'm going to ask you to do it one other place, and that is the actual presentation you give as a part
of this panel in front of the real audience.
Now, you don't have to hire a big TV production crew or make a big deal out of it, but you can simply
hand your cell phone to a friend, a colleague, make a new friend on the front row and say, Hey,
do you mind just videotaping a few parts?
My opening comments and as much as it'll take before it shuts down.
Do that and then you can watch how you did in real life.
Because sometimes how you did in rehearsal is very different from how you did in real life.
Maybe the nerves got to you and you started speaking quickly again.
You need to know that.
On the other hand, sometimes you're much better in real life because you can feed off the energy of
the room.
You can really look at people.
Maybe someone asked you a question and you gave a profoundly interesting, memorable anecdote.
If you have that on video, it's really helpful.
It will reinforce the things you did well.
The real key to being a great panel presenter is to learn from every panel presentation you ever give.
The best way to learn is to watch the video, figure out what worked well so you can do it again.
Great speakers are great.
Not because they were born that way or it's a natural talent.
Quite often they're great because they speak a lot and they learn a teeny little bit from every presentation
they give.
Martin Luther King Junior in his year that he gave the I Have a Dream speech, spoke 300 times that
year.
Ronald Reagan gave nearly the same speech hundreds of times a year from 1964 until he was elected president
in 1980.
Bill Clinton, seen by many as a great public speaker, gets attention for major speeches like the Democratic
conventions, but they don't realize he's still giving 300 speeches a year.
So part of it is speak on as many panels as you can.
And the other part is get video of yourself every time so you can learn from it.
Great comedians still record their sets on stage so they can learn.
You can learn to record every panel presentation you're on.

--- Tell ’em what I’m gonna tell ’em, tell ’em, Public Speaking ---

You've heard the old axiom.
Tell him what you're going to tell him.
Tell him and tell him what you told him.
But is it true?
Is it effective?
You've heard this so-called speaking law.
I've heard it for years.
However, I don't have any evidence to suggest it's really effective.
If you doubt me, ask yourself the following question How many exit doors are there on a 747 or a 747?
Now, if you travel a great deal, chances are you've been told this hundreds of times because the airline
attendant will always tell you, please pay, you know, here's how you fasten a seat belt, blah,
blah, blah, blah.
In case of emergency landing, there are X number of exit doors.
Here's the problem.
Any time I ask a group of people that ten people, I get ten different answers.
Everyone doesn't really remember.
They have to guess.
They guessed differently.
Here's my point.
You've been told that message of how many exit doors there are numerous, numerous times, but because
of the manner in which it's told boring, straightforward, perfunctory, no passion, conveyer belt
of data, it goes in one ear and out the other.
And that's my challenge to you.
If you're giving a presentation, if you are boring and straightforward and you don't have stories and
you don't have examples, you can tell people what you're going to tell them.
You can tell them.
You can tell them what you told them.
It won't make any difference.
They're still not going to remember what you said.
You're far better off telling somebody one idea one time, but to do it in a way that's truly memorable,
that has an interesting example, a case study, a compelling story.
Tell them one time in a compelling way.
They may remember it for a lifetime.
Tell them three times in a speech and it's boring and they won't remember it three seconds later.

--- Conclusion for Speaking on Panels ---

We've come a long way together.
If you have done the exercises and actually practiced your panel presentation on video to the point
where you like it, you're going to be in great shape.
I have absolute confidence in you.
If you're now happy with it, it's going to be good.
But I do want to leave you with that one last special tip, that secret ingredient that can make the
difference sometimes.
And here it is.
Have fun.
When you look at the best panelist at major trade associations conferences, even in your own organization,
the people who sparkle, it's not just what they say, it's that they're exuding the sense that they're
having fun with this.
There's a certain joy.
There's no place in the world they'd rather be than with their fellow panelists, their their fellow
experts talking about this subject.
Part of it is just a smile on the face when it's appropriate.
Part of it is just the energy and the excitement they bring to it.
This isn't just drudgery.
Let's face it.
A lot of people have awful jobs and they're digging ditches somewhere.
And you get to be on a panel talking about ideas.
This is exciting.
This is fun.
So anything you can do to demonstrate that you're having fun, to show your passion in a way that's
authentic and real, not just rah rah, cheer cheer, but in an authentic way.
It's going to be contagious and it's going to increase the odds that people focus on you, listen to
you focus on your message, remember your message, and come away with a positive impression of you.
Good luck on all your panel discussions.

--- How do I know what messages and topics will be Public Speaking ---

So how do you know what messages, what topics, What subtopics are going to be of the greatest interest
to your audience?
I have a radical suggestion for you.
Just pick up the phone and ask them if you're giving a presentation to 50 people at a trade conference
on Friday.
Call 1 or 2 of them and just ask them what they think People would be interested.
Ask them what they're interested in, and you can perhaps list 20 ideas.
See which 3 or 4 jump out at them.
You know, this day of information being so accessible and everyone Googling everything and going to
Wikipedia, people often forget the simplest way to get information sometimes is just pick up that phone
and have a brief three four minute conversation with someone.
Now, if you are leading some kind of a seminar and you have a database of people who are supposed to
be there, you can also send out a questionnaire in advance.
List your 20 possible messages or topics subthemes.
Ask people to list 3 or 4 they're most interested in or put them in priority.
Also have an open ended question.
Ask them what you would like or what they would like you to address.
Your best source of information quite often is your actual audience.
You can't wait till you're in front of them and ask them, but you can communicate in advance.
It's not hard to do.
Email posted on a blog for comments or just pick up the phone.

--- How to Prepare a Speech Public Speaking ---

How to prepare a speech.
In a nutshell, do the following.
Brainstorm on every message you could say to this audience on the topic at hand.
Narrow it down to the top five.
Brainstorm on a story or two and an example for each message point.
Come up with a fact or a number for each message point.
Then have a simple one page outline that has no more than 3 or 4 words per line.
Then practice the speech on video.
It can be your own cell phone.
Keep practicing until you like it.
If you do that, you will be ahead of 95% of the public speakers in the world.

--- Learn the Secret of Great Elevator Pitches ---

So when I say an elevator pitch, all I really mean is a relatively brief presentation where you're
trying to communicate one idea.
Typically that idea is there's one thing great about you or that you can do that would make it worthwhile
for this person to sit and meet with you.
So you could be pitching a venture capitalist on why you have a great idea at a great startup that should
be funded and you want a formal meeting.
You could be pitching someone on the idea of hiring you at their company.
You could be pitching someone on the idea of why they need to donate money to your favorite charity.
But the point is, it's a brief amount of time.
There's no PowerPoint in the elevator.
There's no time for holding up a bunch of props or handing out PDFs or other handouts, and it might
not actually be in the elevator.
The idea is that it's a brief presentation and that it might be unplanned.
It could be.
You just bumped into someone at a meeting coming out of a meeting at a conference somewhere.
It doesn't have to be in an elevator, but it's useful to think of an elevator in terms of, okay,
I'm getting in at the first floor and I've got 15, 20, maybe 30s till this person gets off on the
fifth floor, 10th floor or 15th floor.
So it is helpful to frame your thoughts as far as being on an elevator and just not having enough time.
So that's what we're going to focus on in this course.
How to make a brief presentation where the goal is getting people to then want to meet with you to have
a more in-depth conversation.
That's it.
That's all an elevator pitch is.
So let's hop right in.

--- How to Pace a Speech Public Speaking ---

So how do you pace a speech or a presentation?
The biggest problem most people have is they get a little nervous.
They start speaking too quickly.
And when you speak too quickly, it tends to flatten out your voice.
It essentially destroys the punctuation of speaking.
If you're reading a book, you have certain cues to your eye.
A comma means a pause, a period, a longer pause, a paragraph break, a longer pause, an actual chapter
and a white sheet of paper in between is an even longer break.
But when you're speaking, if everything sort of comes out.
Here's my next data point.
It's like reading one big run on sentence with no punctuation.
You could do it, but it's a lot of work.
So you need to put in pauses.
You need to catch your breath.
Sometimes you can do this by walking a few feet, not saying anything.
You need to look at audience members and see are you getting it?
Sometimes toss out a question to the audience.
Actually have them answer it.
Sometimes you toss out a question and it's simply a rhetorical question and you let people think about
what you said.
You need pausing throughout your speech and you need variation in speed and tone.
Sameness is what kills a speech.
Consistency is what kills a speech.
People think, Oh, I'm being very professional.
Everything's even keeled.
No, you don't want to be even keeled.
You want to be conversational.
That means sometimes faster, sometimes slower, sometimes louder, sometimes softer.
And sometimes a pause is what's most effective.
That's how you pace your speech.

--- Accomplish Your Goals After You Deliver Your Pitch ---

It's important when planning your elevator pitch to really keep a focus on what your goal is.
Your goal is not to make the sale.
Your goal is not to walk out of an elevator with a $50 Million check.
Your goal is an agreement from that person for a meeting.
That is.
That's it.
Whether it is for a job interview, whether it's for a formal meeting to request venture capital funding.
But the goal is just to make the person see, okay, what this person saying has value.
This person seems credible.
This person passed the smell test of someone.
I would want to spend 10 or 15 or 20 minute meeting with.
That's it.
Once you convince yourself that you're trying to make the whole sale in that elevator or talk really
quickly to cover all the facts, you will have destroyed your elevator pitch.
So that is the first goal I need you to even write.
It sounds childish, but I need you to write it down.
Goal to get a meeting to discuss my new venture or to get a job in it.
Whatever your goal is, whatever the type of meeting is, I need you to write that down and to be focused
on it, because otherwise it's too easy to sort of have this elevator pitch morph into a general presentation
or a general pitch.
And that's simply not what an elevator pitch is.
So write down your goals now.

--- How to Close a Speech Public Speaking ---

How do you close a speech?
The worst thing you can do with a speech is just sort of finish abruptly.
That's it.
Any questions?
Act like you're nervous and scurry off the stage or away from the front of the room.
Now, you don't have to have some big overly dramatic ending.
You don't have to get down on bended knee.
You don't have to bring a tear to people's eyes.
But you do need to conclude with some finality.
Simply restate your main point or your main couple of points, or maybe even have a story that fleshes
out your main point.
Let people know exactly what you want them to do and to remember and finish on purpose.
Finish as though you planned it.
You don't want to be like a car that's going down the highway 70 miles an hour and simply runs out of
gas.
Clunk, clunk, clunk.
That's what many speeches seem like.
You want to sum up a big main point.
Stop, pause.
Step back, wait a second or two, and then say, I'll be happy to take questions if there's time for
that.
That way you'll come across as polished like you've put thought into it.
It leaves a good final taste in the mouth of your audience.
You'll be a much stronger closing.

--- You Will Focus on Your One Big Idea ---

When you're giving an elevator pitch, it's important to realize it's not a whole speech.
It's not a whole presentation.
You can't cover ten ideas, five ideas.
It's not even a Midi interview where you can typically try to focus on three message points.
It's an elevator pitch.
That means you need to focus on one idea.
What is your one big idea that you're going to hold up in front of someone, tantalize them to make
them want to bite into it, like holding a piece of cheese over a mouse?
What is that one idea you have that is going to really interest someone to make them want to take your
card or say Yes, please call me on Monday and set up an appointment or yes, stop by for an interview.
What is that one idea?
If you try to convey five ideas, it's as good as conveying nothing.
It will get lost.
So I need you to brainstorm right now on your own elevator pitch.
What is the one idea that you want to convey to someone?
What's the thing that's special about your business, about your job candidacy, or what it is you do
or your charity that's really, really important not only to you, but potentially to this person who
doesn't necessarily know you.
And by the way, this works even if you're at a networking event and everyone goes around the room and
introduces themselves for 20s, that's a type of an elevator pitch.
What is it you can say in that introduction to get people to remember you and want to talk to you?
Most people just go through the motions, whether it's on the elevator or at a networking event.
Hi, my name is this.
My title is this.
My organization is this.
We do insert something generic, vague and abstract.
May I talk to you more?
May I tell you more about my services?
That's boring.
It's not interesting.
It's not memorable.
And it doesn't stand out.
So, for example, if I'm at a networking event and I have an opportunity to stand up and give my elevator
pitch, I don't start off by saying, Hi, my name is TJ Walker.
I'm president of Media Training Worldwide.
I coach executives how to give effective speeches to live audiences and to the media.
And we have workshops and seminars and blah blah, blah, blah, blah.
That would put everybody to sleep.
So that's not how I would do it.
My elevator pitch is simply this.
Imagine the phone rings.
It's The New York Times.
They want to interview you about your business for the next half an hour.
Are you confident you would get the exact quotes you want in that story tomorrow?
That you would look and sound your best to the reporter?
Well, if not, it means you're normal.
That's what I help people do is prepare for media interviews.
If you give me your card at the end of this meeting, I'll give you a copy of my book, Media Training
A to Z to help you prepare for that media interview.
That's it.
Less than 30s.
I talked about a need of the people in the room or the metaphorical elevator.
I talked about a solution before I ever talked about my name and I talked about how I can give them
value now.
All in less than 30s.
So that's my elevator pitch.
Is it a perfect elevator pitch?
No, but it's a lot better than the standard name, rank and serial number that most people have.
So I need you don't worry about the wording or making it clever or the hook yet.
I need you to focus for now.
What's the one idea you have that you think is actually going to be interesting to this person you're
presenting to?
I need you to write it down in one sentence.
Well, jazz it up later, but for right now, I need you to really focus on the one idea that you think
if someone could really hear you, understand it and remember it, they would want to meet with you.
They'd want to take a meeting with you.
Write that idea down now.

--- How to Put Your Audience at Ease Public Speaking ---

What's the best way to put your audience at ease if you're giving a speech or presentation?
Now, you may be feeling a little nervous for your presentation, but also remember some of your audience
members are feeling, if not nervous, at least a little uncomfortable because they're thinking, Uh
oh, this could be really boring.
Or wow, maybe this person is so intimidating.
What if they call on me?
You don't want either one of those responses.
So for starters, make sure you have great, interesting content.
If they find you interesting throughout, they're going to be relaxed.
Also, try to get to the room early and actually have real conversations with people.
Show them that you care about them or their concerns.
You're not just the celebrity who hops off the helicopter to bestow your wisdom.
Get there early, ideally an hour early, and have real conversations with people.
Ideally, you can weave some of these conversations into your actual presentation.
That way people feel like they were a part of it.
You're not just giving something canned something off the shelf, you're tailoring your speech to them
their needs and you're listening to them.
That will make them feel much more comfortable.
The other thing is you got to realize you don't want your audience too comfortable because what happens
if people are really comfortable?
You don't want your audience falling asleep.
This can be a problem if there's theater style seating and people are two, three, five, ten, 20
rows back and they don't feel like you can really see them.
So the more you can walk around the room, get close to them.
If it's a big room, try to have a wireless microphone so you don't have to stay up on stage behind
a lectern because at some point if people feel like you can't see them, then they feel like they can
do anything.
And next thing you know, even if you're giving a good presentation and you've lost them.
So you want your audience comfortable but not too comfortable, they need to see that you can see them,
that you care about them and that you're trying to help them do that.
And their temperament will be exactly as you want it.
Not uncomfortable, but not asleep.

--- Never Confuse Your Prospect Again ---

Дьявол может быть в деталях, но это не тот случай, когда вы выигрываете в лифте, вы можете дать пару
деталей, но вы не можете сразу же перейти ко всем деталям вашего последнего приложения или программы.
Вы должны упростить.
Вы должны упрощать, упрощать, упрощать.
Вы должны точно определить, что именно вы делаете, что, по вашему мнению, должно заинтересовать
этого человека, и каковы его преимущества.
Не продолжайте рассказывать подробности.
Не надо продолжать и продолжать факты.
Если они заинтересовались, проявили интерес, возьмите их машину, отправьте им бизнес-план,
отправьте резюме, отправьте им резюме ваших услуг, но не перегружайте их слишком большим количеством информации.
Вы должны разбудить их аппетит, чтобы они захотели большего, чтобы, возможно, захотели встретиться с вами или прочитать ваше резюме
или бизнес-план.
Так что это требует большой дисциплины.
Часто люди так радуются своему новому бизнесу, проекту или благотворительности.
Кто-то сказал: "Я поговорю секундочку".
И они просто вываливают одну точку данных за другой.
Это слишком много.
Вам нужно действительно упростить его.
Теперь все немного запутано.
Иногда люди говорят: "Ну, это должно быть 30 секунд или 15 секунд".
Если вы находитесь на конференции, где есть кофе-брейк, и вы видите человека, которому
вы очень хотели сделать предложение, у вас может быть три или пять минут.
Вы должны судить о человеке, исходя из обстоятельств.
Если вы попали на первый этаж, а они на 100-й, у вас есть немного времени.
Если вы идете в одном направлении в аэропорту, у вас есть немного времени.
Поэтому всегда не спешите без необходимости.
Но также не пытайтесь говорить быстро и впихивать много деталей.
Вы всегда должны думать о том, как можно упростить ваше сообщение, чтобы дать человеку самое лучшее
из того, что у вас есть.
То есть они поняли самое главное и хотят большего.
Поэтому начните думать о том, как вы собираетесь сделать это с помощью своего лифта, потому что через минуту мы
будем практиковаться.
Для меня это не просто прослушивание лекций.
В теории, вы будете практиковаться снова и снова, и снова, и снова на видео, пока вам не понравится ваша elevator
pitch, пока вы не будете в восторге от встречи с вами.
Вот куда мы должны попасть.
Но сейчас сосредоточьтесь на упрощении и уточнении вашего сообщения, потому что я хочу,
чтобы вы составили сообщение, которое действительно длится около 30 секунд, хотя я прекрасно понимаю,
что могут быть случаи, когда у вас есть пятиминутный elevator pitch или 20 секунд, но для целей нашего планирования и упражнений
я хочу, чтобы вы начали думать в терминах 30-секундного сообщения.

--- How to Give a Formal Speech Public Speaking ---

Should I make my speech, a formal presentation or an informal presentation?
Folks, I'm here to tell you there is no such thing as a formal presentation or an informal presentation
or a PowerPoint presentation or a financial presentation.
There are only two types of presentations in the entire world.
Do you know what they are?
That's right.
It's either good or it's bad from the audience's perspective.
The only thing they're ever thinking is, Wow, this TJ, he's really boring.
I'm not really going to pay attention.
Let me check my email or James over here.
He's interesting.
Let me pay attention.
This is useful.
That's the only thing going on in your audience's mind.
So great speakers adopt the mindset of their audience, not the mindset of the speaker.
You've got to put yourself metaphorically in the chairs of your audience so you can experience this
as they do.
So here's the big problem.
When I hear someone ask about formal versus informal, once somebody tells themselves, Oh, I'm now
giving a formal speech, they tend to make their speech awful.
They tend to throw away examples, humor, case studies, interesting stories.
They tend to stop moving naturally.
They tend to literally stiffen up, stand behind a lectern, read a whole bunch of boring bullet points
on a PowerPoint.
Now, I'm not anti PowerPoint.
I use it all the time, but I don't use it in a so-called formal way.
I use it in an interesting, memorable way.
So everything you do for your audience needs to be looked at from the standpoint of is this interesting,
useful, and memorable to their audience?
Yes, I understand if you're with three friends having a beer, you may use curse words or certain language
you wouldn't use in a boardroom setting.
But beyond that, the things that make you interesting and informal conversation will also make you
interesting as a speaker.
So don't throw it away just because you now have to give a formal speech.

--- Role Models ---

The best writers in the world learn to write in part by reading lots of other good writers.
Great novelists spend their time reading lots of other great novels.
They don't just read their time.
They don't just spend their time reading comics or watching sports and never reading novels.
They immerse themselves in the world they want to excel in.
The same should be true of you.
When it comes to giving your elevator pitch, there are so many places where you can find great elevator
pitches.
I mean, there's a prime time show on NBC Shark Tank where you can and it's on CNBC, too, where you
can watch people giving pitches.
Now, they're a little bit longer than what most people consider elevator pitches, but some of them
are quite brief and you can learn a lot from it because always within the first minute you get a sense
of what their business is.
That's important.
You can go to other websites like ultralight startups has tons and tons of fantastic elevator pitches.
They're really brief.
They're less than three minutes of Internet startups here in New York City.
Just go to YouTube and type in elevator pitch and you'll see all kinds of examples.
So don't try to just come up with something from scratch in a vacuum.
Learn from what other people do.
Now, if there are people in your industry, you know, are good at it, research them, go to their
websites.
Don't copy anyone's style or say exactly what they're saying, but have influences.
If you spend hours and hours and hours looking at other people, give great elevator pitches, it's
going to rub off on you.
Some of it.
It's going to shape your thinking.
It's going to elevate your standards.
So before we really dive in here, I do want you to spend a little time finding some elevator pitch
role models.
So please do that.
Now, if nothing else, just go to YouTube and type in great elevator pitches.
See what you find, See what you like.

--- The 2 Key Questions You Must Answer ---

So I want you to keep refining your elevator pitch.
It's okay to write it down, but it's not because I want you to memorize it.
Memorizing things is difficult.
Number one.
Number two, it can make you sound artificial and contrived.
If you are trying to say something word for word and get it just right.
So okay to write it down.
But again, the goal is not memorization.
So I have two more tests for your elevator pitch that I want you to administer.
I want you to ask yourself from the standpoint of the person you're pitching, what's in it for me?
How is this really going to benefit me?
Because the person you're pitching already knows the downside.
The downside is if they act interested in what you're saying or they say, yes, you can come in and
waste an hour of their life that they might not ever get back.
You could be hounding them and emailing them and calling them, asking them for money and follow up
meetings for the next six months.
So anyone you're pitching has a very clear idea of the downside for even acting like they're interested
in you.
If they own a large company and you know that they hire a lot of people and it's well known they're
constantly being hit on for giving my son this job, give my nephew, give my niece this job.
How about an internship?
Please hire this person.
They're constantly being badgered by people.
They're getting hit up by other elevator pitches all the time so they know the downside of acting.
Interested in what you're saying?
And in giving you more time or saying yes to a meeting, they don't yet know what the upside is.
So I need you very quickly, like in the first 15 seconds, address some benefit for them.
And I also need you to somehow convey what's different.
What's interesting about this, I mean, if you're a venture capitalist, you can just open up your
email every day and there are hundreds of people pitching you business plans and sending you email requests.
If you own your own company and it's a sizable company, you're going to have people sending you resumes
every single day.
So the fact that you want a job or that you want money is an interesting because people who are receiving
elevator pitches hear that all day long, every day.
So I need you to give some real thought to what is it you have to say That's interesting.
A little different.
Doesn't have to be wildly funny.
You don't have to have some app that's going to create world peace and solve the energy crisis, but
you've got to have something interesting.
This person who doesn't know you is not obligated to give you their time, to give you their attention,
to give you their eyeballs, to give you anything they're not obligated to, that they could, in fact,
just walk by.
So I need you to really give some serious thought.
What's in it for them?
How have you positioned something you're saying that they will perceive as a benefit to them?
And what do you have to say?
That's interesting and that seems credible.
So really think about those two questions and and rework your elevator pitch because we are going to
be practicing very soon.

--- Give Someone a Reason to Want More from You ---

Every elevator pitch is a little bit different.
There are times when you already kind of know the person.
It's not just a random 10s bumping into them in the elevator, but they haven't granted you 30 minutes
on their calendar either.
But you can perhaps go into a little more detail and let them know, Hey, I'm sending you the business
plan.
Perhaps we can discuss it later.
There may be times like that when it's appropriate, but there are other times when you may have just
met someone.
They're in a hurry.
You've given your elevator pitch.
There's some interest, but they're not exactly stopping and pulling out their calendar saying, Can
you meet for a whole hour next Thursday?
What do you do?
That doesn't seem pushy.
Now, if you're in Hollywood, I wouldn't recommend saying, here's my entire script.
People hate that.
I wouldn't give someone a whole book either.
People don't really want to lug around a whole bunch of stuff.
But I do think a business card shows your professional whether you're a job seeker or whether you have
a startup and you're looking for investment capital.
But sometimes it helps to give a little bit extra.
So if I'm at, for example, a public relations conference and having a quick chat with someone who
has clients who go on TV all the time, I can say, Hey, how would you like a quick top ten list of
things to do right before you go on a TV interview to prepare yourself and your clients?
Something to keep in the wallet to really help right before that interview.
Sure.
Who's going to say no to that?
Boom.
I've got a business card that's got ten tips on things to do right before you go on TV to prepare to
come across your very best.
It just so happens to be my business card with my name and address.
All the usual stuff.
So rather than just giving someone a business card, which benefits me, I've given them some information
that can benefit them.
And when I combine that with something else, I might have said, it just increases the chances that
A, they remember me.
B If I do connect with them through a phone call or an email, that there's a sense of already provided
value.
So sure, it's worth spending a little more time with this person.
Now the business card with extra information on the back is just one tip.
I'm not suggesting that's the only way to go.
And for certain audiences, you might actually be able to give them some.
Maybe it's a thumbnail with a website already on it.
You decide, but don't make it too big and bulky and no one wants to carry around stuff, especially
if they're at a conference and they're traveling and no one wants to carry about more stuff.
But think about something you can give away to the person that demonstrates your expertise and that
gives value.
And that's why I wouldn't suggest a resume.
Now, we've all been to business networking events, and you meet some bright young student who just
graduated.
They have their resume.
It's not the end of the world.
But if you're leaving that networking event and going out to dinner in other places, who wants to really
carry around extra sheets of paper?
I would suggest providing something that is smaller and provides value.
So think about what you can give to the person if and only if they do seem interested in what you're
saying and would like more information or a taste of something before they actually agree to a meeting.
So think of what you can actually give them that's small and light.

--- How to Speak with Confidence Public Speaking ---

How can you learn how to speak with confidence?
You hear this all the time.
People want confident speakers.
Oh, she was so confident.
But what happens if you're about to stand up to speak and instead of feeling confident, you're feeling
scared, Nervous, uncomfortable, tentative?
Well, let me tell you, the number one way of gaining confidence when you speak, and that is to practice
in advance on video and then watch the video and then to keep doing it until you like the speech, till
you can point to a video of your own speech and say, Wow, that person looks really confident.
I'd love to speak half as well as that person.
And you're speaking to a video.
Speaking about a video of yourself.
That's how you know you're confident and that will give you everything you need in order to get through
your presentation.
Let's step back a minute.
What makes people not have confidence?
It's because you just don't know how you're coming across.
S You have doubts.
You're not certain you're thinking, Hmm, maybe I'll be really boring.
Well, guess what?
You might be really boring.
What if nobody understands me?
Well, maybe people can't understand you because you're speaking so softly or so quickly.
All of those things are very easy to test.
All you have to do get your phone out and record yourself or a webcam or any other video recording device.
So if you're lacking confidence, chances are there's a good reason.
It's because you haven't done your due diligence.
If I said to you, dictate a memo, send it to every important client, your boss, your board of directors.
Oh, and by the way, you're not allowed to spell check the memo.
You're not allowed to test for grammar.
You can't make it look pretty.
You've got to just dictate it and send it out.
Wouldn't that make you nervous?
Of course it would, because you wouldn't have been able to refine it to eliminate the major defects.
But it's exactly the same thing with speaking and with speaking.
It's not about the text and rewriting and running it through grammar check and spell check.
It's about you actually seeing that person.
In this case, you speak and doing it in a way where you know you're coming across your best.
Now nothing's foolproof.
Some of you may be looking at me saying, Well, I don't like this guy's style.
I don't like the way he uses his hands and I don't like his beady eyes.
You know what?
It just doesn't bother me because I've seen myself talk on this very subject numerous times in other
videos.
And I'm confident that this is how I want to come across that I really can't do any better than the
way I'm doing right now.
So I couldn't be nervous even if I tried.
You can be completely confident too.
You just have to practice on video till you like what you see.

--- Watch Bad Elevator Pitches ---

I mentioned earlier that one of the things you should do to become great at elevator pitches is to study
great elevator pitches.
Go to YouTube, Google great elevator pitches and see what you see.
But I also want you to learn what not to do.
And fortunately, the world is filled with bad elevator pitches.
So I want you to see what other people do.
So if, for example, you're at some kind of angel investing event and people are standing up giving
their elevator pitches, really listen to them, watch them, how are they coming across?
How do they look?
How do they sound?
If you're at some sort of a networking event, people are standing up and introducing themselves.
Listen to that.
If you have other friends who are in a position where they get pitched frequently, ask them what they
don't like.
Here is, in my experience, what most people do wrong with their elevator pitch is all they do is talk
about me, me, me.
Hi, my name is this.
I want this.
I do this.
I want your time.
I want this.
And it's just not interesting.
It's me, me, me, me, me, not you.
Here's how I can help you.
And it's.
Hi, my name is TJ Walker.
I'm a senior partner at the firm of X, Y, and Z, and we handle litigation and commercial and this
and that and civil this.
And we do a full panoply of all legal services.
And so if you need legal services, please consider our firm.
Well, guess what?
That just described a million lawyers in the United States.
So there's nothing interesting there.
There's no benefit to me.
And it's just generic.
It's abstract, it's fuzzy, and it falls with a thud.
So you've heard me say that, but I want you to develop an ear and an eye for bad pitches.
It's like anything else.
If you're constantly analyzing the world, looking for something, it just shapes your whole being and
you get better at it.
If you're constantly looking for the good elevator pitches, as we've talked about earlier, and you're
not copying them, but you're letting that influence you, but you're also looking for the bad elevator
pitches, you're letting that influence you to by not doing it.
So the people who seem scared or stiff and you're worried about them, that's not going to work.
The people who don't even look someone in the eye, that doesn't work and the people who just give the
name, rank and Serial my name, my title, my organization, and here are all the services we do,
that never works.
It just doesn't generate more interest.
So whatever you do, avoid the basic blunders people make.
And it's pretty easy to avoid those basic mistakes if you just give a little thought.
Plus follow the lessons we've discussed in this course.
It's easy to avoid that.
So become a connoisseur of elevator pitches, the good ones and the bad ones.
It will make you better.

--- What to Do if You Don't Like Your Voice Public Speaking ---

So what do you do if you simply do not like the sound of your own voice?
I get a lot of criticism for my advice on this topic, but I'm just going to give you the straight advice.
And those of you who hate me for it, fine.
You're going to hate me for it.
My advice is essentially, get over it.
Your voice isn't that bad.
Here's my experience, and I've worked with more than 10,000 clients from six continents for the last
30 years.
Most people don't like the sound of their own voice.
Here's why.
When you're hearing your voice come back to you through a speaker because you're watching a video of
yourself on TV or on a cell phone from a voice mail, you're hearing your voice in a relatively non
distorted way compared to how you normally hear your voice.
You normally hear your voice distorted through the bones in your skull and in your nasal cavities in
your mouth.
So you're hearing your voice all day long in a very distorted way.
So when you hear your voice coming through speakers, yeah, there's still some distortion, but it's
actually much closer to how you sound in real life to everyone else.
So it's not that your voice is bad or awful, it's just that you're not used to hearing your voice and
it's jarring.
Imagine if you are used to looking at yourself in the mirror and you always see one face and now you
see somebody on video, that's you.
And it's a completely different face.
Might not be an ugly face.
It's just weird.
That's kind of what it's like.
There are basically three types of voices in the world, and I'm making these statistics up generally
to make a point.
Don't ask for the research, but in my view, less than 0.001% of speakers have voices so great that
they can roll out of bed, go do a TV or radio commercial voice over, get their million dollar check,
go home, go back to bed.
There's also roughly 0.001% of voices that are so awful people hear the voice and they want to run out
of the room or jump out the window.
Everybody else, far in excess of 99%, have voices that are just voices.
Not so great.
People are going to pay a bunch of money, not so awful that it drives people away.
My voice is in that category now.
Some people like my voice, some don't.
No one's willing to pay me a ton of money just for my voice.
And no one wants to run out of the room simply hearing me say something.
They might not like what I say, but it's not the tone of my voice.
Chances are you are exactly like that, that your voice simply isn't as bad as you think.
Now, if you truly have some kind of a lisp, a speech impediment, you may want to see a speech therapist.
If you have a nasal problem where your nasal cavities are clogged and that's causing certain problems
and giving you a nasal twang, yeah, maybe you need surgery, but if I were you, I would be far more
interested in actually having something interesting to say when you speak, because that's a problem
we can solve.
I mean, let's say your voice isn't great if you have something truly interesting and memorable to say
when you speak, you're going to be in good shape.
Barbara Walters doesn't have a great voice.
She's made hundreds of millions of dollars over the years by speaking.
And yet there are people with great voices who are homeless.
So I know that some of you are going to be dissatisfied because you want some magic little tip to make
yourself sound like you have this golden voice.
And I'm here to tell you it's probably not your problem at all.

--- Conclusion to How to Deliver Elevator Pitches ---

Thanks for being a part of this course on how to deliver an elevator pitch.
It's a fantastic skill to have.
You need it and will be able to use it throughout life.
I hope you've taken away a few basic concepts here, which is focus on something interesting you have
to say that will be seen as an instant benefit to the person you're pitching.
Really simplify it, get to the point quickly and focus on one idea.
Don't try to educate the person on every single thing your business or your organization does.
Focus on one thing, whet their appetite, and don't lose sight of the goal.
The goal is to get an actual meeting.
So you can go into much more detail because that's where the real sell will take place.
That's where you'll get the contract done.
It's not all going to happen in that 30s So please don't forget the most important tip of all, and
that is to practice your elevator pitch on video until you love it.
I think I know lots about public speaking and presenting and elevator pitches, but you actually know
the most about what works for you, what you like and what you don't like.
And that's why I'd strongly recommend Don't Give an elevator pitch until you practiced it on video and
you like it.
Do that.
You'll be in great shape.
Good luck with all of your elevator pitches in life.

--- How to Start a Speech with an Icebreaker Public Speaking ---

So how do you start a speech with an icebreaker?
The main thing is you can't seem overly manipulative of people.
You shouldn't start off with how many of you would like to make more money?
Because that seems cheesy.
It seems like you're just overtly manipulating people.
I also don't like it when certain motivational speakers say, Well, turn to the person next to you
and tell them your five greatest aspirations in life and why you haven't succeeded.
That's just too personal.
You've got to make it relevant to who you are, what you're about, what you're trying to convey.
So if, for example, you are someone who helps people with their elevator speech, you may just want
to ask people as an icebreaker, turn to the person next to you and tell them in 30s what you do for
a living and then ask a couple of people, okay, What did your partner say?
That could be an interesting way of getting people to talk.
Getting them to think about the concepts you're going to be revealing today and engaging people in a
way that doesn't seem canned, phony, or overly manipulative.

--- How Many Slides to Put in a PowerPoint Presentation Public Speaking ---

So how many slides should you put on a PowerPoint presentation?
I know some of you want a very firm answer, like 7 or 10.
It's really not that simple.
Here's the bigger test I would give you.
For each slide you have, ask yourself, Does this slide make my idea more memorable than me simply
saying it?
And does this slide make my idea more understandable than simply saying it?
If you can't get a yes answer to both of those things, you should probably throw the slide away.
Now, having said that, I've seen people who only have 2 or 3 slides in a presentation, and the presentation
was awful because there was nothing interesting or memorable in the slides.
Nothing that enhanced it at all.
I've also seen speakers, well known sales expert Jeffrey Gitomer, for example.
I've seen him give a presentation with 120 slides and it was a great presentation.
Now, it wasn't necessarily great because of the slides, but the slides didn't bring him down.
Your focus should not be the number of slides.
Your focus should be what are the ideas you have to communicate to this audience now?
How can you use every tool possible to make these ideas more understandable, more memorable?
One tool is by telling a story.
Another tool giving an example.
Another tool.
A handout before or after the presentation.
Another tool is a visual that you display and a PowerPoint slide.
Another tool could be a prop.
So focus on what the real goal is.
Communicating your ideas.
Then use all the tools available.
If you do that, the number of slides will take care of themselves.

--- Focus on Exactly What You Want Your Audience to Do ---

The first thing I want you to do is to write down what is the one thing that you actually want people
to do who listen to this presentation?
Are you trying to get them to purchase something from you?
Recommend something.
Approve a budget.
You need to have a clear, clear laser focus on the outcome.
Don't get lost in all the weeds.
Don't get worried about all the charts of quarterly earnings for the last ten years.
Focus right now on the one thing that you want your audience to do after you give your presentation.
Write it down now.

--- How Many Bullet Points Should Be on a PowerPoint Slide Public Speaking ---

How many bullet points should you put on each PowerPoint slide?
It's a frequent question, and there are a lot of people who have very specific ironclad rules.
3 or 5.
I think you're missing the point when asking that question.
The real question should be what ideas do you have and how can you communicate it more effectively to
your audience?
How can you make your ideas more understandable and more memorable?
In all of my research and testing audiences all over the world.
Bullet points with text on PowerPoint slides that you project while speaking are completely ineffective.
So it frankly doesn't really matter.
Now if you're emailing people a PowerPoint or giving it as a handout later, Fine.
Put as many bullet points up as you want because people can read at their own speed.
If it's interesting, they can reread it, they can highlight it, they can file it away, reference
it again.
But when you are speaking and you're standing up in front of people and you're pointing to a whole bunch
of text and bullet points behind you, you're asking people to read while you're talking to them, while
you're distracting them.
That's not how people like to read in real life.
So I would recommend not actually using bullet points in the PowerPoint that you project find to use
them for the PowerPoint that you're emailing or handing out to people.
And if you are going to use bullet points and I can't dissuade you from that, then I would simply say
the fewer bullet points per page, the better off you are.

--- Stop This right Now! ---

So before we go any further, I've got to give you some top tips on what not to do.
I want to save you time, not waste your time.
And there's a whole bunch of ways to waste time if it's the night before a big speech.
For one thing, stop gathering more data.
You already have enough data to present to your audience.
You probably already have enough here.
So at this point, it's not about gathering more data.
You've got to figure out how to shape it, how to put a spotlight on what's most important.
Next thing, don't write the speech out word for word and don't try to memorize it.
That's incredibly time consuming.
It's tedious and it's usually not very successful with audiences because if you write it all out and
you've got to give the speech tomorrow morning, there's going to be this tendency to try to read it
because that will seem safe and stop a minute and think, How do you feel when someone reads a speech
to you?
You're probably thinking, Wow, this guy is really boring and insulting.
He's assuming I don't know how to read.
If he's just going to read, he could have emailed it to me.
We could have all stayed home.
So don't write your speech out.
Don't try to memorize your speech.
And for goodness sake, don't try to print it all out in text.
Bullet points on a PowerPoint thinking, Well, this will be great.
I'll just read the PowerPoint and use that as my people hate that.
Don't even use PowerPoint unless you have great visuals that are not based on text.
And if you've waited until the night before, let's forget the PowerPoint.
Let's give people a good presentation based on the ideas you care about.
So let's summarize the things to not do.
Don't gather more and more and more data.
Don't be emailing 20 colleagues trying to get 50 more pages in.
Don't write your speech.
Don't try to memorize your speech and don't try to use PowerPoint as the poor man's the poor woman's
teleprompter.
Put all that stuff away and now we can get back to what's really important in the next lesson.

--- Don't Use Your PowerPoint Slides to Put People to Sleep Public Speaking ---

I love PowerPoint.
It's the greatest tool ever.
It is fantastic for speakers and great for audiences.
Do you agree?
Well, I'm being a little bit facetious.
I do like PowerPoint.
I use it myself sometimes five days a week.
However, the big problem with most PowerPoint presentations is they're so deadly dull, all they do
is put the audience to sleep.
They have become sleep aids because they are nothing but a boring data dump of text.
They become the teleprompter for the speaker.
Now a news anchor using a teleprompter can be effective because you don't actually see the words.
The news anchor appears to just be talking to you.
But when all the words are up there and you see the person kind of turning their back and blah, blah,
blah, blah, it destroys the whole effect.
It becomes incredibly boring.
So the first thing you've got to realize if you're going to use PowerPoint effectively is you can't
use it just as your teleprompter.
The poor man's the poor woman's teleprompter, because if you do, you're just going to put everybody
to sleep.

--- These Are the Three Most Important Ideas in Your Presentation ---

I know the panic is setting in.
You've got to give this speech tomorrow or maybe even later today.
All these ideas are swirling around in your brain.
Just stop.
Just stop for a minute.
I have been testing audiences around the world for years and years and years, and I've never had an
audience.
Remember more than five ideas from the best speaker they've seen in the last year.
And that may be a two hour speech, something that's been built up for a long time.
If you can get your audience to remember anything, you're ahead of the game.
If you can get them to remember three ideas, by my own estimate, you would be in the top 95% of all
public speakers.
So let's just cut to the chase.
And instead of listing every single bullet point about your company or your quarterly results or your
cause, I want you on a single sheet of paper or a single computer screen.
Write down just three ideas that you want your audience to know, understand and remember, and potentially
act upon.
Three Ideas.
I don't mean three big themes with 27 different little sub points and Roman numerals.
No, I mean three ideas, ten words or less for each one.
So number one.
Ten words or less.
Number two.
Ten words or less.
And number three, ten words or less.
Let's focus on the big picture of a few little things or out or missing.
That's not what people remember.
Your speeches don't have to be perfect.
As long as you convey a few good ideas, you'll be okay.
Most people don't care about the other stuff.
You make a little mistake.
It doesn't matter if you get the big things right.
For example, just occurred to me.
I forgot to take my glasses off before I taped this, but it also realized that what do you care if
I have glasses on?
So I'm not going to redo this.
I'm simply going to speak and make it my best.

--- PowerPoint Slides, One idea Per Slide Public Speaking ---

When it comes to PowerPoint, the most effective way to use slides in a presentation is to have no more
than one idea per slide.
Now, that sounds crazy to some of you because you're used to thinking in terms of, well, should I
have 15 bullet points or seven bullet points or four charts or only two charts?
I'm telling you, you're going to be much better off focusing on one idea per slide and to make that
idea come alive, not using text.
Now, I'm not anti text.
I love text.
I read books every day, newspapers every day.
I've written eight books, but I don't have any evidence that projecting text up on a slide when you're
speaking is particularly helpful to your audience.
So limit your slide to one idea, one idea per slide, and you'll actually be communicating more, not
less.

--- Your Story Will Make Your Presentation ---

In a future lesson, I'm going to tell you specifically about how you practice on video, but I'll never
forget why it rings so true to me and why it's so important.
Many years ago, I was training a prime minister over in Eastern Europe, my first time in that part
of the world.
And the prime minister said, well, T.J., you mind if I give it in my native language?
It was an Eastern European language I didn't understand.
So we'll sure find when we're in this former dictator summer palace.
This was a democracy now surrounded by bodyguards with machine guns.
And the prime minister stands up, proceeds to read his speech, head down in his foreign language.
We then watch the tape.
He turns to me and says, well, T.J., what did you think of the presentation?
That was frankly a little bit nervous?
Because I thought he was awful.
He was so boring.
It was just monotone head down, no expression, no eye contact.
I was also thinking him in the foreign part of the world, I'm surrounded by people with guns.
This was a long time ago.
Do I tell him the truth or do I sort of make him happy?
And I finally said, you know what?
He's paying me a bunch of money to tell him the truth.
I'll just tell him the truth.
I said, with all due respect, Mr. Prime Minister, I have no idea what you said, but you bored the
hell out of me.
He looked at me.
He looked at his armed guards.
He looked back at the video.
I thought for a second said, you're right, it was boring as hell.
So what do we do?
We took his speech, tore it up.
He came up with a new simple outline where he spoke, looking up, giving examples, telling stories,
looked at the video and he loved it.
OK, so what did I just do that I told a story?
Is it a brilliant story now seeking to win awards now?
It happens to be true.
All I was trying to do was to communicate one point the importance of practicing on video, because
it becomes obvious to you how awful and boring you can be.
Sometimes anybody can learn.
It doesn't matter if you're prime minister or a seven year old giving a show and tell presentation in
a classroom, anybody can benefit by practicing on video.
Now, it only takes two seconds to say practise your speech on video.
Instead, I told a story.
It only took a little more than a minute, but it had characters, it had dialogue, it had a setting.
It had a problem.
It had my feelings.
I was nervous about it.
It had a point.
It had a resolution.
So you might not consider yourself the world's greatest storyteller.
That's OK.
But I want you to pick one of your points, the most important point in your presentation.
And I want you to tell a story to make that point come alive.
Doesn't have to be as dramatic as being in a strange part of the world surrounded by machine guns.
It can you it can be you simply retelling a conversation.
You met with a real customer, a real client, a real prospect and a fellow employee about a real problem,
where you were, how you felt, how it was resolved and how that relates to an issue of importance to
your audience.
So I want you to think of a story.
You don't have to write it all out.
You can just write a few words.
Henderson, Client and Ashboro, whatever it is that's going to remind you of a conversation that you
can then give in the presentation.
It's the single biggest difference between great communicators and awful communicators.
Great communicators illustrate every single important point in their presentation with a story awful
communicators consistently go through the data, do a big data dump, no stories.
If you have a great story that's relevant to your audience, makes an important point.
They are going to think you are a far better speaker than one of your colleagues who's been writing
and rewriting and practice and rehearsing this speech for six months.
So here's your chance to really leapfrog above all the others and to do it quickly and easily.
So think of that story right now.

--- PowerPoint Presentations Require 2 Separate PowerPoints Public Speaking ---

Every PowerPoint presentation should really have two presentations, not just one.
What do I mean by that?
If you're giving a PowerPoint presentation, you really, in my opinion, need to have two separate,
distinct presentations.
There is the PowerPoint that you actually project could be on a small screen.
It could be on a 100 foot screen in front of people.
When you are standing speaking to them, that PowerPoint presentation should be devoid of words, text
complexity columns and complex graphs.
Instead, it should have images.
Pictures.
If there's a graph, it should show one relationship, two variables at most.
There is a second PowerPoint presentation that you also need and that is something that you email to
people in advance or you hand out.
This PowerPoint can have lots and lots of text, lots of data, complexity, wildly complex graphs,
because people can read it, they can print it out, they can twist it, turn it, they can start to
read it, get hungry, put it down, go get a ham sandwich, come back and read it and study it again.
It's a different medium.
The text medium that you control is simply different from a live presentation where the audience can't
control the slides going.
By now, Microsoft PowerPoint has a notes section where you can put notes in it, lots of data.
It shows up to anyone you email the PowerPoint to.
It shows up on any computer screen, but when you're projecting it, it doesn't show up.
So you can actually have two presentations in one file, or you can have it as two completely different
ones.
If you try to have one PowerPoint that has multi purposes, you are going to fail.
I understand that's how most people do it, but I'm here to tell you it is not effective.

--- Creating a One-page Outline ---

The next thing I want you to do quickly is to come up with a simple and I mean simple one page outline
for your presentation, and you're not even going to need the whole page, but write it in big font.
I just hand wrote this speech.
You can see number one, number two, number three and put story give you a couple of words underneath
the one point that you're going to have a story.
You need to have an outline.
Do not I beg you.
I beg you.
As I mentioned in the first lecture, don't try to write out the whole speech.
You'll be up till 4:00 in the morning.
You'll be so tired, you'll have bags under your eyes.
That's what people will notice.
Not the fact that you've memorized or reading a great speech.
So don't stay up late writing the speech.
Instead, have a very simple outline three points and a few words to remind you of your story, your
one story to flesh out your main point.
And that's going to be the roadmap for your presentation and write it out big enough so you don't have
to hold it up.
You don't have to sort of stop and put your glasses on and fiddle with it.
Since it's only one page, you're not going to have to be turning pages.
It's going to be simple, clean, efficient.
And this way you're going to fool people into thinking you've been practicing rehearsing for a long
time because you're just talking to them.
You're not reading paper notes and you're not reading a PowerPoint.
So please, one page, three bullet points, very large, ten words or less for each bullet point.
And underneath one of them, a few words to remind you of your story.
And that is going to be your roadmap.
That is going to be your security blanket for this speech coming up in just a few hours.

--- PowerPoint Presenters Must Focus on Audience, Not Slides Public Speaking ---

When you are giving a PowerPoint presentation, it's critical that your focus stays on your audience.
The slides, whether they're behind you or in front of you, that's for your audience.
It's not for you.
You don't want to be these speakers who's sort of turning around and all you see is the back of their
head and the creases in their jacket.
You have to focus on your audience.
If you're focusing on PowerPoint slides, especially if it's a bunch of text, I can tell you exactly
what your audience is going to do.
Do, do, do, do.
Let's check email.
Let's check sports scores.
Let's check stock price.
They are going to ignore you.
It's human nature.
If you ignore your audience, they will ignore you.
So you have to be focused on your audience.
You need to be giving eye contact at least 95% of the time on members of your audience.
If you don't do that, you will lose them.

--- Quickly Rehearse Your Presentation on Video ---

Okay, we're making progress.
But now is the point you're not going to like.
Nobody likes this part.
But I'm telling you, if all the advice I'm going to give you in this emergency class is the number
one thing that will really help you, and that is you've got to practice just once, just once on video.
And what I mean by that is not going and hiring a big TV production crew.
You don't even have to go to the bottom of your closet and dig out the, you know, the big handicam
and handheld recorder and a big tripod that you've taken on vacations.
Now just pull out your cell phone, your smartphone or a tablet, or if you have to your webcam and
record your speech, have your one page of notes, give your speech once and then watch it.
That's all I'm asking you to do.
Now, after you watch it, make notes of what you like and what you don't like.
This is far and away the most important part of this process.
Now, I know I told you that this was going to be a 30 minute class.
Guess what?
You already know all the really important stuff.
So if you're really in a huge, huge bind, stop looking at the rest of the lectures and just go right
into this.
Have your notes in front of you, practice your speech.
And if it's a ten minute, 15 minute speech, you practice it.
Once you watch it, once you make notes of what you like and don't like.
And if you want to make some adjustments on your outline, do it.
But don't be futzing around and don't lengthen it.
Don't start putting in whole paragraphs because then you'll be tempted to read it.
And that makes any speaker awful.
Do this one tip.
I'm not asking you to rehearse 50 times.
100 times.
I'm not asking you to email it to 50 people and get critiques.
Those are all good things to do in normal circumstances.
But you've got to give a speech tomorrow or in a few hours.
You don't have time just doing this one practice.
Watching it once is going to help you tremendously because if you don't actually practice it and watching
it on video, then when you're giving your speech in a few hours or tomorrow, it's coming out of your
mouth.
The first time it's really going through your brain.
The first time it's the rough draft.
The rough drafts of most things are, by definition, rough, not very good.
That's why we do second and third drafts of important memos, emails of position papers.
But with speeches, even people who've been working on their speech for months, quite often the first
time they're saying it is in front of the live crowd.
So things come out rough.
You can bypass those people who've been working on their speech for weeks.
If you do this one thing I know it's not pleasant if you're not used to looking at yourself on video,
Hey, I don't love everything about how I look on video.
I can look at a video and say, Oh gosh, am I getting a triple chin again?
There's more hair falling out.
But guess what?
If I don't look at that on video, anyone I speak to can still see that.
So me not looking at it on video doesn't help.
You aren't going to help anything by not looking at yourself.
Speak on video, you're going to help a tremendous amount just by practicing once watching it and then
getting ready to go in having seen yourself.
So you're a big bind.
Don't look at any more of the course right now.
Just do this.
Practice your speech, watch it and you'll be good to go.

--- PowerPoint Presentations, Prepare for Disasters Public Speaking ---

You are never truly prepared for a PowerPoint presentation unless you are prepared to give your presentation
without the PowerPoint.
Bulbs burn out, computers malfunction, electricity goes away.
You've still got to present your ideas.
And that's why it's critical for you to realize you're not actually giving a PowerPoint presentation
any more than I'm giving an electricity presentation right now.
I'm using electricity.
I'm using lights.
But this isn't a light presentation.
So you've got to realize at some point accidents will happen.
I've seen it happen to Steve Jobs when he was alive.
I've seen it happen to Bill Gates when they're in the middle of a PowerPoint presentation and all of
a sudden the screen goes blank, Something malfunctions.
You don't want to be one of these people who's, oh, no, no, I can't give my presentation.
I'm really sorry.
You need to just continue talking.
And that's why I recommend having on a single sheet of paper the notes so you can cover everything you
want to say in that presentation.
Without the slides, you are never prepared.
You're never truly prepared to give a PowerPoint presentation unless you're ready to give it.
Without the PowerPoint, you have to simply be able to explain your ideas with words, examples, case
studies and stories.

--- You are Good to Go! ---

So I hope you're feeling a little more relaxed about that speech or presentation you have to give tomorrow
or later today.
It's not as big a problem as you think.
I'm about to conclude here, but I do want to mention there is some bonus material here that you can
look at, but do it later.
Do it after you get this speech.
I don't want to give you an excuse not to do the most important part of this whole lesson, which is
practice once on video, using a single sheet of paper with three bullet points.
So often it's easy.
It's lazy to say, Well, let me just read more.
Let me just gather more information.
Let me watch another training tutorial.
You've got the points right now.
Again, to summarize, brainstorm on your messages, come up with a top three.
Figure out what is it you actually want this audience to do.
Come up with a story that illustrates your most important point.
So if someone's only half listening, they can still remember what you're talking about and get your
point.
And finally, practice on video and practice using your little cheat sheet and use that cheat sheet
when you're giving your speech practice.
Watch it.
Make final adjustments to your notes and you are ready to go.
Good luck with your presentation.
I'm sure you'll do fine.

--- How to Test Your PowerPoint Slides for Effectiveness Public Speaking ---

How can you test your PowerPoint presentation to see if it's effective or not?
It's actually very easy to test PowerPoint slides to see which ones work and which ones don't.
And it's not about some general axiom like it must be seven points or no more than three.
That's not it.
It's about your audience.
Do they understand it?
Do they remember it?
So here's my advice.
You're giving a big PowerPoint presentation on Friday to 30 clients.
Find three colleagues from down the hall on Wednesday.
Give them your PowerPoint presentation.
When you're done, ask them every slide they remember.
If they don't remember one of your slides, take that slide, tear it up and throw it in the trash can.
You now have empirical evidence that that slide doesn't work?
Again, the goal of your slide is to make your idea more understandable and more memorable.
If your audience can't remember it two seconds after you gave the speech, it obviously isn't effective.
Use this rule and I guarantee you it's going to eliminate your bad slides.
It's also going to eliminate slides with text and bullet points because people never remember those.

--- Should I read my speech so that I don’t make any mistakes Public Speaking ---

Should I read my speech to make sure I don't make any mistakes?
Well, if you ask any presentation coach, this is probably the question we get that drives us bonkers
the most.
It's virtually impossible to read a speech without, by definition, making a mistake.
You've destroyed all eye contact with the audience.
You've become boring, bland, most likely monotone.
Now, it is true there are some people good at reading speech.
Ronald Reagan was good at reading his speech.
I've seen Dan Rather read his speech well, but guess what?
He was reading teleprompter copy and reading scripts every day for 60 years.
If you're reading scripts every day for 60 years, yeah, you'll probably get good at it.
But for most people, business people, people in public life, political life, it's really not a good
idea to read a speech because it instantly handcuffs you, destroys your eye contact, robs you of natural
rhythm in your voice.
Makes you sound phony, contrived, and it just evens out the tones, the volumes, the speed, the
pitch.
It makes things too consistent, and that's boring.
So you may think it's safe to read because that way you won't forget something.
But if you destroy people's ability to pay attention because they've fallen asleep, it's actually not
safe at all.
Reading his speech, in my view, is actually the riskiest thing you could ever do if your goal is to
actually communicate.

--- You Will Communicate Your Messages and Your Passion ---

If you have an opportunity to speak to a foreign audience, I highly recommend you take it.
It's always nice to share ideas with people from different parts of the world, or perhaps they're in
your country and they simply have a different heritage, different culture, different language background
from you.
It's still an opportunity for you to communicate.
So don't turn it down just because people are from different parts of the world.
This course is going to give you some very specific tips to increase the odds that you're more successful
with your presentation, to increase the odds that people can have a good feeling about you, can understand
you and remember your message, process it.
So ideally they take the actions you want.
So that's what this course is about.
If at any time you have questions, please post your questions here in the comments section of this
course.
I'll be happy to answer you directly.
And I'm glad you're here.
We're going to hop right in.

--- How do I remember what to say in a presentation Public Speaking ---

So how do you remember what to say when you're giving a speech?
Because you don't want to look like you're reading and staring at a PowerPoint.
What do you do?
Well, here's my solution for you.
Don't remember anything.
Have a cheat sheet.
Now, this is ethical cheating, my friends, but have a cheat sheet just for you.
The beauty of this sheet is a single sheet of paper.
Large font.
This is what I use when I'm giving an hour long speech on how to speak to the media.
And I have 2 or 3 of these around the room.
I never have to pick them up.
I never touch them because it's large font.
I don't have to bend over to look at it or put on my glasses.
I can just be walking by and glance at it.
That way I don't have to remember anything other than the general stuff I say when I see that particular
bullet point and I can talk about it in a non word for word memorized way, I can just have a conversation
about that point.
So don't put pressure on yourself to remember anything for a speech.
Instead, just use notes, but keep it to a single sheet.
If it takes more than a single sheet of paper for you to put your notes, that by definition proves
you have not done a good enough job of narrowing down the number of points you're trying to convey in
this speech.

--- You Can Prepare in Advance for Success ---

Let me define the terms of our audience.
You may be in another country, and it may be that everybody understands English, but it's the second
or third language.
Or it may be that you have an audience that doesn't understand a word of English.
By the way, I only speak English, so I'm talking to you about English because that's what I understand.
You may be speaking to an audience.
They don't understand English, but they do have an interpreter who's either speaking to them and they
have an earpiece in or the interpreter is saying it out loud every 30s or so, or it may be an audience
combined with all of that.
So I'm going to give you some tips that try to cover all these different scenarios.
For starters, the preparation for a presentation to foreign audiences can be a little bit different.
Now, I'm not normally a fan of writing speeches out word for word, but if ever you do write your speech
out word for it, now is the time to do it.
Because if you're working with an interpreter, it's great to give that to the person in advance.
And now you can say, Hey, I'm going to be using my own terms.
I may be ad libbing.
This isn't a verbatim script, but a lot of it is going to come from this.
If you give that to the translator in advance, it will help the translator immensely.
You know who else you can give this to?
The audience.
If you're speaking to a conference of 300 colleagues and they're in your field and you're speaking about
something that you know they're going to be interested in, try to email the entire document to them,
and it's going to be pretty easy for them to get it translated.
I mean, these days you just put things in Google Docs translation and it does a pretty good job, not
100%.
Or you may actually want to hire someone to translate the text to give it to people in advance.
These are things that are nice to do.
Now let's say you're at the venue and you see there is in fact a translator.
I always recommend you go up, you shake hands, you're polite, you try to establish some commonality.
If you have a book or anything like that, give it to them as far in advance as possible.
But certainly if you are speaking half an hour from now, you can't expect them to read your whole book.
The sooner you get to meet the translator, the better.
The more they know about you, the more they know about the content, What you're trying to do, the
easier it's going to be for them to translate for you.
Also, simply talking to you is going to make it easier for them to do their job.
So if you're speaking after lunch and you're at a conference and you get there that morning, I'd go
so far as to recommend having lunch with a translator if that person is available and they can start
to get comfortable with your speech pattern.
So these are all things you can do before your speech even starts to increase the odds that you will
be understood and remembered by the audience.

--- How to Handle Questions from the Audience Public Speaking ---

So how do you handle questions from an audience when giving a speech or presentation?
First of all, you need to take the attitude of someone wants to ask you a question.
Great.
That's fantastic.
Too many speakers take the attitude of, uh oh.
They might ask me something I don't know, or they're interrupting my presentation.
It's not your presentation.
It's the audience's presentation.
So any time someone wants to ask you a question, that's generally a good thing.
It means, a, they're listening to you.
B, they're trying to understand.
You see, there may be a hole in something you've said that other people are confused by and that if
you answer this person's question, you'll help everyone.
D By definition, whatever you say next in answer to their question is going to be interesting to that
person right there.
So many good things happen when someone wants to ask questions.
Now.
Sure, there are times if you're speaking to 5000 people and you're given an exact 15 minute time limit,
it's not practical to answer every question or even any question.
But for many of us in the business world, the political world, you've been asked to speak.
There's 20, 30 people in the room and there's no strict, strict time limit.
I would have them ask questions right then.
I would not ask people to hold their questions till then.
They're going to forget.
It's frankly a lot more interesting to have this dialogue going on.
It shows people you can think on your feet, you're not rattled and it shows you being completely responsive
to your audience.
Why in the world wouldn't you want that?
It's basically a softball thrown your way.
So I love it when someone asks questions.
It's variety for people's ears.
They can now hear two voices instead of just yours.
And that's not saying your voice is bad.
It's just more interesting to the audience.
And remember, it's not your presentation.
Maybe they're asking you about something that you're going to talk about five minutes from now.
Change the order.
Unless it profoundly messes up everything you're doing, then you can politely tell them that you are
going to talk about that in five minutes and you ask for their indulgence.
But it's crucial that you act like you're happy to have questions that you want to answer them and that
you answer it fully without going on and on and on.
I would start answering the question by looking at the person who asked it, then look to other people
in the room and then finish by looking at the person who asked the question, Do that and your audience
will reward you.

--- Culture is Everything ---

When you are preparing your presentation for foreign audiences, it's critically important that you
avoid certain cultural references that just aren't going to make any sense to that foreign audience.
Now, the classic example is the American talking about the touchdown and all these football metaphors
and crush them and the huddle and nobody else in the rest of the world knows what they're talking about
because football to the rest of the world means soccer to Americans.
So avoid cultural references that deal with sports specific to you.
That's the biggest blunder.
I find this problem most acute for American businessmen because so many of them do like football and
they make references, you know, blocking and tackling.
All these analogies and references come from football.
So if you're saying it to a foreign audience, they're not going to know what you're talking about and
you're going to lose them.
And you know what happens when a foreign audience is lost by your speech?
Exactly the same thing that happens when a US audience gets lost by your speech.
They tune out and they read their email and you have wasted your time.
So you've got to treat this some respect like any other speech.
You've got to be focused on their audience.
You've got to make sure.
Are they paying attention?
Do they look like they're understanding?
So part of what you've got to do is not completely strip out everything interesting from your speech,
but you've got to make sure your examples, your case studies are things that resonate with people either
everywhere or specific to the country you are in now.
The more advanced you can do with your preparation and research specific to that country, If you can
reference particular sports stars from that country, famous in that country, great.
If you don't have time to do that or you're not willing to do that, make sure your references, your
analogies, your metaphors resonate at the human level.
Everywhere you can talk about family, you can talk about joys, you can talk about childbirth, you
can talk about all sorts of things that translate across culture.
But don't talk about your college football game and things that are really unique to right here in the
US.

--- How to Handle a Heckler Public Speaking ---

So how do you handle a heckler if you're giving a presentation?
Folks.
I hope it doesn't happen to you.
Many people go throughout their entire business career giving presentations and are never heckled.
But I can tell you I've been heckled before.
It's not fun, but it's not the end of the world.
The important thing is not that you have this really snappy, funny one liner that reduces the person
to rubble and he cries and runs out the room.
You don't have to do that, but you do need to make sure that you don't wilt, that you don't act upset,
scared, afraid.
That's really the most important thing.
And showing patience, don't getting angry, don't elevate the situation.
There may be times when you have to say, look, one of us can speak if it's going to be you, be my
guest.
Now, that's not my first choice, but if someone persists or you can take a vote, how many of us want
to hear him versus me?
Or you could just say, Sir, thank you for sharing and then just keep on.
Now I say, sir, because in my experience, most hecklers are men, but there's no one perfect response.
The main thing is don't look bothered, don't run off the stage, don't get flustered, and people will
give you points and credit for handling the situation with class.

--- It Sounds Silly, But this One Tip Helps Massively ---

There's the classic image of the ugly American in a foreign country who's upset that everybody in this
country, whether it's Italy or whether it is Malaysia, doesn't speak English.
Now, it's inexcusable for Americans to be like that, but it is true now when you see something like
that in a movie or a TV show.
There's the classic, I am now talking to you loudly and slowly so you will understand my language.
Obviously, that doesn't work if the person you're speaking to doesn't speak your language.
Now, here's the part that's a little bit confusing or contradictory.
I actually do recommend that when you are speaking to foreign audiences, that you speak a little louder
than normal and a little slower than normal.
Now, hey, we all have cultural biases.
I have a bias.
I'm an American.
I only speak English.
But what I have found in speaking all over the world is there's a tremendous number of people who,
even if English is not their first language, they have a working understanding of English because they've
seen so many movies from Hollywood TV shows in English, they have learned a lot of English.
So here's where speaking a little bit slower helps.
It's simply easier for people to process what you're saying.
When it's slower, they can see the separation between words.
It's easy to sort of hear it, figure it out in their mind.
What is that word that they remembered studying in English class five years ago?
And then they have to translate it from the English word to the word in their language.
That takes time.
Now, I'm not suggesting that you speak like this in a robotic way, because that's annoying.
That's really annoying.
I'm not suggesting that.
But what I am suggesting is speak a little bit slower than normal.
Don't be afraid to pause a little more between sentences, thoughts, paragraphs.
Feel free to walk a little more.
Pause.
Reflect.
Look at people's eyes to see that there is some connection going on.
So it's a subtle thing, but I do recommend speaking a little bit slower than normal longer pauses.
It's going to be much easier for the people in the audience who are translating in their own brain.
But it's also going to make life much easier for the translator because professional translators are
doing an awful lot.
But it's still tough to be speaking out to the audience at the same time having to listen to you.
So when you pause occasionally, they can then say what you just did in the other language, and yet
they haven't missed anything from what you're saying.
So that's the beauty of pausing and also just speaking a little louder than normal is going to make
it easier for anyone to comprehend it.
Again, you're not yelling.
You're not shouting.
You're not the so-called ugly American.
But a little louder, more pausing, will make it much, much easier for everyone to understand and
translate in their own brains.
And that's going to make it more effective for your speech and your presentation.

--- What to Do if You're Losing Your Audience Public Speaking ---

So what do you do if you're just plainly losing your audience?
It happens to people.
It's happened to me.
You can't simply proceed as if nothing's happening.
Now, there may be times it's after lunch.
People are tired.
They want a nap.
Maybe the room is too warm and it's putting people to sleep.
There may be times when you have to say, Look, let's all spend 30s Stand up and stretch.
I'm feeling hot and tired.
I know you are too.
It may be something as specific as that.
Sometimes your subject matter is just losing them and you're going to have to make a quick decision
to get rid of some of your content and go to something more interesting.
Sometimes you may have to decide to really engage your audience.
Sometimes the best is just to deal with the issue head on.
Sally.
I feel like I'm losing some of you.
Tell me, where have I gotten Fuzzy?
Here.
Can you help me out and put the spotlight on someone there?
And maybe someone in the audience can help you out.
But if you just ignore it, you're only going to make the problem worse.
So either change the room, change the temperature, change your subject area, change your direction,
change the style, do something to get yourself out of this rut.

--- Creating Your Permanent Reminders for the Audience ---

I understand finding great translators can be difficult, time consuming, sometimes expensive.
It might not work into your schedule, but what I would recommend is having some handouts.
It could be just 1 or 2 pages just with a few bullet points.
Have that translated for the audience.
So they've got something that gives a little more structure to what you're talking about.
Certainly the title, your key points, if you have other information for them, if they can reach out
to you in some other way, have something.
Now, I understand that's not possible if you're talking to 10,000 people, but if you are speaking
to 100 people or fewer, I mean, it's only a few sheets of paper.
So have some kind of handout that's translated in their language of your core content and that will
help your audience.

--- How to Keep Your Speech from Being Boring Public Speaking ---

So how do you keep your speech from being boring?
Because let's face it, the vast majority of presentations in the world are deadly dull and they're
boring.
Now, I hear my clients say that all the time, and yet they stand up and they give boring speeches.
Why is that?
It's because we feel like a speech is really about telling people everything we know, every fact,
every bullet point, every number on a particular subject that has occurred in the last quarter or the
last year.
If that is your assumption going into a speech, you are by definition going to be a failure.
That's not what a speech is about.
If you want to be an effective speaker, if you want to not be boring, you have to use editorial judgment.
You have to look at all the things you could say and figure out what are truly the handful of most important
ideas important to me, but also important to this audience.
And now, how can I flesh it out?
How can I make it more memorable?
How can I give examples?
And most important, how can I tell stories to make these ideas come alive?
If you do that, you will not be boring if you let somebody just start piecing together bullet points
on a PowerPoint slide deck for you, you are going to be boring.

--- Working the Room ---

You finish the speech, you received a polite applause.
Now what?
Well, it's not over my recommendation.
Don't rush out of the room.
Don't try to hop the first plane out of there.
Don't leave the conference to go relax by the pool.
As much as that might be an attraction for you.
Instead, work the room.
Now, you might not be a politician, but you do want to communicate your ideas.
So stay in the room because people may want to ask you questions.
They may have been too intimidated to ask a question in their language or to try to ask in English in
front of people.
But they may be perfectly comfortable talking to you one on one.
And that may be the moment where you really connect with people.
You've answered their question and sometimes you can say, Ah, now I get it.
It also just creates a much stronger personal bond.
People will trust you more, they'll like you more, they'll give you higher evaluations.
If that's relevant to where you are speaking.
So stay in the room, meet as many people as possible, shake hands, be friendly, ask them questions,
and let them ask you questions, because this is still an opportunity for you to communicate.
You're still in the spotlight for that particular room.
You're the biggest celebrity there, so you might as well enjoy your celebrity status while it last.
So talk to people in the room.
Be the last person out of the room and you'll make the most out of this speaking engagement.

--- How to Recover from a Memory Lapse during a Speech Public Speaking ---

So how do you recover from a memory loss during a speech or presentation?
Happens to everyone.
Doesn't matter how old you are or any other factor.
You're giving a presentation, speech, a talk, and all of a sudden you forget what you're going to
say.
Happens to everyone.
Professional speaker, amateur alike.
Here's the difference, though.
Average speakers, mediocre speakers, when they forget what they're going to say, their face instantly
reveals it.
Oh crap.
Or they actually articulate, Oh, I forgot what I'm going to say.
They put a spotlight.
They magnify their words, their mistakes.
And that in and of itself is a mistake.
Great speakers also forget what they're going to say from time to time.
You know what they do.
They'll stop.
Look at you like I just said something so brilliant.
You need a couple of seconds to think about it, or they'll stop, look down, walk a few feet, as
if they're being completely reflective.
Self-assured inwardly.
They're thinking, Uh oh, what am I going to say?
What am I going to say?
Oh, outwardly they're projecting complete calm and the state of being relaxed.
The other thing great speakers understand is the audience can't read my mind.
The audience doesn't know if I forgot something or what's next on my agenda or my outline.
So if I forget it and I come back to it later and cover it, it's still all going to be good, They
won't know.
So realize you don't have to panic.
Your audience doesn't know that you forgot what you're going to say.
So relax.
Take a breath.
Just pause.
It may seem like forever for you, but if it's only two seconds, your audience won't notice it.
They'll actually appreciate it.
Gives them a second to think and reflect upon what you just said.
So it's not crucial to have a perfect memory.
What is crucial is to figure out how to hide it from your audience and not take out a big sign telling
them when you've screwed up.

--- Conclusion to Speaking to Foreign Audiences ---

Thanks for being a part of this course on how to speak to foreign audiences.
If you follow the tips that we've discussed here, I think you're going to be quite successful in your
presentations and you've heard me say this throughout.
But keep in mind, it's not that different than speaking to domestic audiences, because let's face
it, most speakers, most places are awful and are boring and don't really communicate much.
So your goal shouldn't be to be just as good as most speakers speaking in their own language.
That's too low a standard.
Your goal should be to be great, to have the ideas you care about the most, understood by your audience,
remembered by your audience so they can take the actions you're advocating.
That's the goal.
Don't ever lose sight of the goals.
And the other things are relatively simple.
Trying to talk to the translator in advance, stripping out all the cultural reference points that people
just are not going to understand because they don't watch the same TV shows and watch the same sports.
But putting in new metaphors, new analogies, new stories that transcend human experience everywhere.
If you do that and you speak a little bit slower and you just go out of your way to really connect with
people, you're going to do an excellent job with this speech.
My final tip to you is don't stop here.
One good speech in one foreign place can create more and more invitations to speak elsewhere.
So here's the final tip.
When you are speaking to this audience for real in the real world, have someone, a friend, a colleague,
the organizer in the corner somewhere, preferably maybe on the front row, quietly capturing your speech.
The entire time because you want to learn from this speech.
You want to figure out what worked, where were you expecting applause and you didn't get it.
Where were you not expecting any response?
And all of a sudden people are laughing.
When you have a video record of your presentation, you've got something to go back to study, to figure
out exactly what worked so you can make it better, what didn't work so you can tweak it.
So please video record every practice you do, but also every speech.
Do that and you will be a fantastic communicator, a great speaker in any language.
Good luck.

--- How to Smile during a Speech Public Speaking ---

So how do you smile during a presentation?
You've probably heard that you're supposed to smile when giving a presentation makes you seem friendlier,
warmer.
It's true.
But how do you really do it if you're nervous?
Because what happens to most people is when they're nervous, their face goes, okay.
In my presentation today when I talk about blah blah, blah, blah, I may get everything right, I
may follow my outline, but when my face goes blank, I look flat, boring, nervous, uncomfortable.
So part of it is you've got to rehearse on video.
You've got to be aware of what your face is doing at all times.
Also, realize it's not just about having kind of a fake plastered smile on your face.
It's just you want a full range of emotion on your face.
You want to show all your expressions.
And certainly when you stand up to talk for the first time, you do want to smile and look like you're
happy to be there because too many people, they're introduced and they're thinking, Oh crap, now
I got to speak.
What's my introduction that I memorized?
And their face has this sort of blank lost look.
You don't want to be that way.
You also don't want to stand up face perfectly blank.
And now you're introducing all of a sudden it's.
It's too abrupt.
It looks like you're trying to be phony.
So you need a little bit of a smile on your face before you even stand up.
Most important of all, you need to figure out a way of making this fun.
If your speech seems like drudgery to you.
It's going to seem like drudgery to your audience as well.
You've got to figure out what in your content is interesting, fun, and engaging and let that animate
your face.

--- How to Give a Technical Speech Public Speaking ---

So how do you give a good technical presentation?
Here's the problem.
You're told you have to give a technical presentation and people automatically put this hat on and it
says, Oh, I've got to be really boring and do a massive data dump.
No, you don't.
You can be interesting and memorable.
It doesn't matter if it's a technical presentation, a financial presentation, Formal, informal.
The audience is still judging you the same way.
Is this interesting?
Useful.
Helpful.
I'll pay attention.
Boring, tedious.
I'll zone out.
So you've got to realise that when you're giving a technical presentation.
People tell me all the time.
TJ, I love your ideas about narrowing the messages down, having examples, case study stories, but
I can't do that because I'm giving a technical presentation and it's absolute garbage.
You know who else gave technical presentations?
Steve Jobs.
Now, I don't want you to mimic him and try to be Steve Jobs.
But when he spoke, he got people to focus on one thing at a time.
When he used visuals, it wasn't to store a whole bunch of words.
So I would urge you Google Steve Jobs speeches, go to YouTube, look at his speeches, and note how
relatively few number of points and data points and numbers are in his speeches.
Look at how he uses images to drive home technical points.
So when he wanted to communicate the technical point that one of his earlier laptops was incredibly
thin, he didn't put up a slide, a keynote slide, which is the Apple version of PowerPoint.
He didn't put up a keynote slide that said bullet point thickness, one eighth of an inch.
That's not what he did.
He had someone walk out on stage, carry an envelope, give it to him.
And he said, How thin is this new computer?
He pulled it out of the envelope thin enough to fit in this envelope.
It dramatically conveyed the idea of, Wow, this computer is really thin.
Most people, when told they have to give a technical presentation, they wouldn't do that.
They think, Oh, I've got to go over all the specs and the gigahertz and the megabytes and the ram
and the blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
It's boring.
It doesn't stick.
Now you've got to be able to answer people's questions on that.
You can certainly give them that information in the handout, the email, the press release.
But as far as you standing up and speaking, that's not the time to do the technical data dump.
You've got to get people to focus on what's most important in your technology and how it's going to
help and change their lives.

--- Learn the Easiest Thing to Present: A Question ---

So let's dig a little deeper.
What is keeping us from speaking out at meetings?
What makes it different from just talking to one colleague in the hallway?
Someone we know and trust and we can have a free flowing conversation.
Part of it is just this feeling of different eyes looking at us.
Sometimes it's the fact that it's a boss or a boss's boss.
Sometimes it's the stature of the people in the room.
There's a whole bunch of reasons, and at some point we ought to just get over it and just talk.
I want to start off with the easiest way of talking in a meeting, and that is to simply ask a question.
It doesn't have to be a brilliant question.
It just has to be a question that relates to something that's being talked about or will be talked about.
But don't put pressure on yourself.
You are not trying to be Charlie Rose or Oprah Winfrey or Barbara Walter with your questions.
Just ask a simple question here is what I'm after.
If there are, say, more than ten people or for you it might even be five people.
But there's some threshold of people in a room that makes you uncomfortable.
You feel pressure.
You feel adrenaline pulsating through your body with the idea of speaking in front of people.
I want to get you used to doing that so that the adrenaline doesn't pump and you don't have this fight
or flight mentality going on in fighting in your body to get out of there.
I want you to be able to be calm Now.
It's perfectly normal to be nervous, to be uncomfortable when you're about to speak in front of people,
even if it's to ask a simple question.
But it is pretty simple to ask a question, and it gets you in the habit of simply talking, projecting
your voice to be heard in front of 5 or 10 or 15 or 20 people.
So let's start off with I don't mean this to sound condescending, but let's start off with some baby
steps.
I want you to think of 3 or 4 questions you could ask at the very next meeting you have to attend,
whether it is for your business, your trade association, your civic organization.
Write those questions down now.

--- How to Recover from Making a Mistake in a Speech Public Speaking ---

So how do you recover from a mistake or blunder when you're giving a presentation?
Look, everybody makes mistakes from time to time.
I make mistakes.
Here's the difference, though, between how amateurs handle it and real pros.
What most people do, if they make a mistake and they realize it, all of a sudden it's.
They visibly show all their frustration on their face.
They may apologize.
And unfortunately, what happens, even if people can relate to you, it becomes the most memorable
moment of your presentation.
People are feeling sorry for you.
They're feeling sympathy for you.
That's not the emotion you want from your audience.
You want them focused on the ideas you have and why they need to do what you're asking them to do.
So my advice is, if you make a mistake, first of all, you've got to make a judgment.
How big of a mistake is it?
Because there's plenty of mistakes where you didn't say it exactly the way you wanted to, but it's
not factually incorrect.
It's not legally a problem.
It's just not the best way of saying it.
In that case, ignore it or explain it again without referencing your previous mistake.
Now, occasionally you can make a mistake that is a genuine problem.
If you say your profits are up $1 billion last quarter and you meant to say it's $1 million, well you
better correct that right away.
Or the Securities and Exchange Commission could be all over you and you could find yourself in prison.
So in that particular case, I would just state let me correct that.
It's $1 million last quarter, not the first number.
I said state it state in a straightforward way.
Don't apologize, don't look and act like you are holding yourself in contempt.
Just simply go on correct the record in a straightforward way and continue.
Don't let it act like it's bothering you.
You do that and people will not remember your mistakes.
They'll remember your main messages.

--- Build Confidence Through Notes ---

So speaking up at a meeting is different from giving a speech, giving a prepared presentation, giving
a PowerPoint.
If it looks like you're just raising your hand to ask a question, all of a sudden you pull out a big
long script and you start reading your PowerPoint slide, that's going to seem odd.
The good news is you don't have to do that.
There's not that much pressure when you're speaking up in a meeting.
All you really need to do is introduce one idea.
Now it can be in the form of a question or a statement, but you don't have to have a full script.
You don't have to have a PowerPoint.
You don't have to have a whole show and tell.
But that doesn't mean you can't have some way of preparing what I would recommend in any meeting.
It's good etiquette anyway, and it's good to just help with the memory process.
Make notes when you're in a meeting, when you hear other people speaking, when you hear a boss, a
colleague, a client speak.
Take notes on what they are saying.
It helps your memory process.
But then if you have questions or disagreements or added insights, write notes and they should just
be two and three words at a time.
Again, if you want to raise your hand or you just shout out something to say in a meeting, it shouldn't
be staring at a big long list of notes, page after page.
But if you want to have a single sheet.
Now this is tight, but you should just write it out in your own hands.
If you want to have a single sheet where you're just glancing down occasionally to frame your thoughts,
that's fine.
There's nothing wrong with glancing at notes.
I just wouldn't read whole sentences.
I wouldn't read whole paragraphs.
But to take a few notes to give you a sense of some structure if you're going to say more than 10s,
worth is perfectly fine.
So get in the habit in any meeting, especially one where you think it might help you to speak out,
take notes, and that way you can actually have a little outline for what you want to say in front of
the group.
And I mean a little outline, a tight focused outline, not whole sentences.
So think about a subject that you might be asked to add to in a meeting where you might have some insights
or questions and try to come up with a little outline right now that you can use for practice.
We're going to do in a few minutes.

--- How to to Use a Teleprompter Public Speaking ---

How to use a teleprompter.
You have seen presidents do it.
Newscasters do it.
Now you can use a tech.
You see what I'm doing there?
That's what you don't want to do with a teleprompter.
Now, we've all seen political conventions where speaker after speaker gets up and they sound wooden,
contrived, phony, and it's because they're using a teleprompter the wrong way.
Here's what's happening to most people.
If they've never used a teleprompter before and they haven't practiced it and gotten really comfortable
with it, is instead of speaking the way they want to and letting the teleprompter follow them, they
make the teleprompter in charge.
So they're reading the script.
And what happens when people read is they flatten out their voice.
All of a sudden the volume is the same, the speed is the same.
The pause between words and sentences is the same.
And you're already asleep now.
It's this consistency.
The other thing that happens is they freeze their body, they freeze their face, and it's just a complete
disaster.
So if you want to be great at the teleprompter, there are a few simple rules you have to follow.
Number one, you have to sometimes speak a little louder than usual sometimes.
Number two, you have to speak a little softer than usual sometimes.
Number three, you have to speak a little faster than usual.
Number four, sometimes you have to speak a little slower than usual.
And number five.
Sometimes you have to pause.
ItrillionEALLY comes down to that.
If you do all of those things plus have some natural head and hand and facial expression.
If you do that, you won't sound like you're reading a teleprompter.
Now, there are certain politicians well known for doing a good job with the teleprompter not being
partisan here.
Ronald Reagan and Barack Obama both great with a teleprompter.
Now they have different messages, different philosophies, but the way they used a teleprompter was
exactly the same.
They changed their speed, tempo, volume.
They paused and they sounded as if they were just talking to you.
The other thing they do is they rehearse.
People use a teleprompter because they think, Great, I won't have to rehearse or memorize.
Now I can just talk Now if you want to use a teleprompter effectively, it actually requires more time.
You need to practice that speech.
You need to get used to it.
Here's the final thing I want to say about Teleprompter is don't let someone talk you into using it
if you really don't need it.
A lot of major national conventions, trade conventions are somehow convincing their executives to do
this because it gets things on time.
I know it doesn't.
It tends to make everyone really boring and flat.
Most people most of the time are much better off speaking from a simple sheet, one sheet of paper rather
than having the whole script.
Now something else you can do with your teleprompter is you can use it just to put notes or an outline.
So if you're going to use teleprompter, by all means practice, rehearse, rehearse on video.
It's not something to do to save you time.
It's something you use.
If you have even more time than usual to practice and rehearse.

--- Make the Right Risk Assessment ---

You may have heard the old expression, there's no such thing as a dumb question or a bad question.
Technically speaking, that's not true.
It is possible to ask a stupid question and have people laugh at you and think you're stupid.
So I'm not going to tell you that there's zero risk in asking questions or speaking up in a meeting.
But you have to weigh that against the other possible negative outcomes from you not saying anything.
Now, it's been my experience that people actually listening to someone ask a question thinking, Oh
my gosh, that's so stupid.
This person is an idiot.
That's relatively rare.
And yet when managers and others are sizing up a group, a team, a bunch of executives and figuring
out who's an executive who really has leadership potential, who's going to rise further and further,
who's going to be the CEO.
People are doing that consciously and unconsciously in every meeting based in part on who's speaking
and who isn't.
And those who never speak out run a very high risk of being perceived as someone not really cut out
for leadership potential, someone who should sort of stay where they are.
Now, folks, that's a real risk.
So when you're weighing risk, you can't simply do it in an unfair way and focus exclusively on the
risk of saying something stupid.
You have to really look at the risk of being seen quiet, uninteresting, unintelligent, nothing to
add, no real insights, no intellectual leadership.
Those are all very real risks you face every single time you don't speak up at a meeting to either add
your insights, give some additional thoughts, or to ask insightful questions.
So please, let's have an honest risk assessment, in my view.
The risk of asking a question that people think is stupid is relatively low.
The risk of staying silent is quite high.

--- How to Dress for a Speech Public Speaking ---

How should you dress when you're giving a speech or presentation?
There's no one set perfect thing to wear when you're giving a presentation.
The main thing is you do not want to confuse your audience.
You don't want to distract your audience and you want whatever it is you're talking about your message
to be amplified by what you're wearing.
So if you are a dairy farmer and you're giving a presentation on the dangers of mad cow disease, you
probably don't want to be seen in a banker's suit.
If you are an avant garde artist, you probably don't want to be seen in a boring, drab dress that
looks like it came from a 1980s dress for success manual.
You need to have something that's consistent with what you're about now.
For example, most of my clients work for large corporations, large government organizations or United
Nations organizations, and they are in suits and ties or similar dress clothing if they are women.
So when I'm giving a speech or speaking in a video like this, I'm wearing a traditional, somewhat
conservative business suit, tie, French cuffs, the whole bit.
I do this because I don't want people wondering, why is this guy in a tie dye shirt?
Is he going off to a party?
Is he.
I don't want to confuse people.
Now, it's not that you are going to love this tie.
This tie is specifically chosen to not stand out, to be muted.
It's that I don't want you to focus on what I'm wearing.
I want you to focus on what I'm saying.
So that's the rule of thumb.
When you are giving a presentation, you don't want people to notice what you're wearing.
And that means typically fitting in with how other people in your community, your business, your industry
are dressing.
And if you're going to vary maybe a notch or two above what everyone else is wearing, but not too many
notches above.
There have been times when I've been asked to do a speech or a training in front of a technical audience
at a high tech audience, and I went there in a suit and tie and all of a sudden no one's wearing a
suit or tie.
I quickly pull off the tie and throw the jacket, and now I fit in.
So you've got to be ready to adapt.
And like it or not, you have to be aware people are judging you based on what you wear.
Doesn't mean you always have to wear expensive clothes.
You do need to wear something that sends the right message that you're trying to convey.

--- You Will Sound Natural and Relaxed ---

When you are speaking up at a meeting, it is absolutely critical that you appear to just be speaking.
If you seem like you've memorized something and you're kind of following a script and you're not really
focusing on people, it's not going to seem like you're totally there.
It's not going to seem like you're incredibly confident.
It may seem a little artificial state.
Now, I'm not talking about when you've been asked to give a ten minute presentation, it's fine to
be prepared for that, to have notes.
But to simply ask a question or to weigh in on a particular issue of the day that's being discussed
in your group.
You need to sound conversational.
You need to sound like you're thinking and talking at the same time.
Now, it's okay to have thought about the ideas that you want to convey in this meeting, whether it's
a dissenting opinion on a new product release.
But it shouldn't sound memorized.
It shouldn't sound canned.
You need to sound like you're just thinking and talking the same as if you bumped into a colleague in
the hall, someone you've known and worked with for a long time and you're having a casual conversation.
That's how you need to sound when you're talking in a meeting.
Now, this can be a major trade association meeting, and there's 2000 people in the room and you have
to stand up with a microphone.
It's still going to come across better when you have it completely conversational tone.
So that means don't try to memorize.
Now, the problem, of course, is it's easy for me to say this, but if you're already nervous about
public speaking and you're already nervous about speaking up at meetings, the natural inclination is
to try to give yourself a crutch, to give yourself cover.
And that can mean trying to give yourself a whole script that you're reading and hand holding up or
that you've memorized.
I'm warning you, don't do it.
It doesn't matter if you stumble over a word occasionally.
I've stumbled over words in nearly every lecture in this course, but I don't obsess over it.
I don't apologize.
I don't look like I'm ashamed or guilty, and chances are you don't even notice it.
It's not important that your sentence structure is perfect, that your grammar is even perfect when
you're speaking.
People's ears don't catch mistakes the way their eyes do.
What is important is that people perceive you as just talking, thinking and talking and displaying
a confidence in your ideas.
That's what I want you to think about.
And confidence is where we're going next.

--- How to Give a Sales Presentation Public Speaking ---

How do you give an effective sales presentation?
At some level, every speech is a sales presentation.
You're trying to sell something, you're trying to sell an idea.
It might not be trying to get money out of people or a new client or customer, but you're always trying
to sell something.
But let's say you are trying to sell concrete or a house or any other product or service.
The main thing you've got to realize is that you have to make this real.
You have to make it tangible.
People do not buy abstractions.
The number one problem most speakers have beyond data dumping is they are too abstract.
You've got to tell people exactly what they're getting, why they're getting and the benefits to them.
And the most effective way to do that is testimonials from satisfied customers, clients, and really
walking them through how you've already changed people's lives with your product or service.
So sometimes the best way to speak is to let your customers speak for you.
The other thing you've got to do is realize you still have to ask people for their business.
It doesn't matter if you're trying to sell yourself as a candidate, you have to ask for a vote.
If you want someone to buy your mutual fund or anything else at some point.
Again, in a soft sell non-cheesy way, you need to let people know that you would be very happy to
do business with them and ask them for their business.
And I understand plenty of industries, especially financial service industries, are heavily regulated.
Always do what is legally required of you.
Don't do anything that is even close to being a legal gray area.
But to the extent that you can ask people directly for their business in a non pressure, non desperate
way, the better people like to be asked for their business.
And that is quite often the one thing people forget the most in their sales presentations.

--- The Ultimate Confidence Builder ---

When you're speaking in a meeting, you are speaking to a crowd.
Now, the crowd may be only two people, but to you, if it's not one person, it's a crowd of sorts
and it might make you uncomfortable.
Well, when you have a crowd, there is a crowd mentality.
So a part of what's going on is people are looking around to see how other people feel about you, whether
they're aware of it or not.
And they're making judgments with a lot of different data.
One of the things they're judging is how you appear to feel about yourself.
If you're kind of awkward and timid and you end sentences with question marks, even though you're making
a statement that's going to send a message that you're scared, you're timid, you're uncertain of your
ideas, since you doubt the value of your ideas, maybe they're not very good.
Therefore, why should the audience give your ideas credibility?
So I'm not suggesting you have to somehow be phony and, you know, do all this and put forth bluster.
But you do need to exude confidence when you speak confidence in your style.
Don't try to be me.
Don't try to be Ronald Reagan or Bill Clinton or Oprah Winfrey.
Although those three spoke with great confidence and still do.
Those who are alive, it's got to be your own style.
But when I say confidence, all I really mean is your volume is loud enough to be heard.
Because nervous people kind of whisper because they're afraid if they say something stupid, no one
will hear it and it won't hurt as much.
They won't look stupid.
So part of it is you have to speak loud enough for people to hear you.
And if you're in a room with 20 people, you're not going to have to yell, but you are going to have
to project a little louder than if you're talking to one person right here.
Another did a dead giveaway of lacking confidence is rushing if you speak too quickly.
If you speak too quickly, people feel like, Oh, I want to hurry up and sit down.
Don't speak too quickly.
Don't rush at all.
Now, if you make a mistake, everybody makes mistakes.
Don't beat yourself up over it.
Don't go.
Oh, 30s ago.
I made a mistake.
I mispronounced dead.
I didn't tell anyone.
I didn't stop.
I didn't say, Oh, my gosh.
I made a mistake.
I just kept going.
I corrected myself.
The correct word kept going.
Didn't wince.
Didn't look embarrassed, didn't do anything awkward.
And it becomes less noticeable.
People won't remember your mistakes, by and large, unless it's just a colossal error.
You say million and it's really billion.
And everyone knows the numbers.
A billion for the most part.
People don't notice your mistakes in what you say.
They notice your reactions to yourself.
So if you seem embarrassed or flustered or uncomfortable, if you seem like you think, Oh gosh, I'm
really sounding stupid up here.
The audience plays off on that.
They figure, well, if he thinks he's sounding stupid and awkward, it seems like a smart guy.
If he thinks he's stupid and awkward, he must be stupid and awkward.
I therefore have a negative impression of this person.
Now, I'm not suggesting that every single person in your meeting is consciously thinking like that.
I'm suggesting a lot of it is unconscious.
A lot of it is in the gut.
So you have to be aware of that.
Now, as you start this whole process, as you go from not speaking out at meetings to speaking out,
it's only natural not to be incredibly confident.
So I'm going to teach you in a moment or so in the next lecture.
How to appear to be confident so that we can at least trick these audience members.
Now, again, we're not trying to con them out of their money or anything.
We just want them to focus on what you're saying in the meeting and not on the fact that you seem nervous
or scared and, you know, doing things like this, holding a pen, fiddling with it is a sure sign
of nervousness.
Keep your hands free.
We want to appear to be calm, relaxed and having a good time when we're speaking out at this meeting.
So I need you to really give as much thought to that, in fact, more thought to that than what you're
actually saying.
No, I'm not saying that.
All that matters is how you look.
That's not it.
But they are both supremely important.
So you've got to learn how to look comfortable, confident and relaxed.
Any time you're speaking at a meeting, whether you're sitting down at a table with five people.
Are standing up in front of 500 people.
You need to look and sound relaxed.
Otherwise, people are going to be worried about you.
Focused on you.
Oh, my gosh.
Is TJ's voice cracking?
He seems so nervous.
You don't want people focused on your confidence level.
You want people focused on your ideas.
Now, here's the good news.
The more you do this, the easier it gets, the more confident you get.
A lot of things in life are not like that.
I can go out and play golf every week for years.
I'm still awful.
I'm still shooting 180 and that's cheating.
I still can't hit wood.
There are plenty of things in life where it's simply doing it more doesn't make you any better.
Speaking out at meetings is different.
It is one of those things where the more you do it, the easier it gets.
The harder it is to be nervous, the easier it is to be comfortable and therefore to do well.
So confidence is key.
Again, me saying that doesn't help yet, but I'm going to give you exercises in a moment that will
help.

--- How to Give a Motivational Speech Public Speaking ---

How do you give an effective motivational speech?
In a sense, giving a good motivational speech is one of the hardest things you can do because people
feel jaded.
Most people have heard so many motivational speakers over the years, and after a while they all start
to sound the same.
And if they haven't seen them in person, they've seen their infomercials.
The messages that come from most motivational speeches are the same.
Work hard, set your goals, overcome adversity, work every day on something you really believe in.
Pick something you have a passion for.
Associate with people who are already successful doing what?
All of those are perfectly good rules, perfectly good axioms, but frankly don't mean much to people
who've heard them 10 or 1000 times.
So if you want to stand out as an effective motivational speaker, it all comes down to your stories.
You've got to talk about how you personally did this.
You have to reveal things that involve pain for you.
You have to talk about how low you were before you overcame it.
And you have to give people a sense of how what you did is transferable to them.
It can't simply be.
I was having a tough day and I had a hard time with my business and I couldn't raise capital.
But, oh, my daddy's a billionaire.
So I got him to give me a check for $1 million.
That's not motivational.
That just creates envy.
Now, I don't want you and some people are guilty of this.
I don't want you to fabricate your biography and make yourself seem lower or more desperate than you
actually were.
But paint an accurate picture of where you were, what your problem was, how you overcame it, and
then tie it together to how other people can do that as well.
Now, this isn't my own situation, but I do know other public speakers and speaking experts who started
off stuttering in life.
So they went from speaking way, way below average to way above average.
And many prominent speakers in the world Jesse Jackson, Joe Biden, the vice president, spent years
of their lives as stutterers.
So that's highly motivational.
When people hear that they can go to such high levels as speakers knowing they started so far below.
So figure out what your story, what have you truly overcome that motivates people?
If you were born with some rare gift and everything came easily to you might be interesting.
It's not particularly motivational.
People want to know how you overcame something adverse and how they can do the same thing.
What is your secret?
What's your unique twist beyond simply hard work and focus?

--- Conclusion to Public Speaking in Meetings ---

I want to thank you for joining me for this course on how to speak up at meetings.
If you've ever had one interesting conversation with one person in your whole life, you already have
all the skills you need to speak up at any meeting, even if there are 2000 people in the room.
So focus.
Give it some thought.
Really think about how you can come across comfortable, confident, relaxed.
The most important tip of all in this course practice speaking on video, things you might say in the
actual meeting not to memorize, but to just get comfortable speaking with how you come across.
And the final tip of all is try to speak out at every meeting.
Not to say something stupid, not just to hear the sound of your own voice, but to add something of
interest or to ask a question that perhaps other people are thinking but are too timid to ask.
And this is one thing.
If you ever go to a major speech of someone famous or well known major convention, quite often there's
microphones in the rose next to the seats, and only the first ten people get to ask questions.
Don't wait for that nerve to come up and get ready and psyched up, because if you wait, then everyone
will be in front of you.
You won't have a chance to ask the question just before the speech even finishes.
Go up there, be one of the first one or 2 or 3 people there so you can ask a question.
The more you ask questions in meetings, the more comfortable you'll get speaking up at any meeting
and the more you are going to impress people with your ideas and your leadership potential.
So good luck with all your future meetings and speaking out anywhere you please in life.
I'm T.J. Walker.
Thanks for being a part of this course.

--- How to Sound Conversational in a Speech Public Speaking ---

So how do you sound conversational when you're giving a speech?
We've all heard speakers get up and it's sort of like, okay, class, today we're going to cover the
following 12 points and it just sounds awful.
It's this elevated volume, somewhat monotone, and the speaker just sounds like they're reading off
a teleprompter in their brain.
So part of it is you've got to sound like you're actually in the moment that what you're saying and
what you're thinking are in sync.
Because if you're constantly thinking about what you're going to say five seconds from now, it can
make you sound mechanical.
It can make you sound contrived as if you've memorized something, even if you haven't.
Now, this is yet another reason why I recommend not reading a speech, because it's virtually impossible
to sound conversational if you're reading a speech.
It flattens you out.
This is why I recommend speaking from a set outline where you have just bullet points three four words
to remind you of what you want to talk about and then talk about it for a couple of minutes.
Part of it is just getting comfortable.
You need to rehearse, not to memorize, but to get comfortable with your content.
So when you're talking about it, you're not having to think about it.
Think about when someone's asking you, how did you meet your spouse or What's your favorite teacher?
If you're really young.
You don't have to sit there and think about it for ten minutes.
You can just talk.
It's not that you say it word for word the same way every time, but in general, you know what you're
going to say because you've thought about it before and you've said about it.
You've said it before.
That way you can sound conversational.
Also, notice how I just messed up a second ago.
People do that in real life conversation all the time.
It's okay.
Don't beat yourself up.
Don't try to stop and edit it out and iron out all the imperfections.
Realize if you're going to give a speech and you're going to sound conversational, there will be occasional
mess ups.
There will be times when you start a sentence stop and go in another direction.
There will be times when you have sentence fragments.
You'll have repetition.
That's okay.
That's what makes you sound conversational.

--- Your Informational Speeches Will Be Understood and Remembered ---

So you had to give an informational speech.
At first blush, this seems somehow easier than giving a big sales pitch than trying to raise money
for a public offering.
There's all sorts of speeches in the world that seem difficult.
Simply giving an informational speech seems like a piece of cake.
However, here's the challenge.
If you're actually trying to communicate, it's not about the information coming out of your mouth.
It's not necessarily about the information on the PowerPoint slides.
It's about the information your audience understands and can remember.
So never lose sight of that.
You've got to really figure out how can you convey this information Now for the purposes of this training?
I'm not talking about the classroom setting.
If you're the teacher, that's a different sort of informational presentation and we have other courses
for that.
But I am talking about in the business world and the adult world for that matter, you can be a kid
giving a presentation at your Boy Scout meeting.
It's about talking to other human beings outside of the academic arena and getting them to understand
you and to remember your messages.
That's what we're trying to do here.
So if you're ready, let's hop in.

--- You Will Go Beyond the Usual Data Dump ---

So you're giving an informational speech.
The good news is you don't have to be wildly entertaining.
You're not the comedian for the night.
You don't have to be incredibly charming.
You're not the master of ceremonies and you don't have to be funny.
So that's good news.
But we still need a specific goal for this informational speech.
I want to know exactly what information do you have?
Do you know that you want this audience to understand and remember?
Now, I got to tell you right now, the biggest problem most people have when they're giving informational
speeches is they give way too much information.
They throw it all out there.
It's abstract.
It's disconnected.
There are no examples.
There are no case studies.
There are no stories.
Nobody remembers anything.
Okay.
I'll ask you the same question I've asked people I've worked with for the last 30 years, all over the
all over the world.
And that is this.
Think of the best speaker you've seen.
Give an informational speech or any other type of speech in the last year or the last five years.
Now, How many pieces of information do you remember from that speech?
If you had to go up to a blackboard now and write it down or write it down on your computer, how many
numbers, facts, bits of information do you remember from the best speaker you've ever seen?
I've asked that question for years, and quite often people don't remember anything or they remember
one point, sometimes two, three, occasionally four.
Once every six months, someone will remember five ideas, five bits of information from the best speaker
they've seen in the last five years or maybe ever.
And yet these very same people get up to practice their informational speech in front of me.
And what do you know?
They've got 27 bullet points on the first slide and 13 complex charts on the second slide and four charts
on the third slide.
It's way, way, way too much information.
So here's the dirty little secret.
It's incredibly easy to give an informational speech.
It's much harder or much rarer to give an informational speech where there's a transfer of information
from your brain into the brains and memories of the audience.
So that's really what our focus should be, not just giving an informational speech, but giving an
effective informational speech so that there's an information transfer.
And to not assume like in an academic setting, that people are writing it down and studying it because
you've got the ability to give them a big test next Friday.
I'm operating under the assumption that this isn't a classroom setting where you're giving this informational
presentation, and because of that, we simply don't have the luxury of throwing out lots of data and
assuming everyone's writing it down and studying it.
So everything we're doing in this course is based on this assumption that it's actually pretty hard
to get people to remember information.
So we've got to spend a lot of time isolating what are the ideas, the messages, the information we
want people to understand and remember, and now how do we spend the rest of the time making it memorable?
Now we're not doing this to be funny or to be entertaining or to be overly emotional or to convince
people to give us their wallets.
It's not about that.
It's just this basic low level goal of trying to communicate information in a way that people can digest.
That's what it's all about.
So the starting point for you is to figure out what are your messages, what's the actual information
that's most important to you that you want to communicate in this speech?

--- Testing In a Way that Eliminates Risk ---

The good news about informational speeches is that it's very, very easy to test whether it works or
not.
People like to have this idea that public speaking is a soft skill.
It's like a little puppy and you don't really know what could happen.
It's just a mystery.
Now that's a complete, utter garbage.
Now, if you've done what I've asked so far and you've really practiced on video and you've practiced
and you've gotten to the point where you really like a video you see and you haven't yet given your
speech in real life, I want you to take that video that you've done that you're proud of, that you
like.
Send it to 3 or 4 people who are similar to the audience you'll be speaking to in real life, or maybe
some of them actually are the audience.
Ask them to watch it once and to call you right away.
Once you talk to them, ask them, Tell me, what messages do you remember from that speech?
What do you take away?
What information do you take away?
Not whether they like your speech.
They could tell you they like your speech.
You're great, you're charming, you're charismatic, completely irrelevant.
You're simply trying to figure out, did they retain the information?
Now, let's go back to that list of the five ideas, the five main pieces of information you wanted
to convey in this speech.
Call them up.
Ask them what they remembered if they throw back in your face those five ideas that were important to
you.
And I don't mean the same order, the same wording, but just basically at some conceptual level, did
they throw back in your face the five ideas you were trying to convey?
If so, congratulations.
You are five for five 100%.
There's not a professional speaker in the entire world who can ever do better than that.
That's perfect.
However, if they're only getting one or 2 or 3 of those messages or none of those messages, if they're
just telling you you're great, you're charming, you're fantastic, that means you fail.
That means you now have empirical evidence that the way you convey this information in your presentation
didn't work.
You need to take your speech, tear it up, throw it away and start again.
You can differ with me on my opinions of speaking, and there's all sorts of theories about who can
be right, who can be wrong.
But I'll tell you somebody who's never wrong, your audience, if they don't remember your messages,
your information, it's not their fault.
It is your fault.
So it's your job to go back, start over if you have to.
Let's come up with messages.
Let's come up with information.
Convey it in a way that an audience member can listen, not have to write down everything word for word
and remember your message.
Do that and you'll be in great shape.

--- Final Tips on Giving Informational Speeches ---

This concludes our course on how to give an effective informational speech.
What I hope you really took away is the idea of it's not about what comes out of your mouth or even
if you have great eye contact.
It's about can you get people to actually understand and remember the ideas, the information you're
trying to convey?
And the biggest problem most people have is they just try to convey way too much information.
They're not using their judgment.
So you're not going to make that mistake.
You're going to really use your judgment to figure out what are the handful of ideas, the information
this audience really has to know, and then spend your time making it more understandable, making it
more memorable with examples, with case studies and stories.
The most effective tool of all, if you do that and you actually practice on video and get to the point
where you like what you see, you're going to be in good shape.
And if you really want to take it up a notch and just completely eliminate the chance of failure, you
test your informational speech in advance on people.
You find 3 or 4 colleagues who are representative of the audience you'll be speaking to.
Send them the video and see if they get the information you're after.
If they get it, you are ready and you're going to succeed if your test audience doesn't get it, well,
it's time to make more changes to lift the hood up, get back into that speech and make it more memorable.
Come up with more examples and better case studies.
Keep doing it until you're satisfied with how you like it and how your sample audience likes that.
Do that and you'll be great at giving informational speeches.
Good luck.

--- Thank You to One of My Mentors Bill Gove ---

This section here is a bonus section.
There are a lot of other additional elements on how to be a better speaker I wanted to share with you
and there was no other logical place to put them, so I put these videos here.
I also wanted to give a special thanks to one of my mentors, the late Bill Gove.
Bill Gove was one of the founders of the National Speakers Association and was a fantastic speaker in
it from the very beginning of the speaking industry.
I met him at a time where I was at a low point in my career.
It was 1995.
I'd had a nationally syndicated talk radio show basically go down the tubes.
I was trying to recreate myself and my speaking and training career.
Bill took pity upon me.
He said, Come on down to South Florida.
I was living in central Florida at the time.
I'm going to help you.
So I went down to his condo complex.
He didn't charge me a thing for this.
It was just the sheer goodness of his heart.
And I'll never forget what he said.
He said, T.J., tell a story, make a point.
And that's what we did all day long.
He was very disciplined.
He didn't let me go to a second point until I told a story about the first one.
So Bill is no longer with us, but his spirit lives on, his generosity lives on.
And I hope you have gotten a lot out of this course.
So much of it was motivated by my instruction from Bill and also that you continue to get more out of
it by telling your own story.
So enjoy this section and the for you to come.

--- Classic TJ on Stories ---

So you've narrowed your key messages down to just five.
That's great, but we can't just tell people here are my five messages.
Got to go after 30 seconds.
It doesn't work like that.
You've got to do everything you can in the time you have with your speech or your presentation to make
those messages not only understood, but remembered.
Now, let me tell you a little secret here.
Now I say it's a secret.
Every book on public speaking says this, and yet nobody ever does it.
So somehow it's a basic concept that doesn't sink through.
You need to have a story for every one of your message.
What's the biggest difference between great speakers and awful ones and average ones is that great speakers
have a story to flesh out every single message point they have.
It's not a luxury.
It's not just open the speech.
It's not the clothes.
Not to be funny.
It's to illustrate the point so the audience can remember it.
Now, here's the other big fact of life.
Everything I mean, every single client I have whose awful is boring, who just does a data dump or
who's just average, they never use stories.
They just go in a straightforward way.
Here's a fact.
Here's a bullet point.
Here's a no.
It's it's straightforward, factual stuff and it's awful.
Nobody remembers it.
And it's not interesting.
Now, there's a lot of confusion about stories people tell me all the time.
Well, T.J., I love stories, but I'm not a natural storyteller or I'm in finance and I'm just giving
the numbers or I'm giving a purely technical speech.
Well, let me disabuse you of those notions.
Right now, there is no such thing as a financial speech or a technical speech or a PowerPoint speech.
Those are all just silly concepts we have in our head when we're giving speeches.
There's only two types of speeches in the entire world.
You know what they are?
That's right.
It's either good or it's bad.
From the standpoint of the audience.
When you are in the audience, you're not thinking, wow, I sure am glad this person is giving me a
formal presentation.
Are this sure is a good financial reason.
Now, that's not what you're thinking of.
The only thing you're thinking of when you're in the audience is this is good.
It's interesting.
It's useful.
I'm going to pay attention or this guy is awful.
It's boring.
It's tedious.
I look at the PowerPoint later.
Meanwhile, let me check up on email from the office.
That's the only thing going on in the minds of your audience.
So great speakers adapt to the mindset of their audience, and that's what you've got to do.
So you've got to figure out what are the ideas you're trying to communicate and now how can you use
every tool to make it come alive?
And the number one tool you have at your disposal is a story.
Now, a story doesn't have to be funny.
It doesn't have to be overly emotional.
The only thing a story is, is you recounting a real conversation you had with a real person about a
real problem in a real place.
What was it, what that person said to you, what you said back, how it was resolved and how you felt
about it?
That's it.
That's all there is to it.
All of us tell stories all the time.
You're stopping off on the way home and you fill up with gas and someone cuts you off and curses at
you.
You don't then go home and tell your spouse at five twenty two.
I left the office at five thirty two.
I pulled into a gas station at five thirty three.
There was a minor altercation and unpleasantries were exchanged at five forty four I left.
I mean that's kind of how most people give speeches.
Boring, straightforward, fat fact.
You're going to say to your spouse, can't believe what happened to me today.
I was pulling into the Exxon and this guy comes in honking, honking.
I'm looking around and he's like, get out of my way, buddy.
And he proceeded to take the gas pump, had put it in as if he owned the I mean, that's how human beings
talk like that, drive a car.
But I think you get my point.
All human beings tell stories all day long.
Now, what's different about a speech is people tell themselves, oh, I'm not giving a formal presentation.
Let me push away all the stories and just stick to the facts and be concise.
Let me tell you right now, your goal in giving a speech is never and I mean never to be concise.
Your goal is to communicate, you can be concise, stand up, sit down after 30 seconds, nobody remembered
anything.
You said you accomplished absolutely nothing.
But maybe you speak for 20 minutes, maybe three hours.
If you're giving people good value, if you're really helping them, if you're doing something to make
their lives better, their jobs better, their bottom line better, they'll listen to you for a long
time.
Now, I'm not saying just go on and on for three hours, but your focus should be on making your ideas
remembered and making sure you have useful ideas, not simply being concise.
That is a false goal that many, many speakers have.
Stories sometimes take a long time.
Maybe you tell a story in 30 seconds.
It's not overly complicated, but if you have a point that you want people to remember, you're better
off giving a story to make it meaningful.
One of the points I'm going to stress in our next lesson is you've really got to practice on video if
you want to see for yourself where you are, what your strengths are, what your weaknesses are and
how to improve.
Now, I've been using video ever since I started 30 years ago, and there was a time when it was difficult.
You had to bring in some production crew and cameras were this big.
These days, everyone surrounded by video cameras.
You've got one in your cell phone, likely iPads, webcams everywhere.
It's really, really cheap.
Now, I remember a time more than a decade ago I was doing my very first training over in Eastern Europe
and I was in a former dictator's palace and it was quite elaborate.
And I wasn't training a dictator.
I was training a popularly elected prime minister of a small Eastern European country.
But I was a little nervous.
It was my first time in that part of the world.
Prime minister has all of his guards, his bodyguards with machine guns around.
We're ready to practice the prime minister's speech.
And he said to me, T.J., do you mind if this first time we practice in my native language, he was
fluent in English?
So do you mind if we practice in my native language?
Sure.
No problem, Mr. Prime Minister.
So he stood up, gave his speech, and he proceeded to do this.
The he basically read his speech.
He asked me what I thought.
I said, well, let's watch the video together.
So we watch the video.
He then said, T.J., what did you think?
I said, I'll tell you what I think.
But first, I want you to tell me exactly what you thought he said.
And I'll tell you I'll tell you why I want to hear your opinion first.
And I thought, wow, this guy was really boring.
It was awful.
And what do I do?
I'm surrounded by armed guards.
I'm in a whole nother place of the world.
I don't know what the situation is.
Some of them look quite menacing.
I tell them the truth.
I thought, you know what?
He's paying me a bunch of money to give him the truth.
I'll tell him the truth.
So I said, Mr. Prime Minister, with all due respect, I don't know what you said, but you bore the
hell out of me.
He looked shocked.
He looked at me.
He looked at all of his armed guards.
He looked back to the TV and then he said, TJ, you're right.
It was boring as hell.
It's awful.
Here's what we got to do.
And this is speech.
It threw it away and we did what I had to do with most of my clients.
We got a clean sheet of paper, we got a pen and we started from scratch.
And we tried to boil it down to just five messages.
And we did the speech again and we kept videotaping it until he could look at it and say, T.J., now
this is a guy I would want to listen to.
OK, so what did I do there?
All I did was tell a story.
Was it funny now?
Was it overly dramatic?
Not really, but it was real.
I mean, that actually happened to me.
And all I'm trying to do is drive home the point that it is important to videotape your practice because
you'll see things that you weren't aware of.
You'll be more aware of your strengths and weaknesses, and it's really the only way to get a sense
of how you're doing.
So it's a simple story and only took a couple of minutes, but it had a character had the prime minister
had a setting.
I'm in a dictator's palace.
Isolated in Eastern Europe, it had a problem.
This guy was giving a really boring solution.
It did have a solution.
He had to look at it and figure out what he didn't like.
And we redid it.
It had a little bit of motion.
It was a little bit nervous about a telling him that being in foreign circumstances.
So it had the elements.
Is that the greatest story ever told?
Now, is it going to win Pulitzer Prize?
No, but it does help people remember that message a little more effectively.
And that's got to be your big problem that you've got to focus on.
How do you get people to remember your ideas?
As I mentioned earlier, the big problem most speakers have is not that they break out and flop sweat.
It's not that they freeze.
It's not even that their PowerPoint stops or breaks that are Balbert breaks.
But that does happen.
The number one problem most speakers have is they stand up, they give their presentation, their ties
straight to their dresses, just straight their hair the way they want it with whatever they have.
And everything goes according to plan.
But then if you walked around the audience or the conference table afterwards with one hundred dollar
bill and put it in front of people and say, you can keep that money, all you have to do is tell me
two ideas that Speaker talked about.
Guess what?
You would never have to give away any money.
That's the real tragedy of most speakers.
Stories are the solution.
When I ask audiences all over the world, what do they remember the most about great speakers?
They remember two things, the passion and the stories.
And they're linked because when people are telling stories, that's when their passion comes out.
So a lot of people have the mistaken notion that, well, I'll fit a story and if there's time and yet
there's no time because they have so many data points.
A story is not a luxury.
It is a fundamental building block of what it takes to communicate effectively.
Now, just as I'm mentioning everything in this video, this whole series of videos, there is a section
in the books that I give you for the homework at the very end of the whole course that will tell you
exactly every one of these elements in the story will give you even more examples of anything I'm talking
about here.
There is a chapter in both of the books that I'm giving you.
So don't worry about writing everything down now.
But the fundamental thing is you've got to have a story.
Examples are also good.
Case studies are good.
All of these things will help your audience.
Remember, that's what's going to make your speech successful or not.
It's not about having perfect eye contact and timber or voice or lowering your voice.
All these things people think matter.
If you have interesting, important, relevant messages and great stories that make it come alive,
you'll be seen as a great speaker, even if your tie is crooked or you have some arms or people forget
all that if you have good, compelling stories.
Now, people ask me all the time, T.J., can I make up stories?
Well, you could, but why would you want to?
That's hard work.
The beauty of a story is you can see it.
I mean, I can see that prime minister there still, even though it's been more than a decade, the
best stories aren't made up.
It's simply you recounting a real conversation you had with the real person.
You can see it.
That makes it not abstract.
Abstraction is your enemy as a speaker, not because the people you're talking to are stupid and don't
understand abstraction.
Abstraction is a problem because without people seeing it, they don't remember it.
Think of it this way.
What's easier for you to remember if you just met someone, their name on a business card or their face?
For most of us, it's the face that's easier to remember, not the name.
That's because you actually visualize a face.
You see a face words on a business card.
Those are just abstractions.
So here's your homework.
You need to come up with a story for each one of the five message points you created in your earlier
homework.
And if you tell me I teach, I don't really have a story for that.
Guess what that means?
It's not an important point.
Now, let's say it's purely a financial presentation if.
Profits are up twenty two percent from last quarter, you could say, well, that's just a number.
There's no story.
There is a story.
What is driving that growth?
What's the one product?
What's the one thing that happened to the economy?
What's the one element of publicity that drove that?
Tell me about a conversation you had with your number one client or your number one salesperson talking
about this new growth engine.
There is a story for anything unless you tell me that the only thing you do all day long is sit back
and read the paper.
And at five o'clock you get an email from your boss saying, good job, go home.
All of us have stories to tell because we all have phone conversations, if nothing else, with a client,
a customer, a colleague who's got a problem and you've got to deal with it.
Those are the stories that will make your presentation come a lot.
So that's your homework right now.
You don't have to write it out word for word, but you need a few words to trigger this memory and use
to think about how you're going to say it.
So now you need to have an outline on a single sheet of paper or a single computer screen, your five
big bullet points, your five main ideas, and then you need two or three words that will trigger in
your own memory a story for each one of your points.
That's your homework.
Go ahead and do it right now.

--- Course Update - You Should Get on the TikTok App Now ---

Hi, This is a quick update to this course and all my courses.
There's a new opportunity I wanted to share with you.
It doesn't matter if you're trying to become a better public speaker, communicator, media communicator
or you're trying to build personal development habits, whether it's being more creative, having more
purpose in life.
There's something new I wanted to share with you that I think is such a good opportunity and it costs
nothing.
You should hop in right now.
That opportunity is Tick tock.
This is the first major new platform, social media, really in the last decade that is taking off and
seeing exponential growth.
Now, you may have heard that TikTok is just for little kids, 12 year olds and teenagers.
And it is true.
That's where it started.
And it's still very popular with that crew.
But more than 1.5 billion people have downloaded TikTok and there are more than 500 million regular
users every single month.
Why am I excited about it?
Well, it's frankly too late to easily just post a video on YouTube or even Facebook and have thousands
of views come in and really have quick audience and engagement.
TikTok is different.
Their algorithms are different, and you can make a video have absolutely no following whatsoever and
very quickly have thousands of views for a video, tens, even hundreds of thousands of views in your
first month on TikTok.
Why is that important?
It's such a great, simple, easy way of practicing communication, practicing, spreading your ideas,
sharing your ideas, formulating ideas, building your own habits, and getting your ideas out to the
world.
This is an empowering thing because it's frankly very frustrating to spend a week or two editing and
re-editing and scripts and all sorts of special effects for a YouTube video and have three views come
out.
TikTok is different.
You just pick up your phone and you can talk.
The other reason I like TikTok for all of my students is it's a great way to easily, even daily build
your public speaking skills and your confidence and your communication skills, your media skills and
your confidence skills.
You don't have to have some big script.
You don't have to have a TV studio like this.
You just download the TikTok app.
You go to your app store, download the TikTok app.
I've got mine right here.
You push a button and you talk for 15 seconds.
Now you could get fancier and edit.
You could put music lip sync.
I think the easiest application for you and all of my students is to simply share one idea that you
have that is useful to your customers clients prospects, your community, people who care about what
you do.
This is a great way to showcase your creativity, your thought, your intellectual property.
I do want every single day, seven days a week, vacation or not, because it's so simple, it's so
quick, it's so easy.
This builds confidence.
Now let me say it right up front.
I'm not an investor in TikTok.
I don't own TikTok.
I benefit from this In no way.
I'm not selling anything.
The TikTok app is free as long as you have a cell phone, which I assume you do, you can download the
TikTok app and start communicating right away.
I know that for many of you, it's been frustrating to learn how to speak on camera, formulate ideas,
formulate new good habits, produce something and then crickets.
You don't hear from anyone.
The beauty of TikTok is they quickly put your videos out in front of hundreds and hundreds of people
every single time and you are going to get feedback.
I have received more meaningful comments and feedback from people on TikTok than I have all other social
media platforms combined, sometimes over a several year period, more comments in a week or even a
day on TikTok videos.
It's also, as I mentioned, the first new social media platform that's come out in the last decade
that is really had exponential growth that's still here and where it's easy for a newcomer to hop in.
You might be a teenager, you might be someone in the late 50s like me.
You could be 85 years old.
But if you want to share, it's quick, it's easy, it's simple.
I urge you to go ahead download the TikTok app and it's just spelled Tick tock app on your cell phone
right now.
And go ahead and make a video.
Try to do it, if not a daily basis, then a weekly.
Basis.
You will not regret it.

--- Update to The Complete Storytelling Course for Speaking & Presenting ---

This is an update to the complete storytelling course.
So what is new in the world of storytelling?
Since I first made this course several years ago?
Some things are new.
There are more and more technologies that allow you to share your story across the globe with multiple
audiences these days.
Every single video file sharing service, every single social media site for that matter, allows you
to post video.
And video is the perfect place for sharing your story.
Stories should be spoken.
That is the best forum.
So the good news is you've never had more opportunities to share your story.
I personally share stories five times a day on about a dozen different social media platforms.
Now, you don't have to do that.
And I don't mean to sound like I'm bragging.
I don't have 10 billion views, but I am putting my story out there on various personal development
issues that I want to spotlight that I think will help people.
You can do the same.
Now, you may want to do just one video a week.
It could be one a month, but figure out some forum where you can share stories about your life that
will help other people and your industry and your experiences that will help other people put it out
there on a regular basis.
Don't wait until just a yearly annual conference with people in your industry.
Don't wait until you're called upon.
Don't wait until you're hired to give a keynote speech on stage with Anthony Robbins.
Seek out opportunities every single day because they're here every day online, on every social media
platform.
Now, there are some changes.
A lot of social media platforms really value short videos.
TikTok famously is sweeping the world.
Initially, they were 15 seconds long, then a minute, now longer.
But there are a lot of opportunities to make videos.
Less than 60 seconds to get them in front YouTube shorts, other platforms.
Don't let that be an excuse.
You can still tell a story in less than 60 seconds.
It might not be as long or as detailed as what you might do in eight or 10 minutes, but you can still
have elements, you can still be interesting.
The other thing that's changed in storytelling since I first made this course, your story, your story
needs to constantly change, whether you're telling the story of your startup, your career, your life,
the story you tell Someone interviewing you for a job when you're 22 should be very different than a
job you're applying for.
When you're 28 or 48 or 68.
Always be updating your stories to give people the best possible sense of what you're about right now
and to spotlight the ideas you're trying to share.
So great stories don't stay stuck in time.
They evolve, they improve, they get refined.
So I'm hoping you're having a lot of fun and success with your storytelling.
But remember, it's not a place you just arrive.
It's a continual, gradual process, getting better and better as your stories evolve over time.
Good luck.

--- Storytelling can be Enhanced by using ChatGPT ---

This is an update to the complete storytelling course.
There's a fantastic new technology out that I think should be a part of the toolkit of any storyteller.
I am coming to you at the very end producing this video at the very end of January 2023.
By the time you see this, there may already be artificial intelligence programs like Chat GPT everywhere
and every search engine in every word processor, but it's still new right now and people are trying
to figure out how to use it.
I think it's a fantastic resource and I want to stress resource for storytellers, communicators, anyone
who has to tell a story for business life, whether it's a job interview or seeking investment capital.
It's not quite so simple as to say I have a new business, I want to raise $1,000,000, write me a story
that investors will salivate over and I'll just read it word for word.
It's not that simple.
But what it can do is give you suggestions for story topics.
Let's say you have five messages in a particular presentation you're giving, and one of the messages
or two, you just can't think of a great story.
You have personal messages and personal stories for the others, but you just haven't come up with a
great story.
So one of the things you can do is just type in and say, Here's a message I'm trying to convey in a
presentation.
What would be a great story to flesh this out?
Now, I'm not suggesting that you just say a story and talk about the time when you flew around the
world and almost starve to death if it didn't actually happen to you.
I don't want you to use the chat function to just make up stuff and say it as if it really happened
to you.
I want you to be authentic and I want you to be honest.
But what I have found works well is ask for a suggestion on story topics for a particular message.
And quite often I think what you'll see and what I see is it will suggest a story and it makes you think,
Oh yeah, that actually did happen to me with a client.
Or a customer.
I forgot about it.
Once you see the suggestion on a screen in text, the story will come back to you so it can be graded.
Jogging your own memory for particular stories.
Now the other thing you can do and there's nothing wrong with this as long as you give attribution,
is to use other people's stories, as long as you give credit.
Anthony Robbins is a world renowned storyteller.
A lot of his stories are about himself.
When he was in a bachelor pad, apartment, 300 square feet, washing dishes in his tub.
Those are authentic stories.
But he also does a great job of telling the story of Sylvester Stallone, the actor director, and all
the things he did to make Rocky and to make sure he stayed in it, having to sell his own dog.
It's a compelling story, and Anthony Robbins tells it very well because he follows the structure that
we talk about in this course.
There's a setting, there's a problem, there are characters, there's emotion, there's resolution.
And he doesn't try to say it happened to him.
He makes it very clear.
That it was Sylvester Stallone's life story, but he's using it to make a point.
About how you have to really be prepared to sacrifice and persevere if something is important enough
for you to accomplish.
So it's very effective.
Even though it's not Anthony Robbins story and he's not plagiarizing anything, he gives clear cut credit
to Sylvester Stallone.
And Sylvester Stallone has said this in many places.
So it's not that important to source where he first heard it.
That is where I think that chat GPT and other forms of generative artificial intelligence can help you
because there may be well-known stories to others that you just haven't heard of, but it might really
help.
You make the point you want to get across in your own story.
The other thing is sometimes it's very easy to tell a story.
It's clear in your own mind.
But you've left out elements.
You've left out a setting, You've left out emotion.
You left out dialogue.
And that's a great area where you could transcribe the story as you told it in your rough draft.
But then ask Chad or some other program to rewrite your story, but to include more dialogue, to have
a richer setting, to put more emotion into it.
Of course, you need to go through and figure out this didn't really happen.
I don't want to use this or this doesn't work.
That's not quite right.
You need to tailor it to you to make it authentic to you, to make it real.
But when people are telling stories and you're bringing in dialogue of what this customer said to you
or this person on the street said to you and you said back, it's not a form of journalism.
No one is generally going to get upset if you paraphrased it and made the words sound like they're fresh
in dialogue.
So it's not cheating unless you're doing this for an academic paper or a journalistic enterprise like
the New York Times, it's not cheating to essentially create dialogue for a story that actually happened
to you because no one's expecting you to have written it down.
Something that happened a year ago, five years ago, ten years ago.
So that's another fantastic tool that is generative artificial intelligence and specifically chat GPT,
which is the first one out to widespread usage, can do to help you.
Word of caution.
Do not simply expect an artificial intelligence program to write your stories for you and to write your
speech with great stories.
I think you're asking for trouble.
It's not going to seem authentic.
There could be factual mistakes.
And there could be bias and discriminatory remarks put in there, because what the generative AI is
doing is just aggregating all other data it's found on the Internet, and that can be full of mistakes.
But it can be a fantastic tool.
It's also great for strength, for lengthening, shortening, expanding, contracting.
You may have a story that's completely authentic to you.
You've done it in a practice video.
It's 8 minutes long.
There's nothing preventing you from putting the transcript of that.
Into something like Chat GPT and say please shorten this by 60%.
And for something like that, I really think it does a great job and let it know you want to keep the
essential parts in.
You want the dialogue in, you still want the setting in, but tighten it up.
It's fantastic at doing that.
You may have an hour long speech filled with five stories and you want a nice executive summary to send
out to an investor or.
Colleagues are employees and you could simply feed in the text of your entire presentation and ask for
chat GPT or some other program to create a nice 500 word executive summary.
I know for me personally, things like that take more time sometimes than writing the hours speech.
We're too close to it.
And it's not like you're selling the summary as an original work on Amazon.
You're not selling it as a movie.
You're not trying to get it printed in The New York Times and it's pulling from your own ideas anyway.
So I think that's a clear cut positive use story for the program.
So please check it out.
I think it can be any storyteller's, if not best friend, a very, very good friend and a helpful friend.
So try it because your competitors are going to be using it, your colleagues are going to be using
it.
And if you're not well versed on how to use technology like this, it's going to put you at an extreme
disadvantage.

--- One Last Chance! ---

Wow.
We have come a long way together.
I hope you're feeling more comfortable and confident about your storytelling abilities.
This section is going to go over a few more really important things, but I wanted to just take a moment.
Last time.
Beg you.
I don't mean ask you.
I mean beg.
I get on my knees now.
If I didn't get out of the frame, but I'm going to beg you to record yourself on video delivering your
story about a point that is important to you and posting it right here in the Q&amp;A section.
My biggest regret the thing that saddens me the most, is I see tens of thousands of students come through
my online courses for this one and other public speaking and presentation skills courses every year,
far less than 1% ever post a video of themselves speaking.
So I am begging you, it's not too late if you haven't done it yet.
To post a video of yourself giving a speech, telling your story, I can watch it.
Your fellow students can watch it and I can give a personalized critique.
Imagine how you would feel if you were a local swim instructor.
And every summer dozens, hundreds of kids come to your class on how to learn how to swim.
And at the end of the summer, only 1 or 2 kids had gotten in the water.
You probably wouldn't feel like you're making that big of an impact on kids swimming skills.
Now, I don't want to bum you out or make you feel like I'm bummed out because I'm very happy to help
the people I do help, especially in my live in-person workshops.
But you're right here today, right now in this online course, and I want to help you the most I can.
So if you take away nothing else in this whole course, my number one principle is practice your stories
on video until you like them.
And if you want to take it up a notch, let other people review the videos and get feedback from them
on what they remember.
So this is my last chance right now to beg you to do that, to post your video right here in this course.
I will still critique it.
There are no hard feelings if you didn't do all the earlier exercises when I asked you to.
I won't chastise you for that.
I'll simply watch your video, give you my assessment of your strengths, and also my assessment of
what you need to do to make your storytelling abilities even stronger.
So please do that now.
Thanks.

--- Continue to Watch Great Storytellers Regularly ---

We're getting close to the end here.
I want to reinforce a few basic ideas that I think will set you on the path of continued growth as a
storyteller throughout your career.
And one is to simply watch more speakers, watch great speakers who are known for being great storytellers.
I'm as guilty as the next person who just sort of sits back and, Oh, it's after dinner time.
I want to relax and just watching some silly comedy on Netflix.
Look, there's a place for that in life.
You do need some downtime.
But some of those times, instead of just clicking on the latest sitcom or blockbuster movie where you
already know what's going to happen.
Watch more Ted Talks.
Go to YouTube and watch speakers you like.
You admire.
You respect.
Sometimes you can learn even more by watching someone a second or third time.
This way you already know what the content is.
You can really analyze how they're telling their stories.
What are they doing?
How are they building a sense of drama?
How are they painting a picture of the problem and how it was resolved?
So try to spend some time.
It doesn't have to be hours a day, even five minutes a week.
Watching the best parts of a great speaker online will help you become better and better as you improve
your own storytelling abilities.

--- Curate Your Own Personal Library of Stories ---

Final big tip for you right here we talked about earlier, I want to stress this again one last time,
and that is build your own database of stories that will help you amplify important points.
You know, you want to speak about great speakers do this.
They create a database, whether you want to think of it as the metaphor of a jukebox or a database
or a TV that has every kind of show packaged in it.
Think of your stories.
Come up with names for them and recycle them.
Reuse them.
It may be a little boring for you to tell a story the fifth or 10th time, but if it's a great story
that resonates with the audience and the audience hasn't heard it before, reuse that story.
Remember when you're speaking, when you're telling stories, it's never about you.
It's about your audience.
Protect your database of stories.
Nurture it.
When you've got a free moment every couple of months, just go through and look at it, See if there's
anything you can add.
You might want it on paper, some of you old fashioned.
You might want to just keep a folder in your Google Drive within your email, however you want to store
it on your cell phone.
It doesn't really matter as long as it's something you can look at, whether it's on a piece of paper,
a cell phone or a computer screen.
Look at this database.
Add to it.
Make this your friend.
It will serve you well throughout your life.

--- Time to Give TJ a Piece of Your Mind ---

What would you do if you were me?
By that, I mean, if you were the person who made this course, what would you do to make it better?
Here's your chance.
I really want to hear from you.
Now, I hope you love the course as is.
But nothing's perfect.
I want to know if you see anything that you think is bad, Needs to be changed, needs improvement.
Let me know.
But beyond that, beyond just looking for the negatives, I want to know what would it take to make
this an even greater experience?
What would it take to make this course the best course you've ever had here on this platform or any
other platform?
So sound off, believe me, I've got a pretty thick skin.
So you're not going to offend me, but please give me specific things that I can do to tinker with it.
Tweak, change.
Delete some videos, upload new ones.
I'm open.
I want to hear from you because ultimately, this course isn't about me.
It's about you.
What can create the best learning experience for you?
So please put your thinking cap on and let me know.
Post your comments right here in the Q&amp;A section if it's at all possible for me to make the changes.
Believe me, I will.
I want to make this course better and better and better.
Thanks.

--- 275 Conclusion Best Wishes for a Lifetime of Great Stories ---

Wow, you've done it.
Our journey is reaching an end.
I appreciate you spending this time with me to really build your storytelling abilities.
I hope you've gotten a lot out of this course.
I'd certainly love to continue our relationship.
And remember, just because you're in this course, you can always come back.
There'll be updates to the course.
I'll be sending out more announcements and you can always write in with your questions.
Most important, you can post your videos of yourself speaking, but I hope what you really took away
from this course is you already have the ability to tell a story.
You just have to think about it and structure it and focus on it when you're trying to do so for a specific
business or professional purpose.
And the basics are pretty simple.
Ask yourself, what are you trying to get the audience to do?
What messages will really motivate them to do that?
And then for each message, tell a simple story involving a conversation between a couple of characters.
Ideally you.
What was the problem?
How did you feel?
How was it solved?
What were the emotions involved?
What were the challenges and ultimately how was it resolved?
And what's the lesson that you took away and that you think others do?
Do that, do that consistently, and you will be a master storyteller.
Good luck.

--- Quick Win! Here is How to Look Your Best in Front of a Video Camera ---

Let's start off with a quick win.
Everyone wants to look their best on video.
Here's the problem, though.
If your video conferencing from home and you're comfortable and relaxed.
Here I am kind of sitting back in my chair and what do you notice?
Kind of looking up my nose.
You see about three chins.
The camera makes you look heavier.
Here's the quick tip.
Lean forward about 15 degrees into the camera when you're speaking.
Notice I don't have three chins anymore.
The jawline is much stronger, the face is more prominent, and I look better.
This is the secret to looking your best.
One of them, anyway.

--- Setting the meeting objective -- a critical factor to success ---

What is the purpose of your online meeting?
Sometimes it pays to actually write it down or at least have it crystallized in your brain in one sentence.
The problem with some meetings, whether they're virtual or not, is that they have no purpose.
People are getting together because they feel like, well, we have to have a meeting.
You need to do everything you can to make sure everyone understands what the purpose is of your meeting.
Because if people are confused, it's even easier for people to daydream or get distracted in a virtual
meeting because if the camera's not on them, Twitter, Facebook, blogs.
All right here.
So that is the fundamental starting point for any meeting, whether it's virtual or in person.
What is the clear cut purpose of the meeting and what specific outcome are you looking for?
If you're pitching someone for new business, you're trying to convince them to hire you.
If you are talking to your other managers on a sales strategy, you need buy in on what the strategy
is going to be.
Every single time you meet with someone and speak, you should have some outcome in mind.
Now it may just be to keep them apprised of the work you've been doing in your section for the last
quarter and letting them know that you're doing good work.
But there needs to be something specific and concrete.
Now, if you are a participant in the meeting and it's not yours, try to focus on just one idea you
really want to communicate and what you want people to do with that.
So that is the starting point.
The starting point is not, Oh, what camera should I use?
The starting point is not should I use makeup or not?
The starting point for an online meeting is the same place as any other meeting.
What is it that you hope to accomplish?
Really nail that down first before every meeting.

--- Coronavirus Update and Impact on Video Conferencing ---

Let's get real here for a minute.
The coronavirus has changed life as we know it on this planet for billions of human beings and for business
as its been conducted.
You may, for the first time in your life, be working from home, a home office or just a home kitchen
counter and having to conduct meetings.
Nobody likes this situation.
What we have to make the best of it.
It's no longer a luxury.
It's no longer something you say only the high tech people do of meeting online using video.
Now everyone has to do it if they want to survive.
So dive into this course.
Let's get a lot out of it.
Ideally, we can have face to face, real life meetings again soon.
But if not, let's figure out how to master this medium and continue with our work.

--- Learn How Video Conference Meetings Are the Same & Different From Other Meetings ---

Videoconference meetings are in some ways exactly like any other meeting, and in some ways they are
unique.
They are different.
It's similar to other meetings in that if people are talking and it's boring or you're delivering a
data dump or you're not engaging, it's going to be kind of a waste of time.
Everyone will zone out.
And in real life, I'm sure you've seen people in meetings ignoring perhaps you or the speaker checking
cell phone.
Not much is happening.
Same thing is true for a video conferencing meeting.
If you don't have a clear cut focus, it's really not going to be a great, effective use of time.
It doesn't matter how good your lighting is, the camera, the bandwidth, any of that, it's not going
to matter.
So those things are exactly the same.
Video conference meetings, real life meetings.
Now, there are some things that are different.
In some ways I'll level with you.
It's harder to do a video conference meeting because it's easier for people to be distracted.
It's easier for them, especially if the camera is not on them.
For them to be checking Facebook, reading other email, looking at news, their kid walks in, a dog
walks in.
So it's going to be easier to have your audience distracted.
So whether it's your meeting and you're calling it and you're the lead on this meeting, or if you're
a participant and you have to speak, realize that attentions are scattered because now it's not just
one person across from you in the room where everyone can see everyone.
Now it's just one computer screen.
It could be a small tap, it could even be a cell phone versus everything else in the person's field
of view.
So that's what makes it harder to do.
That is also why you need to give even more thought to how you can be engaging, asking people's questions,
being open to questions, calling on people, asking for them to participate.
Don't just read.
Don't just go through your notes.
Don't just go through your slides.
You've got to constantly engage.
In fact, let me practice what I preach.
I want to engage with you right now.
I want you to go to the student Q&amp;A section right here and type in 1 or 2 of your main concerns that
relate to video conferencing.
Go ahead and type them in.
If you've had any bad experiences, let me know.
And you can also go to the student Facebook page I've created for this course so you can later on upload
videos of yourself practicing or actual conference meetings you've done online and I'll critique them.
The whole community here will critique them.
I want to make this course engaging for you so that you'll learn more.
But I also want to lead by example.
You're not going to have successful online meetings unless you really learn to engage with people.
Now.
It's easier when it's a one on one meeting.
You can truly make it like a real conversation.
But if you're meeting with 12 colleagues or 20 other people in your industry, you can't talk to every
one of them one on one.
You've got to ask questions, engage selectively, sometimes ask them to text a message.
They could tweet a response to a poll.
There are so many ways of engaging people, but the main thing you have to realize is it's your job
if you're leading this meeting to engage.
Otherwise it's too easy to lose people.
And that is what's different about video conferencing.
That's the hard part.
It's not about how to look good or what camera or where do you look.
It's about really making sure you engage the audience.

--- Online Video Conferencing Is Just One More Simple Tool for Communicating ---

Let's debunk a couple of myths here.
You're not trying to put on a big fancy TV show.
You don't have to hire a makeup artist to have a video conference.
You just don't.
This is not prime time network TV.
This is just another form of communication.
Your entire life you've had to learn how to use different forms of communication, writing, writing
on a computer, sending a text message, creating a tweet, leaving a voicemail message.
These are all a little bit different.
They're not necessarily harder.
They're just a little bit different.
Speaking on an online meeting is a little bit different, but it's not harder.
You just have to learn the basics and realize you are perfectly fine doing it as you are.
You don't need plastic surgery.
You don't have to be beautiful or thinner or anything else.
You are perfectly fine as you are, but I will be giving you tips on how to make you come across your
very best and not distracting, but realize you already have everything you need to be effective when
it comes to communicating in online meetings, the technology is simple.
It's plentiful.
That part is easy.
The hard part for most of us is up here telling ourselves, Oh, I'm not a TV person, I'm not a video
person.
I'm a behind the scenes person.
Nonsense.
If you have to have a face to face meeting with someone in your office, you can't lurk behind the curtain
or in the shadows or hide behind a chair and say, Well, what we do now?
You've got to sit there and talk to them.
That's really all this is, too.
So I want to start stripping away this sense that you might have, that this is a completely different
arena or that it requires radically different skill sets from ones you've previously used.
Now it's just a little bit different.
But you can do this.
There's no one perfect size fit.
Look for being the star of a video conference meeting.
You're fine as you are.

--- You Must Learn How Your Platform Works BEFORE The Conference Starts ---

You may love technology, you may be a master of technology.
You might be able to take apart your whole computer, put it back together again.
That's great.
But a word of warning.
When you are giving a presentation, if you're in the middle of a meeting online, it's with important
clients, customers, colleagues, people you work with every day.
You're still going to be a little bit nervous.
What I mean by that is not that your hands are shaking or you're going to have flop sweat, but that
it's simply not the best time for your brain to learn some new technical skill.
The time to learn the specifics of Zoom or Skype or WebEx or Google Hangouts is before the actual meeting
when you have absolutely no pressure, no one's looking at you.
I'm sure you've seen in real life before people at conferences about to give a PowerPoint presentation
and they can't get things to work and they're sort of hunched over.
They're sweating.
They're apologizing.
You know, this worked fine back at the home office and you feel sorry for them.
But this is not how you want to start a presentation in real life or online.
So I'm begging you, even if you're great at technology and you're a quick learner, don't try to learn
in actual meetings.
You want to be really comfortable, confident.
You want to know you've already gone through a rehearsal on that technology and you're not learning
a new thing on the technology during your meeting.
You're learning from what the other participants are saying.

--- Learning the Different Platforms ---

There are hundreds of online platforms that will help you communicate with others in the digital space.
I'm not here to rate all those platforms or to advocate for any particular one.
I do want to give you a summary of some of the features of some of the more popular online platforms,
specifically Zoom, Skype, WebEx and Google Hangouts.
Again, we're not endorsing any one of these.
Try them out.
The most important thing with all of these platforms is don't try to learn in front of a real client
or important meeting or waste the time of your colleagues.
Do the learning in advance.
They're all user friendly, some more so than others, but none of them are so easy that you can learn
it and figure it out in real time when you're trying to convey something important.
So please keep that in mind.
And now I want to introduce you to my co instructor and colleague, Marcel.
Louis Marceau eats, breathes, sleeps, dreams about technology and technology platforms.
He spends all of his time playing with learning, with using technology platforms to communicate.
So he's going to walk you through all the ins and outs and where to click and when and how and why on
Zoom, Skype, WebEx and others.
So pay attention to this next section.

--- How To Start A Zoom Meeting ---

So here's how you would start a new meeting in Zoom.
So you bring up Zoom.
Here's zoom right here.
You start a new meeting and a new meeting.
You want to hit this orange square right here, this orange square with the white video camera icon
in the middle?
You want to press that?
That's how you start a new meeting.
Then you want to hit join with computer audio.
This will just use your regular computer audio and your regular computer webcam.
So you want to hit join with computer audio.
Then what you want to do is you want to click to invite participants if you need to invite participants.
So you can either invite them down here using.
If they're already in your contacts, you can go ahead and add them from your contacts right here or
add them by email using any one of these options right here, you can add them through Yahoo Mail with
the Yahoo mail option, add them through Gmail with the Gmail option or add them through your default
email client on your computer with the default email client right here.
Here is the password down here to get into the meeting.
From the invitation, you can either copy the URL or copy the invitation.
And here's the password right here.
You can turn your camera off and on.
You can turn your microphone off and on in case you get like a phone call or something like that and
you need to mute your audio.
Then you turn it back on.
You can manage your participants.
You can kick people out.
Assume that this is filled with everybody that's in your meeting.
You can add and remove people right here.
When you turn your video off, it will show your profile picture right here in the middle.
You can share your screen if you need to share multiple documents or multiple screens of show people
what's on your computer screen.
You can press this out right here and it will bring up the different screens that you have currently.
This is the only one I have, so this is the only one that it shows.
Or you can also chat in the same way that you would when you're managing your participants.
You can record the meeting if you need to record the meeting, and you also have these cool emojis where
you can add reactions when people are talking.
If you need to end the meeting, you hit end meeting down here in the right hand corner where it says
end meeting in red.
Then you can either end the meeting for all or you can simply leave the meeting and assign a new host.
If you end the meeting for all, the meeting is over.
For everybody that's already here.
The meeting is over.
If you leave the meeting, you leave by yourself and you can assign a new host.
So we're going to leave the meeting.

--- How To JOIN A Meeting on ZOOM ---

Okay, so let's say you wanted to join a meeting in Zoom.
So to join a meeting in Zoom, you open up, zoom.
You click on this icon right here that says, Join because you want to join a meeting.
So you hit this plus icon right here and you can either enter your meeting ID, you'll either be given
a meeting ID by the host, or you'll be given a personal link or a personal URL for you to type in right
here where it says Meeting ID or personal link.
This is the space where you put your meeting ID or your personal link.
Then you can put your name down here, anything you want people to call you, your first name, your
first and last name.
It doesn't matter.
Just whatever you want people to call you.
You can put in your full name or you can put in just your first name and you're good to go down here.
Let's say your kids are super loud or there's a lot going on in the background and you can still hear
the meeting going on.
You just don't want to add all that extra noise in the background.
You can hit.
Do not connect to audio, do not connect.
You check this box.
Now your audio is turned off.
They cannot hear anything that you're saying.
You can hear the people in the meeting.
The people in the meeting cannot hear you.
So let's say you want to turn off your video.
This is where you would turn off the video if you want people to hear you.
But you don't want to be seen.
You turn off your video if you don't want people to hear you or see you.
You can turn off your audio and turn off your video.
If you want people to hear you and be able to see you.
You keep both of these boxes unchecked and you press join.
And that is how you join a meeting on Zoom.

--- How To Schedule A Zoom Meeting ---

Here's how you schedule a meeting in Zoom.
You open up, zoom, you press this button right here with the calendar looking icon where it says Schedule
at the bottom.
You press this, you can enter your meeting topic, your specific day, the start time, how long you
think the meeting will be.
You're allowed to go under or over this amount of time.
This is just an estimate so that people have a general idea to expect how long the meeting should be.
Is this meeting going to keep happening?
You can check this box and you can also change your time zone here.
With this dropdown menu, you can generate an automatic meeting ID or you can enter your personal meeting
ID.
This number never changes.
If someone wants to call the meeting from a phone, this is the meeting ID that they would use.
This is your personal one that they give you when you sign up for the service of Zoom.
Or you can generate one automatically if it's just a quick meeting and you won't be doing this all the
time, you can require a password.
You don't need a password.
If you're using your personal meeting ID, you can add a password if you'd like to.
Um, you are then able to say if you would like to have your video on or off.
If you're the host, you can turn it on or you can turn it off.
You can have participants video on or off when they join, and they also have the option when they join
the meeting to turn their video both on and off.
You can turn your telephone audio on your computer audio, or you can have your telephone and computer
audio on, or you can have just your computer audio on or just your telephone audio on.
You can also save it to your preferred calendar client.
Down here, you can use Outlook, you can use Google Calendar or if you have your own calendar, it'll
save it there as well.
You also have your advanced options down here where you can enter a waiting room until the host enters
the meeting and it's ready to start.
You can join the host or you can join before the host starts.
If you would like to, you can mute participants as they come in.
If you need a few minutes to get your thoughts or whatever together, you can mute participants when
they come in.
Keep in mind they can unmute themselves or you can mute them from your host dashboard.
You can also automatically record the meeting on whatever computer or device that you're using.
And these are all of your advanced settings when you are scheduling a meeting in Zoom.
And then after you do all that, you simply hit schedule and then you send out all of the appropriate
information to all of the people that you would like to have on the meeting with you.
You send out this link to people's email or you can text it to them or you can send them the call in
ID when the meeting starts and they can use this to get on the call, get on a phone, on a traditional
phone and call into the meeting and be a part of the meeting that way.
So that is how you schedule a meeting in Zoom.

--- How To Share Your Screen In Zoom ---

So here is how you would share your screen in Zoom.
The first thing you want to do is open up Zoom and you want to press this up.
Icon right here.
See this up arrow pointing upwards on top of this.
Enter the meeting ID that was given to you by whoever's hosting the meeting or you're sharing key,
you're sharing key will also be given to you by whoever's hosting the meeting.
Now, keep in mind when you share your screen, the first thing that's going to pop up is whatever is
on your desktop.
So if you don't want people to see your desktop and you don't want people to see what's on your screen,
but you need to share your screen, then I would close out any other windows that you have open and
just have open only the windows that you want to show in your meeting.
And as soon as you enter the meeting, that will be the first thing that people see.
Instead of your video, it'll be your screen and that is how you share your screen in Zoom.

--- How To Use The Additional Features in Zoom ---

Here's how to use these bottom buttons, home chat meetings and contacts in Zoom, so the first thing
that you want to do is open up zoom.
And you can click on chat, let's say that you've used Zoome before and you can chat in the chat portion
of Zoome, just like you would with anyone else in the platform.
So the first thing that you want to do is click on chat.
You click on the person's name, but you want to chat with and you can just say, hey.
And you'll send them a message, and that's how you use Jet.
The second thing is meetings, when you click on meetings, you can either start a meeting giving out
your meeting ideas so that people can call you, you can send out an invitation that gets pasted into
your clipboard and you can go ahead and paste that into your email or into the chatter, into a text
message to send to people.
You can also record your meetings if you hit record in the interface.
This is where you're recording me.
You simply go to new meeting and you can.
Click right here where it says record, and then when you're finished recording the meeting, you hit
stop.
So when you record a meeting, this is where it will show up with the day that it was recorded, the
month, the calendar day, the year and the time.
And you can choose to convert it however you want to convert it.
If he said it to somebody, you can also delete it.
If you don't need it anymore, your contacts are the same.
This is just your Rolodex of everybody that you know in Zoom and you're friends with and contacts with
on Zune.

--- How To Set Up A Virtual BAckground In Zoom ---

Also.
This is how you use virtual backgrounds inside of Zoom.
So the first thing you want to do is open up zoom so you start a new meeting.
And if you don't know where to find these virtual backgrounds around here, you simply click this button
right here, this up arrow right here you can and you choose virtual background and see it's got all
the choices, virtual background, everything that you would want to click on.
Now I already have a green screen, but so it's a lot easier.
But all you have to do is you can you can click whichever one you want, as long as you're where you're
sitting is well lit and you're easily seen.
These will have no problem showing up.
Now, if you have a green screen, you have a green screen like I do, you can press green screen.
I have a green screen.
You press this if you have a green screen and then it's even easier.
See how much clearer, more clear it is and things like that.
This is a little bit more advanced if you're trying to add a little bit of pizzazz or a little bit of
extra to your video, this is where you would add your virtual backdrop.
So and then if you don't have a green screen, you simply uncheck that.
You don't have a green screen.
If you do have a green screen, you check this.
If you do not have a green screen, you uncheck it.
And that is how you add a virtual background to your videos and see if you take off your if you turn
your camera back on from being off.
Now, this is what everybody in the video will see.
This is what everybody in the meeting will see.
Is this cool virtual background that you have back here.
That is how you add a virtual background in Zoom.

--- The Favorite Thing I Like About Zoom ---

Keep in mind whether you are the speaker or a participant or just showing up for this online meeting,
people can tell what you're doing even if you think you aren't necessarily on camera.
This is one of the features I do enjoy about Zoom.
Zoom gives the host the ability to see if anyone has clicked away to a different app for more than 30s.
Which means if you're supposed to be listening to the boss and all of a sudden you're going to Facebook
and you're out of the Zoom page or you're checking Twitter.
The moderator, The organizer can know this.
Now, this applies to you, too.
If you're speaking and you've finished, don't then say, Well, I did my part.
Let me go off and do my email.
No, you need to still be there.
Basic etiquette is the same whether you are in person, in a meeting or virtually.
Pay attention if you're not going to pay attention.
Leave the room.

--- How To START UP Web Ex ---

So this is WebEx and you've already downloaded it and you want to set it up for the first time.
You want to hit use guest, then you want to hit, you want to put your name in.
Mm hm.
And then this will pop up.
And that is how you start WebEx for the first time.

--- How To Start or Join A Meeting On Web Ex ---

The first thing you would do is you would enter your meeting information right here where it says,
enter meeting information under this tab where it says, Join a meeting so you can either enter your
meeting number, your meeting link, or your video address.
Now, once you put that in.
It'll show up and you just hit join and you will another window will pop up and you'll automatically
be joined into the meeting that's already going on.
And that is how you join a meeting in web.

--- How To Connect To A Web Ex Enabled Device ---

So here's how you would connect a WebEx device.
If you have a WebEx enabled device already.
First thing you want to do is open up WebEx.
Then you want to come down here where it says Connect to a device and press connect with the device.
If you do not have a web enabled device, then you don't need to worry about this tab down here.
But if you do have a WebEx enabled device, then you come down here to connect to a device and you press
on this tab right here.
And that is how you connect to a device that is WebEx enabled in WebEx for meetings.

--- How To Configure Settings And Preferences In Web Ex ---

The next thing you want to do is just look and see if there's anything that you want to change.
So these are all your general options.
You can show your WebEx meetings desktop app on the top of the desktop, which is it would normally
show up right here.
You can you can start the WebEx meetings when your windows starts.
So as soon as you start up your computer, WebEx will start.
You can change your name and your email address in your account.
Your meeting join options are right here.
If you want to change your video options or your computer, audio, phone and camera options.
These are recent numbers that you've dialed in on.
If you can't remember them, then they'll be right here for you to call it on again.
A calendar.
You use the calendar tab to set up meetings that you have saved in Outlook and they'll show up right
here.
You also have your notifications when and where and how you want to receive notifications and your video
system.
So if you wanted again to connect a nearby device, then you would add your WebEx enabled video.
So you click on video systems and you can automatically discover new devices and you can connect without
pressing one on your video system.
And so this is how you use the settings and preferences portion of WebEx meetings.

--- Start A New CONVERSATION In Skype ---

So this is how you would start a new conversation in Skype.
First you start up Skype.
So we're starting Skype.
Now that Skype has started, the first thing you want to do is hit start a conversation.
The next thing you want to do is type in the name of the contact that you're looking for, and then
you hit the contact.
The next thing you want to do is press this icon right here that starts an audio call.
You can also start a video call if you want to start a video call.
And that is how you start a call in Skype.

--- How To Start A New CHAT In Skype ---

Here is how you would start a new chat in Skype.
So the first thing you would do is open up Skype.
Then when you've got Skype opened, you come over here.
And you select the name of the person that you want to chat with.
Simply type their name in.
Select their name over here in the left hand side.
And then you just start typing.
You can say, Hey.
Can you press send?
And that is how you start a new chat with someone in Skype.

--- How To Use The Chat FUNCTIONS In Skype ---

Here's how you would use all of your chat functions in Skype.
The first thing you have down here.
Is your emojis.
So if you want to add emojis to a conversation, you can add emoticons, GIFs which are animated pictures,
stickers which you may have on your mobile device, or emojis, which are 3D animations of emotions
that you can send to whoever you're chatting with.
If you don't want to send an emoji, you simply hit the down arrow and they go away.
Over here, you can send a file or a photo.
You can also send a contact to whoever you're chatting with, or you can send a video message.
And if you send a video message, obviously your video will pop up.
You can leave a message.
You press record when you're giving your message through video and then you hit stop recording and now
you've got a video message and then you simply hit send.
Now you've just sent a video message.
The last part of all your chat features is this three dot ellipsis right here, all the way on the right.
With this you can open Spotify, you can open OneDrive, you can send money, which is a new feature.
You can create a poll if you're in a group chat or you can schedule a call for next time with whoever
you're chatting with.
And that is how you use all of your available chat functions.
You also have this option up here at the corner to add an additional person or to create a new group
to a chat that you already have going on.
So let's say I want to add me and I want to add my friend TJ to the chat that we have going on.
You simply select the box next to the name of the people that you want to add and you press done and
see.
Now it will start a new conversation and you do the same thing as you did before.
You just type in, Hey, and you've sent a group chat.
Hello, group.
How are you today?
And that is your group chat.

--- How To Make International, Mobile and Landline Calls and Buy Skype Credits ---

Here's how you make international calls and buy Skype credit.
So the first thing you want to do is open up Skype.
The second thing that you can do is come to the top right here and then go over to this dollar amount
right here and click the dollar amount.
Now this screen will come up, so.
It will ask you how much you want to buy and you can purchase five, 10 or $25 increments if you wanted
to reload your minutes for Skype, depending on where you wanted to call.
You also have subscriptions.
So if you wanted to call.
Places like India or other places in the United States, or just any mobile or landline.
You would have unlimited minutes and you could pay $7, $3, you know, $8 a month.
And then all you have to do, you put your credit card information in and it will credit your account.
Either the 5 to $25 or your subscription will start immediately for whichever one of these three subscriptions
you choose to use.
And that is how you add Skype credit and make international calls using Skype.

--- How To Use The Meet Now Function of Skype ---

All the meat now function of Skype.
So the first thing that you want to do is come over here to where it says, Meet now and you press the
meet now button.
Now what you can do is you can either press this link right here and send it an email to anyone that
you want to add on your Skype call.
They don't have to actually have Skype.
It starts a Web based client and they can hop right into the video chat.
You also have this option here to turn off and on your video.
Off and on your microphone and you can either blur out your background or not blur it out depending
on if you have a lot going on in the back and you don't want people to see it, it will blur your entire
background here behind you and keep your face in focus.
And then when you're ready to start your call, you simply press this button where it says, Start,
call, and your call will begin.
And that is how you use the meet now function of Skype.

--- Where To Configure Your Settings In Skype ---

Here is how you use the settings portion of Skype.
So what you want to do is open up Skype.
When you come to the top over here and you want to hit this three ellipsis button right here and you
want to press on settings.
Here is where you will find everything that has to do with your Skype account and your you can change
and add and edit everything that you want to do.
So here you can change your profile, picture your Skype name, your mobile number, your email address,
your location, your birthday, and a whole bunch of other things.
Such is your Skype number, your profile.
If you wanted to add money to make international calls, to add money to send to people.
And if you unfortunately, if you wanted to close your account.
Under General, you can change your language.
You can show Skype in the Windows notification area, which is down here.
You can enable your location sharing.
And you can also enable hotkeys.
As well as have whatever language that you're chatting in, translate it for you.
You can edit the appearance of scopes such as the color of the chat bubbles.
You can edit the entire appearance of Skype and you can turn it into dark mode.
Down here.
You have sidebar and compact list.
You also have split view, which you can use to just turn Skype into a bunch of different trays for
a bunch of the different things that it is that you're doing.
So we're going to go ahead and turn this back.
You can enable caller ID, you can enable call forwarding.
You can turn on read receipts like you would on a traditional iPhone or Android device.
You've got all your different web and text options down here.
Your notifications that you receive on the computer.
If someone was to call you or send you a chat.
Your contacts, you can sync your contacts if you have them somewhere else, like on your phone or in
your email.
You can also see any accounts that you've blocked.
This is the always helpful help and feedback tab where if you have any questions or you have a problem
or something like that, you can talk to a representative of Skype and they can help you fix a problem,
just like a super, super technical problem.
And that is how you use the general settings and preferences tab of Skype.

--- Do NOT Hide Behind Slides - Show Your Face on the Video Meeting ---

Let's address something head on.
If you're a normal person and I assume you are, your first thought might be, well, I don't want to
be on camera.
I'll just speak behind the scenes and I'll put up slides the whole time.
No, no, no, don't do that.
It is so much less interesting to people.
It's boring.
It makes you look cowardly and like you're afraid and you're practically begging people to ignore you
and check email and cell phones and Facebook.
So you don't like the idea of your face on camera?
You want to just use your voice that's easier for you.
You don't want to have to shave or do your hair or clean up.
I've got bad news for you.
Nobody cares what's easy for you.
Your boss, your clients, your customers.
They may like you, but they don't really care about what's easier for you.
Every decision you make has to be looked at through the prism of is this helping the people?
I'm speaking to?
My clients, my customers, my colleagues.
Is it helping them?
And you not showing your face is not helping them.
That is, you just not dealing with fear.
So do not try to just use voice.
All the major applications have systems where you can just call in on phone.
And I know you're tempted to say, Oh, you know, a bad Internet connection today.
I couldn't join us on the video on the website, but I'm here by phone.
You can do that once or twice, but after a while, people will see through that.
So you need to show your face because the face is so much more expressive than the voice alone.
People will capture nuance, figure out what's important.
They will feel much more connected to you and they will listen so much more carefully.
If they can see you now, it's perfectly fine to put up slides for portions of your presentation or
to put up a graph or to share a website.
I'm not suggesting it has to be you the whole time, but if you want people to listen to you and to
really focus on your most important points, you need them to see you so they can see why you think
that is important.
So yes, you do have to show your face if you really want to be seen as competent, confident and professional
for your online meetings.

--- Never Be Nervous Again on Camera ---

In this first big section here, I'm going to start off in a place that most people don't start when
it comes to courses and videos teaching you how to video conference.
Most people start off with a tech side of things.
Well, here's what I know about you.
You're kind of like me in the sense that you're probably more worried about how do you not look stupid?
That's the human response.
So I want to give you solutions to real human needs.
That's what you're going to learn in this section.
All the do's and don'ts of how to really come across comfortable, confident, relaxed, so you don't
have to worry about it if you're nervous about how you look, if you're not confident that you're coming
across your best, none of the other stuff will matter because that will mess up how you communicate.
So you're in the right place.
If you're starting right here, I'll walk you through all the steps.

--- Follow These Tips To Look Your Very Best on Camera for Your Next Meeting ---

So how do you look your best when you are meeting with people on a video conference?
So here are some of the key points you really need to keep in mind.
One of the biggest blunders most people make is they're ignoring the camera and they're looking like
this.
They're staring at the screen.
How do you like it in real life when people ignore you and never look at you in the face and the eyes?
It's just annoying and it's sort of asking you to do the same thing, ignore what they're saying and
go check your email.
So that's the first big key.
You really need to look at the camera like you're talking to one colleague or one client.
And if someone else is speaking, then you want to watch them and it's a little bit below.
That's okay.
But when you're speaking, people need to get the sense that you're looking at them.
We are hardwired as human beings to feel that way.
The next thing you want to do is move.
Tell me how this looks.
Hi, my name is T.J. Walker, and as president of Media Training worldwide, I teach people how to speak
effectively in front of the media and video cameras.
Awful, right?
It's because I was frozen.
Nothing was moving but my lips.
Now, this is what nervous people do is they think, Oh my gosh, I'm doing a video conference for the
first time.
I want to be professional.
And they freeze their body.
So let me add an element.
Hi, I'm TJ Walker at Media Training Worldwide.
I help executives, business people all over the world communicate more effectively.
I said basically the same thing.
But at that time my head moved.
My face moved.
You need to do that.
Let's add another element.
So, hi, I'm TJ.
What do I do?
I really help people come across more comfortable, confident anytime they're speaking to the media.
My body moved.
Let's add another element.
So the big challenge for most people is figuring out what is most important.
How can they really come across more comfortable and confident that time?
My hands are moving and they were showing huge myth out there that somehow you're not supposed to move
your hands when you speak.
Big, big myth.
Do not listen to that.
Is it possible to be doing this and be wildly distracting?
It's possible, but the far bigger risk for most people is being frozen.
Everything is stiff, frozen.
That sends a signal to people that you're scared, that you're uncomfortable.
Why should someone buy a product or service from someone who seems uncomfortable and scared?
Why should an executive or a colleague buy in to your ideas if you seem like you're not certain about
it so you don't want to look scared or nervous?
Now, as you've heard me mention, you want to lean forward a little into the camera because if you're
leaning backwards, it can make you look.
Uncomfortable, stiff, scared.
So you may be in a home office and your chair reclines.
It looks bad.
It sends your head away.
You'll have a double chin whether you have one in real life or not.
Now, sometimes people try to do this so-called perfect posture.
Hi, I'm TJ Walker.
I help people look relaxed and comfortable in front of a video camera.
How does that look?
Makes me look scared and stiff.
Okay.
You want to lean forward any time you're speaking, I'm leaning forward about 15 degrees.
This makes my face what I'm saying more prominent, gives a stronger jawline.
Takes away less emphasis from my body.
Now, you can see when you see me from the side, it's not particularly natural looking that much,
and it's not so-called perfect posture.
But when I'm leaning towards the video camera, it looks much, much better.
So this is the best way to come across when you are speaking on a video conference.
Now I'm standing You certainly don't have to stand.
You can be seated at a chair, but make sure your chair isn't rocking, because I guarantee you, if
you have a video conference with ten colleagues and you have the most exciting information ever, great
information for them and you're rocking, the only thing anyone will remember ever is that you were
rocking.
So you want to avoid distractions or swiveling and you want to make sure that there's nothing distracting.
You want to move, but only from the waist up.
You do not want to be doing any sliding in your chair.
That sort of thing.
So these are the most fundamental things that are important when it comes to how you move.
Now, you heard me mention the eyes.
If you don't want to look at the camera the whole time, it's okay to glance down.
But here's what you don't want to do.
Let's say your boss or your client asks you an important question.
That's a great question.
I'm glad you asked me that.
When your eyes shoot upwards, it makes it look like you have no idea what you're talking about and
you're just going to make up something.
So my recommendation, if you're called on to speak, try to look at the camera as much as possible.
If you have to look away, glance down.
And nothing wrong with glancing at notes.
Nothing wrong with that at all.
What you don't want to do is act like you're on camera for network news and you're checking yourself
out like that.
You don't want to have quick, furtive eye glancing that will make you look nervous and scared.
The final thing I want you to think about when you are on camera is.
If you're not speaking, but the camera is on you.
In some video conferencing systems, everyone's face will be showing or you'll be introduced at the
beginning.
Maybe you're not asked to say anything, but you go full screen.
Here I am with my face completely blank.
How does that look?
It kind of makes me look bored.
Boring.
Uninterested.
Kind of looks like a mugshot.
So here's what I suggest, especially when you're being introduced at the beginning or people are seeing
you or there's a split screen.
Have a little bit of a smile on your face.
Here I am smiling slightly.
It's not a gigantic TV of Angela's smile.
You don't even have to show teeth.
But just a little bit of a smile will make you look more relaxed, more comfortable and more confident
when you are on camera.
So these are the fundamentals of how you can come across your very best when you are shown on camera
for your video meeting.

--- This Is Why You Should NOT Use Teleprompters or Read Scripts ---

Again, this is not a TV show.
What you're doing here.
Do not try to use a teleprompter.
Don't sit there and read a screenplay.
I'm a big news around.
It's going to put people to sleep.
People are great at watching professional newscasters and movie actors.
They are going to spot you in a second.
If you try to use teleprompters or read a speech, you need to be as conversational as possible.
Sure, I understand you may have a PowerPoint presentation.
You may have bullet points you've got to go through.
But just like in real life, you don't want to read the majority of it.
Because think about it.
What do you do when someone reads a PowerPoint presentation to you?
If you're like most people, you check email.
So don't try to read.
It robs your voice of sounding conversational.
Don't try to use a teleprompter.
There are all these little apps with iPhone apps where you can read a teleprompter on camera.
Get rid of it.
Just have a conversation with people.
Perfectly fine to glance at notes what you want to say.
It is a meeting like any other meeting.
Don't junk it up by doing things that are more artificial and can make you seem boring.

--- This Is What You Should Wear for a Video Conference ---

Clothing.
What should you wear for a video conference?
The rule of thumb with clothing is you simply do not want to confuse or distract your audience.
If you are in a high tech industry and all of a sudden you're wearing a suit and tie, that could be
distracting because typically people don't wear suits and ties in real life meetings.
Know what people expect from someone in your shoes.
Try to avoid anything that's too revealing or that's going to distract people.
Too much skin can be distracting male or female.
Keep in mind, how is it going to look to the other person?
Are they going to be confused at all?
If you are an attorney and you specialize in giving people tax advice and advice on their estates to
just have a t shirt that says party hardy is going to confuse people.
Wear whatever you want on your off time, but realize that if this is a business meeting.
Really, the same rules apply, at least from the waist up.
Now you can wear whatever you want below.
I typically wear ugly blue crocs shoes when I'm doing video conferences.
Doesn't matter.
But what people can see, they need to see something that allows them to focus on what you're saying
and not be distracted.
There are a couple of other differences.
Black in real life can have a slimming effect, but on video it can blur together your arms, your torso.
You might have a black chair.
It can actually make you look heavier on video.
It's not the end of the world if you wear a black shirt, jacket, dress.
But all things being equal, I would avoid black.
This actually has a lot of white in it and has more of a gray, although it may look black to you.
Bright white can be too intense.
It can darken your face.
I wouldn't wear a pure white shirt.
Again, not the end of the world if you do, but try to avoid white.
Anything with complex patterns can get fuzzy and jump around and can distract.
So if it's just a daily quick staff meeting with your same three colleagues, don't bother changing
into something special.
But if it's an important video conference clients, your most important customer.
You're pitching a new deal.
In that case, try to do everything you can to minimize distractions.
Bright red can be too intense and can kind of bleed across the screen too.
So the rule of thumb is wear solids and avoid white.
Avoid red and avoid complex patterns.
If you do that, you'll increase the odds that people can focus on what you're saying and not be distracted
by what you are wearing.

--- Create the best lighting and angle for your video presence ---

Let's go over some of the most common blunders people make.
You want to avoid these at all costs.
For starters, look at this behind me.
It looks nice outside, but you can't see my face.
If you're doing a video conference from home, you may be fortunate enough to have a nice home office
with a window.
Your desk is in front of the window.
Your computer is on the desk.
So this could be the natural way to do it.
But it looks horrible.
You can't see my face.
I'm a shadowy figure.
Very distracting.
No one wants to look at that.
So when it comes to your lighting, you want light in front of your face, not behind you.
I'll demonstrate in a moment.
Just turning it around, using the natural light to look much better.
Now, here's another big problem people have when they are doing a video conference from home.
And we can't all have extra rooms just for video conferencing.
So people improvise.
Now pull back a minute and what do you see behind me?
If I do a video conference like this, the only thing most people are going to remember, TJ likes the
Jose Cuervo.
So keep in mind, it's very, very distracting to have anything like that laundry, liquor or anything
like that.
Now, the other thing that is really bad you don't want to do, look at the camera angle.
It's looking up my nose.
This looks horrible.
And this, unfortunately, is how people have the webcam on their laptop or their desktop.
It's too low.
Let's bring up the camera.
You want your camera to be just a couple of inches above your eyes.
It will make you look much better.
Now let's demonstrate some of these things altogether.
Here I am with a laptop.
But again, the problem is it would be looking up my nose.
That's too high.
But what do you do if this is your laptop or this is your computer?
You really need the camera to be a couple of inches above your eyes.
Here's a simple, easy way of making this happen.
I simply have a stack of books come around this way and show them I'm going to put my laptop on a stack
of books.
Now the camera on my laptop is just a couple of inches above my eyes.
This way it will make me look much, much better.
Now that the window is that way, I'm getting natural light on my face.
It's going to be much more flattering when you're framing your head.
Remember, your head should almost be touching the top of the screen.
A real sign of an amateur is if your head is in the middle of the whole screen and it will make anyone
look like a little kid.
So show my head right in the middle for a minute so they can see it's going to make me look like a little
kid.
You want your head to be touching the top of the screen?
Now, the good news is you don't have to go out and buy a big fancy studio.
But if you have your camera just a couple of inches above your eyes, show the camera again, the laptop.
The other thing I'm doing is I have some light.
I have a light to my right and a light to my left.
And this just sort of evens out the light on my face.
These are just $10 simple reading lights.
There's nothing fancy.
All you really need is more light in front of you, not behind you.
If you have good lighting a backdrop that is not distracting and the camera is at your eye level, you
will be way ahead of most people.

--- The Biggest Distraction Can Be... ---

Вы должны сделать все возможное, чтобы устранить отвлекающие факторы для себя и своей аудитории.
И еще одно.
О, смотрите, вот волосы, моя милая, моя милая забава с Джой Розз, хорошо?
Я люблю свою дочь.
Я думаю, что она самая лучшая в мире.
Но почему я должен считать, что вам не все равно?
Держите своих детей подальше.
Я не хочу показаться антиребенком.
Я люблю свою дочь, но сейчас не время для этого.
Так что сообщите об этом своим близким.
Не беспокоить.
Повесьте табличку на дверь.
Или если вы все должны находиться в одной комнате, сообщите им, что они должны вести себя тихо.
Одно дело, если это ваши коллеги, и вы работаете вместе каждый день в течение пяти
лет, и все делятся информацией, и периодически вот мой ребенок в порядке.
Но если это деловая презентация, новые деловые клиенты, заказчики, важные коллеги, не думайте, что они хотят
знать все о вашей семейной жизни.
Не отвлекайтесь, потому что это отвлекает.
Они могут любить вашего ребенка, но если это самое запоминающееся событие, то вы отвлекли внимание от того, что было
действительно важно.
Вы заметили, что в последнем видео была моя дочь.
Она ничего не сказала, но это все равно отвлекает.
Я хочу, чтобы вы обратили внимание на то, как такие мелочи могут отвлекать.
Вы хотите сделать все возможное, чтобы сосредоточиться на том, что действительно важно, - на ваших идеях.
И это означает, что нужно рассказать об этом семье, друзьям, домашним животным.
Это время "не беспокоить".

--- Solutions for Your Backdrop ---

Laten we het eens hebben over achtergronden. Ik wil natuurlijk niet dat je fotografeert met een raam achter je dat het licht
verstoort.
Je wilt niets dat afleidt, zoals drankflessen, lingerie, vuile kleren of iets dergelijks.
Je wilt iets dat eenvoudig en schoon is, niet afleidt en mensen niet in verwarring brengt.
Als dit een zakelijk gesprek is, weten ze misschien dat je dit vanuit een kantoor aan huis doet, maar het moet
er nog steeds zakelijk uitzien en er mag niets zijn dat afleidt.
Voor de meeste mensen, als je een thuiskantoor hebt, is gewoon wat je hebt dat netjes en schoon
is, een boekenplank die niet je raam is, prima.
Als je dit doet vanaf je keukentafel of zelfs een slaapkamer, dan heb je misschien een studio.
Dat is OK.
Een lege muur ziet er beter uit dan veel rommel.
Als je bijvoorbeeld Zoome en sommige andere platforms gebruikt, kun je een achtergrond
kiezen die je digitaal achter je kunt plaatsen.
En het is eenvoudig.
Het is gemakkelijk.
Een waarschuwing.
Wees selectief.
Ik had laatst een conference call met iemand en die had een opname van de maanlanding achter zich.
Ik was zo in de war en verbaasd, zo van, wow, gingen ze naar de maan of wat gebeurt hier?
Je wilt geen dingen die nieuwsgierigheid opwekken, tenzij het een online conferentie is om te praten over hoe je achtergronden
kunt verkopen.
Dat is waarschijnlijk niet wat je gaat doen.
Dus meestal geldt: hoe eenvoudiger, hoe beter.
Ik sta voor de televisie.
Ik zit in een kleine kast in mijn huis in New York.
Ik heb een oude tv en ik heb gewoon een PowerPoint-dia achter me.
Dus soms gebruik ik deze kantoorsetting.
Andere keren heb ik een lege dia.
Als ik bijvoorbeeld in een vergadering ben om te praten over crisiscommunicatie of mediatraining, wat
een van de dingen is die ik dan doe.
Ik zal een afbeelding als deze plaatsen om mensen het gevoel te geven dat ik in de media ben, maar voor de meeste conference
calls is dit te druk, dit leidt te veel af.
Dus je moet uitzoeken wat voor jou werkt.
Dat is eenvoudig.
Dat is gemakkelijk.
Dat houdt de focus op je boodschap en brengt je publiek niet in verwarring.

--- What Is the Best Video Camera to Use for Online Meetings? ---

Let's talk technology.
Video cameras quite often.
That's the first question people have.
TJ What's the best video camera I should get?
Here's the thing.
Pretty much any camera that's been made in the last couple of years is going to be perfectly fine for
your video conferencing needs.
Any webcam you plug it in will generally work.
Built in cameras and laptops are perfectly fine for this.
Far more important is getting it at eye level and having decent lighting on your face.
That's really what's more important.
I beg you, don't spend any more time searching, researching for the perfect camera.
Get a camera and start practicing recording yourself on video.
Start doing conference calls with even friends and family to get used to speaking on camera and conducting
meetings online.
The camera doesn't really matter.
The camera angle, the lighting, that's what's key.
You do have to make sure it's compatible with your computer and the system you're using, whether it's
Zoom or Skype.
But that's a simple matter.

--- Microphones to the Rescue ---

More important than your video camera than a lot of other aspects of the production.
Your sound, your audio.
I do recommend that you try to get some.
Microphone that isn't just the built in microphone I'm wearing a lav short for.
Lavalier microphone right here.
You can buy lav microphones that then plug into your computer.
You can buy these on Amazon or other stores typically for less than $20.
The earbuds, if you're using any Mac product, the wired ones can often work quite well.
They have a nice microphone in that if you are going to use the built in microphone, in either a laptop
or a computer, it's even more important that you're in as quiet a room as possible, that ideally there's
carpet on the floor and the least amount of background sound possible.
People will forgive if they can't see every aspect of your face or something.
But if they can't hear you.
Your video conference is really a waste of time.
So do everything you can to make the room quiet.
And if you're going to be doing video conferencing on a regular basis, get some form of a Lav mic.
Now, microphones are things you can spend $2, you can spend $2,000.
You don't have to have the $2,000 kind.
But any microphone for simple video conferencing that isn't the built in microphone should be fine for
you.

--- Speakers, Headphones, Earpieces and More ---

When you're conducting your video meetings, you're going to have to hear other people speaking to you,
which means you either need active speakers where you can adjust the volume and hear them or you need
an earpiece.
Now, the beauty of having an earpiece is the audio quality on your end will be less distorted for your
audience because if you have a microphone and you have speakers on when people are speaking, their
sound is going out of your microphone and then back in to the mic.
So that can cause a feedback loop and some distortion.
It's typically okay.
Still, for most conferences with colleagues, with perhaps a client you speak to once a week, but
for a more important online presentation, you want everything just right.
It's better not to have the sound from the speaker going out and then back into your microphone.
There's a very easy, simple tech solution.
You may have seen news anchors with these.
This is an earpiece.
It clips on the back of my shirt or jacket, and then it just plugs in to the audio out this way.
It's very neat and clean looking because I can have this behind me.
This sort of snakes around again.
It's just like a news anchor you've seen.
I have it behind me and then I can hear you perfectly.
And yet it keeps a neat, clean appearance.
Now, don't get upset.
This is not $10,000.
I bought this one on Amazon for $10 and I'm not pushing Amazon or any other brand.
Just find some model.
What you need to do is search IFB F, as in frank IFB earpiece and you will see these.
And the $10 version I find for video conferencing is all you need.
You could use the earbuds, apple, the white things.
I just find that messy looking.
It doesn't look like what a really successful high class business organization uses, but it's certainly
better than nothing.
So keep that in mind.

--- Use the Best Possible Internet Connection Possible ---

A successful video conference requires a lot of bandwidth.
It just takes up a lot more space than sending texts through the air.
You want the absolute best Internet connection you can find.
Now, back when you were at your office, that might have been easy.
You may have had fantastic connections, but if you're doing this video conference from home could be
a different issue.
For starters, try to use a wired connection rather than Wi-Fi, if at all possible.
If there are other people at your home watching movies, uploading, downloading images, video, have
them stop it while you're trying to do your video conference.
The fewer things competing for your bandwidth, the better.
If you're going to be doing video conferences from home on a regular basis, I'd recommend you upgrade
to some package that's faster than the least expensive consumer package.
You will need all the bandwidth you get if you're going to have successful video conferencing from your
home.

--- Don't Talk about the Technology, Just Use the Technology ---

I'll never forget it.
It was the first time I was on a production shoot and a producer had a cell phone.
It was this big, clunky thing.
It was around 1986 and I said, Oh, I've got to use that.
So what do I do?
I call my parents and say, Wow, you'll never guess it.
I'm talking to you from a cell phone.
I was so amazed at the technology.
Now, if you did that be kind of weird and boring to people?
Here's my point.
Don't talk about the technology when you are doing a teleconference, whether it's Zoom, Skype, WebEx,
don't tell people.
This is my first webinar, my first Skype meeting, my first Google hangout.
Don't talk about the technology.
Frankly, no one else cares.
If you had to learn something new and learn a system and had problems hooking things up.
Don't waste people's time.
Don't talk about the technology.
Talk about the real purpose of your meeting.
Talk about something that's valuable to the other people who showed up for the meeting.
Do that and you can't go wrong.

--- Fundamentals of Effective Online Presentations ---

If you're giving a presentation in an online meeting, realize that many of the things that work in
real life when you're giving presentations also work when you're giving an online presentation.
On the other hand, the things that hurt you in real life will also hurt you if you do the same thing
in an online presentation.
Let's look at the biggest blunders most people make when they are giving speeches, presentations,
talks in real life or online.
The number one blunder is a big data dump.
More and more facts, more and more numbers.
Here's all the charts.
Here's all the graphs, and it's just mind numbingly boring.
Remember, if you're asked to give a presentation, so much of your job is to provide judgment on what
is truly important.
What do the people you're meeting with really need to know in order to take specific actions?
They don't need to know every single thing you know about the subject, otherwise they would have your
job.
So don't drown.
People in data don't show bullet point after bullet point after bullet point and don't stay in the abstract
realm.
You've got to make your ideas come alive.
So let's start at the beginning.
The first thing you need to ask yourself for any presentation is in one sentence What is it I want the
people I'm speaking to to do.
That's the first step.
The next step is then to ask yourself what messages are most likely to motivate them to do what I want
them to do and to narrow it down to just five, just a handful.
I've been teaching people how to speak online and in the real world for more than 30 years.
And I always ask my students the very same question Can you think of the best speaker you've ever seen
in your life?
Now?
Can you tell me how many messages you remember from that speech or that presentation, whether it's
online or in person?
I've never yet had anyone remember more than five ideas from people they heard in their industry.
Sometimes it's zero.
Often it's one or just 2 or 3, but it's never been more than five.
So I believe whether you have a five minute presentation online or a 90 minute presentation, you truly
need to narrow your messages down to just a handful, literally five or fewer.
Next, you need an actual story to bring each message point alive.
Human beings remember stories.
They visualize stories.
They process stories.
Yes, they can understand facts, but facts are quickly forgotten.
When I ask my clients all over the world, what do they remember from the best speaker?
They always say, I remember the story that this woman said, and they go in and tell the details of
the story, even if it's been ten years since they heard it.
People remember stories now important that the stories are relevant to your audience, what they need
to know.
It can't be personal or self-indulgent.
It can be personal if it relates to how you helped other clients, colleagues, customers solve a real
problem, then the personal stories are the absolute best.
If you have extra facts or figures, have them on a sheet of paper.
Glance down at them.
If you want to put up a particularly powerful image, put it up on the screen for people to look at
or 1 or 2 facts, put it up there for people to look at.
If you have a traditional PowerPoint slide deck, my recommendation email that in advance, offer to
email it to them after the online meeting.
But don't just be going through a deck quickly fastly while you're talking over a bunch of slides that
just puts everyone to sleep.
Now you need to practice your speech.
Really rehearse it and I say speech, presentation, talk.
I just mean your mouth is moving.
You're trying to communicate ideas, in this case online.
You need to practice it on video until you like it.
And then ideally, if you have a good one on video before your actual live event, send it out to a
few colleagues.
Get feedback from them.
These are the fundamentals that will really carry you a long way when it comes to your online meetings.
So many people make the mistake of fixating on the right camera and the right light and the right microphone
and makeup and all this.
But then they start to speak and it's boring because they're reading or it's just a date.
None of this other stuff matters if you're putting everyone to sleep.
And as you've heard me mention, one of the aspects of online meeting is it's never been easier for
people to literally fall asleep.
They can hit the mute button.
The camera isn't on them, and we don't want to make it easier for them to do that.
So these are the fundamentals of the presentation.
You still need to speak in a way that's interesting, understandable and memorable.
If you do that online or offline, you'll be in great shape.

--- Tips for Using Visuals In Online Meetings ---

There are numerous excellent tools out there for you communicating with people in an online meeting
where you're using visuals.
It doesn't have to be just you speaking.
You can use traditional PowerPoint slides, you can draw on your screen, you can bring up animation.
Whatever you do, make sure it's done with the purpose of really making your ideas become more understandable
to the people you're speaking with and more memorable.
You shouldn't use glitz just for glitz sake.
You shouldn't use animation just for animation sake.
And that way it's similar to an in-person PowerPoint presentation.
Only use what's really going to be helpful to your audience.
Now, one of the tools I love the most is simply sharing my screen.
And that way when I'm in a meeting, I can show people exactly what I'm talking about.
They can see my cursor.
So if you're going to do that, do it in advance, practice it, make sure you know exactly how to share
the screen in whatever platform you're on.
They're all a little bit different.
You don't want to have to learn a new technology in front of people when important clients, customers,
colleagues are all listening to you and focusing on you, practice in advance.
It'll be so much easier.
Also, make sure you have nothing extra up on your computer.
Get rid of every other browser, Get rid of every other page email, get it all down, only have the
platform open you're using to speak this way.
You've minimized the possibilities of crashes, conflicts, notifications popping up, and you don't
want anything embarrassing to pop up.
Let's say you're sharing a screen and you think you're going to the web page you want to share or your
PowerPoint presentation, but it instead goes to your email and there's something highly personal,
possibly embarrassing up there.
Get rid of all the tabs.
You don't want a tab of some naughty or embarrassing site showing up because that's unfortunately the
only thing people will remember from your video conference.
If they see something that makes them giggle or laugh because it was up on your screen.
So get rid of every additional page, every additional application, only have up what you need.
In addition to all this, my recommendation restart your entire computer at least a half an hour before
you start your teleconference.
I say a half an hour.
This has happened to me before.
I waited until five minutes before I'm restarting it and that's when my computer decides it's time to
do updates and it needs ten minutes.
Give yourself at least a half an hour.
That way, you know everything is updated.
You don't have any extra clutter on it.
Your computer is less likely to freeze and you can have a successful online meeting.

--- What If I am Not Hosting the Online Meeting But Might Have to Speak? ---

Sometimes you'll be in an online meeting.
It's not your meeting.
You didn't call it.
You're not calling things to order.
You're not the first presenter, but you will still have to speak.
Maybe just to answer a question, maybe to give a five minute update on what your section is doing,
but you still have to speak.
I want you to take this opportunity seriously because when you're speaking, whether it's in real life
or online, people are watching you, they are listening to you, they're making judgments about you,
your intelligence, your capabilities, your long term prospects.
Every time you speak online, just like offline, you have a chance to make a good impression, a bad
impression, no impression or a great impression and actually communicate important ideas.
That's my goal for you.
So come prepared if you think that there's a good chance that you might have to speak because half the
meetings you go to, your boss says, Hey, give everyone a quick update on the Smithers Project, then
be prepared, practice it and realize that you don't want to waste time.
Just speak.
Deliver the ideas you have in as interesting and engaging a way as possible.
Also, realize that even when you're not speaking, the decorum in some platforms is to have a camera
on everyone.
So people are still watching you, so be careful playing with your face or scratching.
In different areas, people are on you.
Also critically important, have your mute button on at all times unless you are speaking.
Sirens could be going by.
Kids could be running in and asking you questions.
At least with the sound off, you minimize the distractions, but still take it seriously.
Even if there's only a chance you're going to be talking for two minutes in your next online meeting.

--- What Should My last Minute Checklist Include? ---

Here's a last minute checklist of things you need to do right before your next live online conference.
For starters, don't wait till the last minute.
If it's an important meeting, you're talking to an important group of colleagues.
Clients, customers.
Start at least the day before.
Try the platform.
You have perhaps used Skype before or Zoom, but maybe it's been a few months.
They change things all the time.
They change the layout, they change the look, they change the functions.
Really use it in depth at least a day before.
So you're completely certain you know how everything works now, if it's the day of your conference
call and it's an important meeting again, leave nothing to chance.
Restart your computer.
Try it again.
I recommend that you call somebody in advance using the same system.
So if you're meeting with ten colleagues from different locations around the country, around the home,
call one of them an hour in advance and say, I just want to make sure everything's working.
You can see me.
I can see you.
Do that every single time.
It's crucial.
If you're meeting with people and you haven't met with them regularly, send them the information on
what they need to download.
Most of these platforms require you to download certain things, to give permissions to access the microphone,
the audio.
So if you're counting on someone else to deliver important information in your presentation, don't
leave it up to chance.
Make sure they do it in advance.
Test them in advance.
Because I can tell you, I've been guilty of this.
People wait until two minutes beforehand.
They're trying to download something.
They're getting frustrated.
They need to restart their computer.
And before you know it.
It's seven minutes past the hour.
Half the people have already left because you haven't started.
And now a straggler to worst case you is just now signing up.
You don't want that.
So make sure everyone has downloaded everything they need for the particular platform you are using.
If you have to call someone in your own home, do it.
If you have to call yourself on your cell phone and answer it back and forth, I've done that.
Anything to give you that confidence in knowing it works?
Most of the platforms do have an additional checklist, so you can make sure that you're able to hear
from that platform and that that platform can accept your microphone and hear you, even though you've
used it perhaps dozens of times.
Check it again right before.
Now, in real life, if you're someone who always shows up on time for meetings, you know as well as
I do, it's annoying to get there on time and then have to wait for others.
If this is your meeting, then I want you to forget being late.
I don't even want you to be on time.
I want you to be early.
Sign on early, make sure everything is working.
I like to sign on at least five minutes before the start time.
That way you can say hello to people when they come on.
There's less pressure.
People can get used to each other's voices.
They can get used to putting the mute button on, and this way you can start right on time, or at least
as close to on time as possible.
So you don't waste the time of the people who showed up on time.
Now, other things on your checklist.
Make sure if you're in a house with other people, do not disturb sign goes on your door.
If you have a separate room.
If you're doing this in a common space, a bedroom, a living room, make sure others in your family
know this is not the time to be walking by in your bathrobe or a towel and calling out.
They need to give you some quiet time and some privacy.
And finally, think about your own comfort.
If this is going to be an hour long conference call.
Have your water, but you don't want to have to say, Oh, excuse me, let me get up and go get something
and come back.
Also.
Have some tea.
I mean, that's part of the advantage of having a conference call from home is you should have access
to tea, coffee, things like that.
Ideally, I hope you do.
Figure out what you need to make yourself comfortable.
Oh, before the meeting starts, If it's going to be more than a 20 minute conference call, I'd recommend
go to the bathroom one last time.
You don't want to have to have unnecessary interruptions in the live conference call.
Finally, make sure you have any documents, any notes that you want to use if you are using.
A system that allows you to run PowerPoint or to run any other sort of presentation software.
Do a run through, do a practice with it.
On the actual system.
You may have used it on a laptop.
The paper version, but you want to get comfortable using it in the actual online meeting platform you're
using.
Do all these things right before every single important conference call and you'll be in much better
shape.

--- How Long Should a Video Meeting Last? ---

How long should your virtual meeting last?
Well, it's kind of like a meeting in real life.
As long as it takes, but not a minute more.
Respect the time of everyone you're calling and meeting with.
If you can do the whole thing in five minutes.
Don't block out an hour.
Don't block out a half an hour.
Use the time you need, but use it effectively.
Let people realize every minute is valuable.
It's respected, and you're not going to waste their time.
Now, there may be times when you have to do a much longer meeting.
Let's say you were scheduled to have a daylong conference, an eight hour conference, and now you can't
fly and meet together.
You have to do the whole thing virtually.
That's okay.
But critically important to schedule breaks.
I like to schedule breaks at least once every 50 minutes for online meetings.
People need to stretch.
People need to check, see if there's an emergency email.
People need to run to the restroom, get a glass of water.
So give people frequent breaks.
If you're doing a two, three, four, eight hour video conference.

--- How do I Fix Problems with My Voice on a Video Conference? ---

What are the biggest mistakes you can make with your voice when you are speaking, presenting on a live
video conference call or a webinar or online meeting?
It's not that you have an ugly voice or that you have a bad voice or that you need accent reduction
or any of that now.
The two biggest problems by far most people have with their voice.
They speak too quickly.
If you speak quickly, no one can understand what you're saying.
That happens when you're nervous.
So you really have to monitor how fast you go.
Don't speak too quickly.
The other big problem.
Speaking too softly.
When people are nervous, they tend to speak faster than normal.
Softer than normal.
If you're speaking softly.
People can't understand you if they can't hear you.
They're going to just tune out.
They're going to go check Facebook or do something else.
So be mindful of those two areas.
Now, you've heard me mention this before, but the solution is you have to practice on video.
You have to know exactly how you are coming across.
You can calibrate your speed and your volume by practicing and hearing it and tweaking it.
But if you spend all your time just gathering information, worrying about the camera, and then you're
speaking for the first time in front of an important audience in an online meeting, you'll have no
idea how quickly or how softly you're speaking.
So I'm begging you, practice in advance on video and calibrate that speed and volume just right.

--- Should You Memorize Your Online Presentation? ---

Should you memorize what you're going to say on a video conference meeting?
No, that never works.
It doesn't work in real life.
When people are giving speeches and presentations, it's not going to work on a video conference either
too.
Because what happens when non professional actors try to memorize is all of a sudden they start to sound
like this.
They kind of sound like a robot.
It robs your voice of natural flow.
So no, don't try to memorize anything for important presentations.
Yes.
As we've talked about, you definitely want to rehearse on video, but don't memorize.
Remember, there's nothing wrong with glancing down at your notes from time to time.

--- What If You Hate the Sound of Your Own Voice? ---

What do you do If you hate the sound of your own voice?
You think your voice quality is bad, it's deficient, its irritating.
So you don't like speaking into any kind of microphone, you don't like recording it and you don't want
to hear yourself on the playback.
Okay, time out a second.
Let's be real.
Everybody hates the sound of their own voice.
I should say most people don't like the sound of their own voice.
So if you don't like how you sound, you're in good company.
Chances are your voice is perfectly fine.
It just sounds weird to you coming out of the speaker from your computer or a cell phone because you're
used to hearing your voice all day long, distorted through the bones in your skull.
So when you hear your own voice coming through a speaker, you're hearing it relatively less distorted
than how you normally do.
So it sounds weird to you.
It's not your self-image of your voice.
Relax.
I've worked with more than 10,000 clients for the last 25 years all over the world, preparing them
to speak to the media and in front of cameras.
95% didn't like the sound of their own voice.
And I've never had a single client whose voice was so awful, irritating that it was driving people
away.
So my advice get over it.
Nobody cares about your voice.
You're not trying to be a movie voiceover artist.
The simplest way to get over this.
Practice more and listen to yourself.
Now, this doesn't mean that your voice can't be improved if you've done your rehearsal on video as
I've asked you to, then you can hear your voice.
If you find yourself speaking too quickly, slow down.
If you find yourself speaking at a monotone, realize that's a problem.
You need to speak.
Sometimes a little louder, sometimes softer, sometimes faster, sometimes slower.
And most important, you've got to pause.
That's what people do in real life.
Conversation for effective in-person meetings.
That's what you have to do for your video online meetings to.

--- How Do You Reduce Background Noise? ---

So what do you do if you have a mid group or a large group all online for the teleconference and you
hear noise, background sounds, talking, whispering, murmuring?
Well, let's back up.
If you're talking to more than one person in a teleconference, you need to say right at the outset,
please mute your microphone.
You don't want to hear anyone else's noise.
They should unmute it only when they are speaking.
This applies to you too.
If you are speaking, you're finished and someone else is speaking, then mute your button.
Ideally, there's only one live microphone at any one point in a teleconference if there's just two
of you.
Yeah, that's a little different.
You can both have your mics on, but otherwise once the group gets larger, have the default be that
everyone's microphone is muted, it'll be so much easier for people to hear, listen to you and others
and concentrate.

--- What Else Can I do to Reduce Distractions During a Video Conference Meeting? ---

What else can you do to minimize distractions during your video conference?
Turn your phone off.
I don't mean just the sound.
I mean literally turn the phone off.
That way you're much less likely to get notifications, text messages if you have iPads around, turn
those off.
If you use it, iWatch, you can put the settings on the theater and the do not disturb mode.
That way you don't get notifications coming.
You don't even see the light come up when you're doing this because it's on the theater mode.
Try to get other phones in your house out of your office or away from earshot.
Of course.
Put a do not Disturb sign on your door.
If you do have a separate room, lock the door.
You don't want to be like the guy on the BBC a few years ago whose kids came coming in and he's doing
the middle of a BBC interview.
You want as much privacy, quiet as possible.
Get rid of the rings, the buzzers, the rings.
If you can stop any other alarms, do so.
You want to be able to focus on one thing at a time.
The people you are meeting with virtually.

--- This Is What You Must Do If You Really Want to Pass With Flying Colors ---

Ora è tempo di decisione.
Devi davvero decidere se tirerai fuori qualcosa da questo corso.
O hai intenzione di sederti e ascoltare, insegnerai una lezione qui e diventerai un critico cinematografico.
In tal caso è una perdita di tempo.
Se vuoi ottenere qualcosa da questa causa, ho bisogno che tu metta in pratica in questo momento tutto
ciò di cui abbiamo parlato.
Voglio che ti registri mentre parli come se stessi parlando con un vero cliente o un collega durante una chiamata in
conferenza.
Ora non deve durare un'ora.
Puoi fare solo uno o due minuti.
Ma voglio che tu faccia una pratica di simulazione come se stessi introducendo un concetto che promuove qualcosa fornendo
un riepilogo di un rapporto su cui hai lavorato nell'ultimo mese nel tuo settore.
Ma parla come se questo fosse l'inizio di un webinar live, guardalo.
Scopri cosa non ti piace.
Quindi voglio che tu condivida quel video nella sezione Domande e risposte degli studenti proprio qui sulla piattaforma del corso.
Ora puoi semplicemente caricarlo su YouTube o Facebook ovunque.
Inserisci la sezione "sei fuori" nello studente q in una sezione oppure puoi pubblicare il tuo video direttamente nella pagina Facebook
che è stata creata per supportare gli studenti di questo corso.
Per favore, non passare questo.
Ti prometto che guarderò il tuo video e otterrai una critica personalizzata.
Altri studenti guarderanno.
Nessuno si prende gioco di nessuno qui.
Siamo tutti insieme, tutti sono un po 'insicuri, quindi per favore non andare al video successivo e dire oh, ho completato il
corso e ho ricevuto un piccolo certificato per fare questi compiti e assicuriamoci davvero di essere tutti
uguali pagina e ti senti come se stessi facendo il meglio e hai ottenuto
qualche conferma esterna indipendente che stai facendo del tuo meglio.

--- One last Chance to Get Your Questions and Suggestions Responded To ---

We're almost towards the end.
I just want to give you one last chance.
If you have any questions about any aspect of what we've talked about in this course or anything we
haven't talked about, if you still have questions about how you can come across in your most effective
manner possible for live video conferencing for meetings online, then go ahead and post your questions
right here, right now in the student Q&amp;A section or in the student Facebook page.
If you have any suggestions on how to make this course any better, please post them right here.
I try to quickly, sometimes within 24 hours, make the changes.
If that means making more videos, answering your questions on video, I am here for you.
This is a live real course.
I'm not live this second, but I'm a real instructor.
I'm not some celebrity brought in to be interviewed once I'm here for you and I'm in the course every
single day, so please take advantage of it.

--- Here Is How You Can Get your Certificate of Completion for this Course ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- One Last Chance to Make This Course Better for Your Permanent Learning Library ---

Okay, I admit it.
I'm a hypocrite.
I ask for reviews.
I don't always leave reviews.
I say, Well, I'm so important.
I'm in a rush.
Let me just finish the course and forget the reviews.
Well, I feel for you.
I've been there.
But I'm telling you, I really need you to leave a written review of this course.
Let me know what you think.
What did you like?
What could be better?
That's how this course will improve.
Now, the beauty of online courses is they're not like books where you just print it.
That's it.
It never changes.
This course changes constantly.
It's updated.
We add things, we take things out.
Now you can probably see I got less hair than some of the earlier videos in this course.
That's because this video is new.
We're always updating.
Now, I might not look prettier, but we are trying to make this course look prettier and be better
for you.
So I'm asking, please leave a written review and don't just leave a star number.
Actually leave several sentences.
Let me know what you took away from this course.
How did it help you or not help you give as much details as possible.
That's the only way I can make this course better for you.
And hey, since you now have lifetime access to this course, the course is going to get better for
you too.
So please don't just fast forward.
Leave a review right now.
If you've already left a review, you can always hit the edit button, top right hand portion of your
screen and you can leave a more detailed review.
Thanks so much.
I really do appreciate it.

--- Congrats! You Are Now Prepared to Communicate Effectively in Online Meetings ---

We're almost towards the end.
I just want to give you one last chance.
If you have any questions about any aspect of what we've talked about in this course or anything we
haven't talked about, if you still have questions about how you can come across in your most effective
manner possible for live video conferencing for meetings online, then go ahead and post your questions
right here, right now in the student Q&amp;A section or in the student Facebook page.
If you have any suggestions on how to make this course any better, please post them right here.
I try to quickly, sometimes within 24 hours, make the changes.
If that means making more videos, answering your questions on video, I am here for you.
This is a live real course.
I'm not live this second, but I'm a real instructor.
I'm not some celebrity brought in to be interviewed once I'm here for you and I'm in the course every
single day, so please take advantage of it.

--- How AI is Changing Business Storytelling and What You Must Know ---

In the rapidly evolving landscape of business communication, artificial intelligence AI is playing
a pivotal role in reshaping storytelling techniques.
Today, we delve into how AI is revolutionizing the art of storytelling in the business world and the
critical insights you need to stay ahead.
AI has transformed the way we create, share, and engage with stories offering unprecedented opportunities
for personalization and interactivity.
At the heart of this transformation is the ability to analyze vast amounts of data to understand audience
preferences and behaviors.
AI algorithms can sift through this data to identify trends and patterns, enabling storytellers to
craft messages that resonate deeply with their target audiences.
This level of personalization ensures that each story is not just heard, but felt, creating a more
profound connection between the storyteller and the listener.
Moreover, AI is enhancing the storytelling process through the generation of dynamic content.
Gone are the days of static, one size fits all narratives.
AI powered tools can now create stories that adapt in real time, changing elements like tone, style,
and complexity based on the audience's response.
This dynamic storytelling approach ensures that the narrative remains engaging and relevant, capturing
the audience's attention from start to finish.
Another significant impact of AI on business storytelling is the automation of content creation.
AI can generate reports, articles, and even entire presentations with minimal human input, saving
valuable time and resources.
This automation allows storytellers to focus on the strategic aspects of their message, such as framing
and delivery, while leaving the heavy lifting to AI.
Ethical considerations also come into play when discussing AI in storytelling.
As AI becomes more intertwined with the creation and dissemination of stories, ensuring that these
narratives are truthful and do not manipulate or mislead the audience is crucial.
The responsibility lies with businesses to use AI ethically.
Fostering trust and credibility with their audience.
In conclusion, AI is not just changing the way stories are told in the business world.
It's revolutionizing it.
From personalized narratives and dynamic content to automated content creation and ethical storytelling.
AI offers a myriad of opportunities for businesses to connect with their audience on a deeper level.
As storytellers, embracing AI and understanding its potential will enable us to craft compelling,
impactful stories that not only inform but inspire.

--- Download The *Amazing* +100 Page Workbook For this Course ---

In this course, we provide you with one page downloads for each of the high quality lessons, which
you can access from the curriculum on the right hand side of the lesson player window.
You can download these with each lesson so you have them for easy reference as you apply the principles
and learnings from the course.
We have also combined and consolidated all of these one pages into a single workbook, which puts everything
in one place for your convenience.
You can download it right here from this lesson and work through it as you complete the course.
So just to recap, we've taken the time to capture all the key takeaways from each lesson and put them
in individual lesson downloads.
Plus we've combined them into a single consolidated workbook.
We hope you find all these resources valuable in helping you achieve your goals through this course.
Make sure to download the consolidated workbook from this lesson and enjoy!

--- Download Your *Complimentary* eBook For This Course ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Get This Course In Audio Format: Download All Audio Files From This Lecture ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Introduce Yourself And Tell Us Your Awesome Goals With This Course ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Leveraging AI-Powered Tools for Smarter and More Engaging Stories ---

In today's lesson, we will dive into the transformative power of AI powered tools in storytelling.
The digital age has ushered in a new era where artificial intelligence is not just a buzzword, but
a pivotal tool in crafting stories that captivate and engage audiences like never before.
As storytellers, embracing AI tools can elevate our narratives, making them more relevant, personalized,
and impactful.
At the heart of AI and storytelling is the ability to analyze vast amounts of data to identify trends,
preferences, and patterns in audience behavior.
This insight allows us to tailor our stories to resonate deeply with our audience, ensuring that each
story is not just heard, but felt.
Imagine crafting a narrative that speaks directly to the listener's experiences, interests, and desires.
This level of personalization was once a Herculean task, but is now attainable through the power of
AI algorithms.
Moreover, AI tools are revolutionizing the way we generate content, from creating realistic and complex
characters to developing plot lines that adapt and evolve based on audience feedback.
AI is pushing the boundaries of creativity.
This technology enables a dynamic storytelling process where stories are not static, but living entities
that grow and change, offering a unique experience to every listener.
One of the most compelling uses of AI in storytelling is its ability to break down language barriers.
Real time language translation and localization tools mean that stories can now reach a global audience
without losing their essence.
This democratization of content has opened up new avenues for storytellers, allowing us to share our
narratives with a worldwide audience and in turn, enrich our stories with diverse perspectives and
cultural nuances.
However, the integration of AI and storytelling is not without its challenges.
Ethical considerations such as data privacy and the authenticity of AI generated content are at the
forefront of discussions.
As we navigate this new landscape, it's crucial to strike a balance between leveraging AI to enhance
our storytelling while maintaining ethical standards and preserving the human touch that lies at the
heart of every great story.
In conclusion, AI powered tools offer an unprecedented opportunity to transform storytelling.
By harnessing the capabilities of AI, we can create more engaging, personalized, and globally accessible
narratives.
As we look to the future, the fusion of technology and creativity promises to usher in a new era of
storytelling that is more dynamic, inclusive, and impactful than ever before.
Let's embrace this journey exploring the endless possibilities that AI brings to our storytelling toolkit.

--- How Generative AI Can Personalize Your Storytelling for Any Audience ---

In today's digital age, storytelling isn't just about crafting a compelling narrative.
It's about personalizing that narrative for your audience.
Generative AI stands at the forefront of this evolution, offering an unprecedented opportunity to tailor
stories that resonate on a personal level with every listener.
Imagine a world where your stories adapt in real time, reflecting the interests, culture, and even
the mood of your audience.
This isn't the future.
It's happening right now.
Generative AI, a branch of artificial intelligence, enables machines to generate text, images, and
even voice in a way that mimics human creativity.
But how does this technology transform storytelling?
The key lies in its ability to analyze vast amounts of data and learn from it, by understanding the
preferences and behaviors of your audience.
Generative AI can help you create stories that are not just engaging, but also deeply personalized.
Consider the example of a marketing campaign for a global brand.
Traditionally, the same narrative would be broadcasted across different regions.
However, with generative AI, the brand can now develop unique stories for each market, reflecting
local culture, trends and languages.
This level of personalization increases engagement and strengthens the connection between the brand
and its consumers.
Moreover, generative AI can adapt stories in real time.
Imagine delivering a presentation that changes based on the live feedback of your audience.
If certain sections engage them more, the AI can extend those segments, or if some parts are less
interesting, it can shorten them on the fly.
This dynamic adaptation ensures that your storytelling is always hitting the mark, keeping your audience
captivated from start to finish.
But it's not just about personalization and adaptation.
Generative AI also opens up new avenues for creativity by generating ideas, plotlines, or even characters.
AI can assist storytellers in exploring narratives they might not have considered otherwise.
This collaborative partnership between human and machine enriches the storytelling process, leading
to more innovative and captivating narratives.
Ethically, the use of generative AI in storytelling comes with its considerations.
As storytellers, we have a responsibility to use this technology in a way that respects privacy and
promotes authenticity.
It's about enhancing our stories with AI, not replacing the human element that makes them resonate
on a profound level.
In conclusion, generative AI is not just changing the landscape of storytelling, it's revolutionizing
it by personalizing narratives, adapting content in real time, and unlocking new creative possibilities.
This technology allows us to connect with our audience in ways we never thought possible.
As we look to the future, the fusion of human creativity and artificial intelligence promises to bring
our stories to life in the most engaging and impactful ways.
Let's embrace this journey, exploring the vast potential of generative AI to tell stories that captivate,
inspire, and most importantly, connect.

--- AI vs. Human Creativity: Striking the Right Balance in Storytelling ---

In today's digital age, the interplay between artificial intelligence, AI and human creativity in
storytelling is more relevant than ever as we navigate through this intricate dance.
It's crucial to strike a balance that leverages the strengths of both.
AI, with its ability to process and analyze vast amounts of data, brings a new dimension to creativity,
offering insights and generating ideas at a speed and volume that humans alone cannot achieve.
However, the essence of storytelling, with its emotional depth and connection remains a distinctly
human trait.
Let's delve into the realm of AI generated content.
Tools like GPT three have revolutionized content creation, providing the ability to produce written
material that closely mimics human writing.
This technology can draft stories, create dialogue, or even generate entire articles in a matter of
seconds.
The implications for storytelling are vast, allowing creators to generate new ideas.
overcome writer's block or flesh out story arcs with unprecedented efficiency.
Yet the question arises can I truly replace the human touch in storytelling?
The answer lies in understanding the unique contributions of human creativity.
Storytelling is not just about stringing words together.
It's about conveying emotions, building connections, and inspiring change.
Humans excel at understanding the nuances of emotion, cultural contexts, and ethical considerations
that I currently cannot fully grasp.
Consider the success of films, novels, and speeches that resonate on a deeply personal level.
These stories often stem from personal experiences, emotional journeys, and a deep understanding of
the human condition elements that I has yet to replicate fully.
The beauty of storytelling lies in its ability to convey the complexity of human emotions, something
that requires empathy, intuition, and personal experience.
So how do we strike the right balance?
The key is in collaboration.
By combining AI's capabilities with human insight, we can create richer, more diverse narratives.
AI can assist in data analysis, idea generation, and even drafting content.
But the final touch, the soul of the story, comes from the human creator.
This synergy allows storytellers to explore new horizons, push boundaries, and tell stories that are
both innovative and deeply human.
In conclusion, as we look towards the future of storytelling, it's clear that AI will play an increasingly
significant role.
However, the essence of storytelling its heart and soul remains a human endeavor.
By embracing the strengths of both AI and human creativity, we can tell stories that are not only engaging
and innovative, but also deeply resonant and meaningful.
The future of storytelling is not about choosing between AI and human creativity, but about how we
can bring the best of both worlds together to inspire, entertain, and enlighten.

--- Case Study: How Companies Are Using AI to Enhance Storytelling Impact ---

In today's session, we delve into the transformative power of artificial intelligence in storytelling,
particularly focusing on how businesses are leveraging this technology to captivate and engage their
audiences like never before.
Artificial intelligence is not just a buzzword, it's a tool that has revolutionized the way stories
are told, making them more personalized, interactive, and impactful.
Let's explore some compelling case studies that illustrate this evolution.
One of the most groundbreaking applications of AI and storytelling can be seen in the entertainment
industry.
Netflix, a leader in digital streaming, uses AI algorithms to analyze viewing patterns, preferences,
and behaviors.
This data driven approach allows Netflix to craft personalized recommendations, ensuring that users
find content that resonates with them on a personal level.
But it doesn't stop there.
Netflix also employs AI to inform its content creation process, helping writers and producers understand
what themes, genres, and storytelling elements are most likely to succeed.
Moving beyond entertainment.
AI's impact on storytelling extends to the marketing sector.
Coca-Cola a global beverage giant, has harnessed AI to create dynamic advertising campaigns that adapt
to consumer responses in real time.
By analyzing data on consumer engagement, Coca-Cola's AI systems can modify messaging, visuals, and
even product offers to better align with audience preferences.
This level of personalization ensures that each consumer feels uniquely understood, deepening their
connection to the brand.
In the realm of journalism, The Washington Post has introduced an AI powered robot reporter named Heliograf.
This innovative tool automates the generation of news reports on topics like elections and sports events,
freeing human journalists to focus on in-depth investigations and storytelling.
Heliograf doesn't just regurgitate facts, it crafts narratives that are coherent, factually accurate,
and stylistically consistent with the Post's editorial guidelines.
This fusion of human creativity and AI efficiency exemplifies the future of journalistic storytelling.
Moreover, AI is making strides in interactive storytelling where the audience becomes a part of the
narrative.
The video game industry in particular has seen remarkable advancements with AI driven games that adapt
to player's decisions, creating a unique story for each player.
Games like Detroit Become Human by Quantic Dream allow players to navigate complex moral dilemmas,
with AI algorithms generating consequences that reflect the player's choices.
This level of interactivity and personalization brings a new dimension to storytelling, making each
experience truly one of a kind.
In conclusion, the integration of artificial intelligence and storytelling is not merely enhancing
the way stories are told.
It's redefining the very nature of narratives, from personalized content recommendations to dynamic
advertising, automated journalism and interactive gaming.
AI is enabling storytellers to engage with their audiences in more meaningful, customized, and impactful
ways.
As we look to the future, it's clear that AI will continue to play a pivotal role in shaping the evolution
of storytelling, pushing the boundaries of creativity, engagement, and personalization.
Embracing this technology offers storytellers an unprecedented opportunity to connect with their audience
on a deeper level, making every story not just heard, but truly felt.

--- Hyper-Personalization: Crafting Stories That Resonate with Every Listener ---

In today's lesson, we dive deep into the world of hyper personalization, a cutting edge strategy that's
transforming how stories are told and received in our increasingly digital world.
Hyper personalization goes beyond traditional personalization techniques by leveraging data analytics,
artificial intelligence, and real time feedback to create highly individualized narratives.
This approach ensures that each listener feels a unique connection to the story being told, significantly
enhancing engagement and impact.
At the heart of hyper personalization is the sophisticated use of data.
Every interaction a user has with digital content offers insights into their preferences, behaviors,
and needs.
By analyzing this data, storytellers can craft messages that resonate on a personal level with their
audience.
For instance, streaming services like Netflix and Spotify use Hyper personalization to recommend shows
and music based on individual viewing and listening habits.
This not only improves the user experience, but also fosters a deeper emotional connection with the
platform.
Another key aspect of hyper personalization is the integration of AI.
Artificial intelligence algorithms can process vast amounts of data at incredible speeds, identifying
patterns and preferences that might not be apparent to human analysts.
This capability allows for the dynamic adjustment of content, ensuring that it remains relevant and
engaging to each user over time.
For example, e-commerce platforms utilize AI to personalize shopping experiences, displaying products
similar to those a user has shown interest in or purchased in the past.
Real time feedback is the final piece of the hyper personalization puzzle.
By continuously monitoring how individuals engage with content, storytellers can make immediate adjustments
to their narratives.
This agility ensures that the story evolves in a way that maintains the listener's interest and engagement.
Social media platforms excel in this area, using real time analytics to tailor the content that appears
in a user's feed, ensuring it aligns with their current interests and interactions.
In conclusion, hyper personalization represents a significant leap forward in the art of storytelling
by leveraging data, AI, and real time feedback.
Storytellers can create highly personalized narratives that resonate with each listener on an individual
level.
This approach not only enhances engagement and satisfaction, but also builds a stronger, more personal
connection between the storyteller and their audience.
As we move forward, the ability to master hyper personalization will become increasingly crucial for
anyone looking to make a meaningful impact through their stories.

--- How to Maintain Authenticity in an AI-Driven World of Communication ---

In today's digital age.
Maintaining authenticity in communication, especially when it's driven by artificial intelligence,
poses a unique set of challenges and opportunities.
As we navigate through this AI driven world, it's crucial to understand the balance between leveraging
technology and retaining our human essence.
Let's delve into how we can achieve this balance and ensure our communications remain genuine, impactful,
and true to our core values.
Artificial intelligence has transformed the way we interact, offering unprecedented levels of personalization
and efficiency from chatbots that handle customer service service inquiries to AI driven content creation
tools that craft personalized messages, the landscape of communication has been revolutionized.
However, with these advancements, the question of authenticity arises how do we ensure that our messages,
though facilitated by AI, retain a human touch?
Firstly, it's essential to recognize the value of empathy and emotional intelligence in communication.
I can analyze data and patterns, but the human capacity to understand and convey emotions is unparalleled.
By infusing AI generated content with personal stories, real life examples, and a tone that resonates
on a human level, we can bridge the gap between technology and genuine connection.
Furthermore, transparency about the use of AI in communication fosters trust.
When audiences are aware that AI tools are being utilized, setting the right expectations becomes easier.
This honesty not only enhances credibility, but also opens up a dialogue about the role of technology
in our interactions.
Another critical aspect is the ethical use of AI as we harness the power of artificial intelligence.
Adhering to ethical standards and respecting privacy and data protection laws is paramount.
By doing so, we ensure that our use of AI in communication not only serves our objectives, but also
respects the rights and dignity of all individuals involved.
Incorporating feedback mechanisms is also vital as AI driven communication tools learn and adapt.
Incorporating human feedback helps these systems to evolve in ways that are more aligned with authentic
human interaction.
This continuous loop of feedback and improvement enables AI to become more sophisticated in understanding
and mimicking the nuances of human communication.
In conclusion, while AI offers remarkable tools for enhancing our communication strategies, maintaining
authenticity requires a conscious effort.
By combining the analytical power of AI with the emotional depth and ethical considerations of human
input, we can create a communication landscape that is both technologically advanced and deeply human.
As we move forward, let's embrace these tools with the intention of enriching our connections, not
replacing them, ensuring that every message we send is as authentic as it is efficient.

--- Top 5 Storytelling Techniques for Making Virtual Presentations Feel Personal ---

In today's digital age, making virtual presentations feel personal is more crucial than ever.
With the shift towards remote work and online meetings, capturing and maintaining your audience's attention
through a screen presents unique challenges.
However, with the right storytelling techniques, you can bridge the virtual gap and create a compelling,
engaging experience for your listeners.
Let's dive into the top five storytelling techniques that can transform your virtual presentations.
Firstly, personal stories are your secret weapon.
Sharing personal experiences not only humanizes you to your audience, but also makes your content relatable.
When you open up about your challenges, successes, or lessons learned, you create an emotional connection.
This connection is the foundation of engagement, making your audience more invested in what you have
to say next.
Secondly, the power of visuals cannot be overstated.
In a virtual setting, your audience's attention can easily wander.
By incorporating relevant, captivating visuals into your presentation, you grab their attention and
help them visualize your message, whether it's through infographics, videos, or powerful images.
Visuals serve as anchors, keeping your audience focused and engaged.
Thirdly, interactive elements play a crucial role in making virtual presentations feel personal.
Polls, Q&amp;A sessions, and interactive quizzes break the monotony and foster a sense of participation.
These elements not only keep your audience on their toes, but also provide valuable feedback, allowing
you to tailor your presentation in real time to better meet their needs and interests.
Fourthly, storytelling is not just about what you say, but how you say it.
Vocal variety and pacing are essential tools in your storytelling arsenal.
By varying your tone, speed, and volume, you create dynamics in your presentation that can emphasize
key points, build suspense, or convey emotions.
This vocal engagement keeps your audience hooked as they're constantly anticipating what comes next.
Lastly, the use of metaphors and analogies can make complex ideas more accessible and memorable.
By drawing parallels to familiar concepts, you simplify the information, making it easier for your
audience to understand and retain metaphors and analogies not only aid comprehension, but also add
a creative flair to your presentation, making it more enjoyable and impactful.
In conclusion, virtual presentations present unique challenges in connecting with your audience.
However, by incorporating personal stories, leveraging powerful visuals, engaging your audience interactively,
utilizing vocal variety, and simplifying complex ideas with metaphors and analogies, you can make
your virtual presentations feel as personal and impactful as face to face meetings.
These storytelling techniques are not just strategies, but essential tools for effective communication
in the digital era, enabling you to captivate and influence your audience from anywhere in the world.

--- The Psychology Behind Personalized Messaging and Emotional Connection ---

Understanding the intricate dance between personalized messaging and emotional connection is pivotal
in today's communication landscape.
The essence of crafting messages that resonate on a personal level with your audience cannot be overstated.
It's about tapping into the emotional fabric that binds us all, ensuring that each word, spoken or
written is not just heard, but felt deeply.
At the heart of personalized messaging lies the concept of emotional intelligence.
This involves recognizing and understanding your audience's feelings and emotions, then reflecting
that understanding back to them through your communication.
It's a powerful tool that, when used effectively, can transform the impact of your storytelling.
Consider the rise of AI in crafting personalized content.
AI technologies have the capability to analyze vast amounts of data to understand consumer behavior
and preferences.
This allows for the creation of highly targeted messages that speak directly to the individual's needs
and desires.
However, the true art lies in balancing technological insights with genuine human empathy.
The most successful communicators are those who can harness the analytical power of AI, while infusing
their messages with authentic emotion and humanity.
Real world examples abound where personalized messaging has forged strong emotional connections.
Take, for instance, the campaigns of major brands that use customer data to send personalized birthday
messages or tailored recommendations based on past purchases.
These strategies demonstrate an understanding of the customer's individual journey and create a sense
of being valued and understood.
Moreover, the impact of personalized messaging extends beyond marketing into the realm of storytelling
and content creation.
Stories that reflect the audience's experiences, challenges, and aspirations can engender a profound
emotional connection, making the message more memorable and impactful.
But the ethical considerations cannot be ignored.
With great power comes great responsibility.
The use of personal data must be approached with the utmost respect for privacy and consent.
It's about striking the right balance between personalization and privacy, ensuring that trust is never
compromised.
In conclusion, the fusion of personalized messaging and emotional connection represents the future
of effective communication.
By understanding and respecting your audience's emotions and by leveraging technology ethically, you
can create messages that resonate on a deeply personal level.
This not only elevates your storytelling, but also fosters a genuine connection with your audience,
paving the way for more meaningful interactions in the digital age.

--- Case Study: How Netflix and Spotify Use Personalization to Drive Engagement ---

In today's lesson, we're going to dive into the fascinating world of personalized content delivery,
focusing on how giants like Netflix and Spotify have mastered this art to drive unparalleled engagement.
Both platforms have become household names not just for their vast libraries, but for their uncanny
ability to know exactly what we want, often before we do.
Let's start with Netflix.
The secret sauce to Netflix's success lies in its recommendation algorithm.
This sophisticated system tracks every show you watch, every rating you give, and even how long you
spend choosing before you watch.
It uses this data to create a highly personalized viewing experience.
This means that the home page you see is dramatically different from what someone else sees.
Tailored specifically to your preferences and viewing history, the result?
You're more likely to find content that you love and keep coming back for more.
Now let's switch gears to Spotify.
Spotify takes personalization to a whole new level with its Discover Weekly feature, a playlist that
feels like it's been handpicked by a close friend who knows your music taste inside out.
But there's no magic here, just data.
Spotify analyzes your listening habits, compares them with users who have similar tastes, and uses
this information to curate a playlist of songs you've never heard but are likely to love.
This not only keeps users engaged, but also helps lesser known artists get discovered, creating a
win win situation.
Both Netflix and Spotify rely on vast amounts of data and cutting edge algorithms to predict and influence
consumer behavior.
But it's not just about technology.
It's about creating a connection, making users feel understood and catered to on a personal level.
This level of personalization has set a new standard in content delivery, pushing competitors to innovate
and adapt.
In conclusion, Netflix and Spotify are not just entertainment platforms, they are pioneers in the
use of personalization to enhance user engagement.
Their success stories offer invaluable lessons for any business looking to leverage data to meet consumer
needs more effectively.
As we move forward, the question for content creators and marketers alike isn't whether to personalize,
but how to do it in a way that feels genuine and respectful to the user.
By understanding and applying the strategies of Netflix and Spotify, businesses can create more engaging,
personalized experiences that drive loyalty and growth.

--- How Leaders Use Storytelling to Drive Ethical Decision-Making in Teams ---

In today's lesson, we dive into the art and science of storytelling, a powerful tool that leaders
use to foster ethical decision making within their teams.
Storytelling is not just about entertaining.
It's a strategic instrument that can shape organizational culture, influence behavior, and guide teams
towards ethical practices.
At the heart of ethical leadership lies the ability to communicate complex ideas and values in a way
that is both engaging and relatable.
By weaving ethical dilemmas and resolutions into narratives, leaders can illustrate the importance
of integrity, accountability, and transparency.
This method of communication is particularly effective because stories connect with individuals on an
emotional level, making the ethical lessons more memorable and impactful.
Consider the case of a tech company grappling with data privacy issues.
Instead of merely stating the importance of user privacy, a leader could share a story about the real
world consequences of a data breach, highlighting the human cost of ethical lapses.
This narrative approach not only makes the issue more tangible, but also encourages team members to
consider their actions in the broader context of societal impact.
Furthermore, storytelling can bridge cultural and generational divides within organizations, creating
a shared understanding of ethical standards in a global company.
For example, leaders might share stories that resonate across different cultures, emphasizing universal
values like respect, fairness, and honesty.
Through storytelling, leaders can cultivate a culture of ethical decision making that transcends individual
backgrounds and fosters a collective sense of responsibility.
But storytelling is not a one way street.
It also involves listening.
Ethical leaders listen to the stories of their team members, understanding their perspectives and challenges.
This two way exchange not only builds trust, but also enriches the organizational narrative, making
it more inclusive and reflective of diverse experiences.
In summary, storytelling is a potent tool for promoting ethical decision making within teams by articulating
ethical dilemmas and values through relatable narratives.
Leaders can influence behavior, foster a culture of integrity, and navigate the complex ethical challenges
of the modern workplace.
As we move forward, let's remember the power of stories to shape our actions and the world around us.

--- Inclusive Storytelling: Adapting Narratives for Diverse and Global Audiences ---

In today's lesson, we delve into the heart of inclusive storytelling, a crucial skill for reaching
and resonating with diverse and global audiences.
As our world becomes increasingly interconnected, the stories we tell and how we tell them must reflect
the rich tapestry of human experience.
Inclusive storytelling is not just about including diverse characters or settings.
It's about weaving narratives that resonate across cultures, experiences, and perspectives, fostering
a deeper understanding and connection among people from all walks of life.
To begin, let's explore the essence of inclusive storytelling.
It's a narrative approach that consciously considers and represents a variety of voices and experiences,
particularly those that have been historically marginalized or underrepresented.
This approach enriches our stories, making them more authentic and engaging for a broader audience.
It challenges stereotypes and promotes empathy, allowing us to see the world through the eyes of others.
One practical strategy for inclusive storytelling is to research and understand the cultural context
you are writing about.
This means going beyond surface level details to grasp the nuances of different cultures and experiences.
It's about listening to and valuing the voices of those who live these experiences daily.
For instance, if your story involves characters from a specific cultural background, consulting members
of that community or experts can provide invaluable insights that enrich your narrative.
Another key aspect is character development.
Inclusive storytelling involves creating multi-dimensional characters who reflect the diversity of the
real world.
These characters should have their own goals, challenges, and growth arcs that go beyond stereotypes
or tokenism.
They should be relatable and complex, allowing readers or viewers to see parts of themselves in the
story regardless of their background.
Language also plays a critical role in inclusive storytelling.
The words we choose can either build bridges or reinforce barriers.
Using inclusive language means being mindful of terms and phrases that resonate positively across different
cultures, and avoiding those that may be alienating or offensive.
It's also about ensuring that the language is accessible to people with different levels of language
proficiency, making the story welcoming to a global audience.
Real world examples of successful, inclusive storytelling abound.
Take, for example, the film Coco by Pixar.
It's a vibrant celebration of Mexican culture and the importance of family, told through the lens of
the Dia de Los Muertos holiday.
The filmmakers deep research and collaboration with cultural consultants resulted in a story that resonates
universally, while honoring the specific traditions and values it portrays.
In conclusion, inclusive storytelling is an art that requires sensitivity research and a genuine desire
to understand and represent the diversity of human experience.
By embracing this approach, storytellers can create narratives that not only entertain, but also educate
and connect people across different backgrounds.
The power of a well-told story to foster empathy and understanding cannot be underestimated.
As storytellers, we have the opportunity to contribute to a more inclusive and connected world, one
story at a time.

--- Top 5 Mistakes Leaders Make When Using Stories to Inspire Change ---

What makes a story compelling enough to inspire change.
Today, we delve into the top five mistakes leaders often make when using stories to influence and drive
transformation within their organizations or communities.
Understanding these pitfalls is the first step towards mastering the art of impactful storytelling.
One common mistake is neglecting the audience's perspective.
A powerful story resonates because it speaks directly to its listener's experiences, fears, hopes,
and dreams.
Leaders sometimes tell stories that are meaningful to them, but fail to consider if their audience
can see themselves reflected in the narrative.
For a story to inspire change, it must be relatable and relevant.
Touching on themes that matter to those listening.
Another error is overlooking the importance of authenticity.
In our digital age, where authenticity is highly valued, listeners can quickly sense when a story
feels manufactured or insincere.
A leader's story must be genuine, revealing vulnerabilities and truths that humanize them.
It's this authenticity that builds trust and connection, making the call to action in the story much
more persuasive.
A third mistake is the failure to structure stories effectively.
A well-told story has a clear beginning, middle, and end with a coherent message that is easy to follow.
Leaders often jump into the narrative without setting the scene or conclude without driving home.
The key takeaway A story structure should guide the audience through the journey, leading them to the
intended insight or lesson.
The fourth pitfall is underestimating the power of visuals and emotions.
Stories are not just about the words spoken, they're about the pictures those words paint and the feelings
they evoke.
Leaders sometimes focus too much on the factual or logical aspects of their message, neglecting the
emotional pull that can truly move people to action.
Incorporating vivid imagery and tapping into universal emotions can make a story far more effective.
Lastly, there's the mistake of not practicing the delivery.
Even the best story can fall flat if it's not presented well.
Leaders might think they can wing it because they know the story well.
But delivery involves timing, tone, pace, and body language.
Practicing the delivery ensures that the story is communicated in a way that captivates and motivates
the audience.
In conclusion, storytelling is a powerful tool for inspiring change, but it requires careful consideration
of the audience authenticity, structure, emotional resonance, and delivery.
By avoiding these common mistakes, leaders can harness the full potential of their stories to connect
deeply with their listeners and drive meaningful action.
Remember, at the heart of every great story is the power to transform both the teller and the audience.

--- Ethical Dilemmas in Storytelling: Where to Draw the Line in Business ---

In today's lesson, we're diving into the complex world of ethical dilemmas in storytelling within the
business context.
Ethical storytelling is not just about what stories we choose to tell, but also how we tell them.
It's a powerful tool that, if used responsibly, can build trust, foster loyalty, and create an emotional
connection with the audience.
However, when the lines of ethics are crossed, it can lead to misinformation, manipulation and a
loss of trust.
Let's start by understanding what ethical storytelling means in a business setting.
Ethical storytelling involves being truthful and transparent, respecting the dignity of all individuals
involved, and ensuring that the stories we share align with our core values and principles.
It's about balancing the art of storytelling with the responsibility of integrity and honesty.
One of the key challenges in ethical storytelling is navigating the fine line between persuasion and
manipulation.
Persuasion aims to influence the audience's beliefs or actions through logical, emotional, or ethical
appeals, while manipulation involves using deceptive or exploitative tactics.
A story that subtly guides the audience towards making an informed decision based on genuine insight
and empathy is persuasive.
In contrast, a story that distorts the truth or plays on the audience's fears for the storyteller's
gain is manipulative.
Consider the case of a company that exaggerates the sustainability of its products to appeal to environmentally
conscious consumers.
This practice, known as greenwashing, is a clear example of unethical storytelling.
It not only misleads consumers, but also undermines the efforts of genuinely sustainable businesses
and the importance of environmental responsibility.
Another ethical consideration is the representation of diverse voices and experiences in storytelling.
In today's global business environment, it's essential to tell stories that reflect the diversity of
our communities and respect cultural sensitivities.
This involves avoiding stereotypes and ensuring that underrepresented groups have a platform to share
their stories.
By doing so, businesses can foster a more inclusive and empathetic corporate culture.
Furthermore, ethical dilemmas in storytelling extend to how companies handle sensitive topics such
as social issues or crises.
The way a company chooses to tell its story during challenging times can significantly impact its reputation
and relationship with stakeholders.
It's crucial to approach these situations with transparency, accountability, and a focus on the wellbeing
of those affected.
In conclusion, ethical storytelling in business is not just about avoiding falsehoods or manipulation.
It's about embracing the power of stories to connect, inspire, and drive positive change while upholding
the highest standards of integrity.
As storytellers, we have the responsibility to ensure that our stories not only captivate but also
contribute to a culture of honesty, respect, and understanding.
Let's strive to tell stories that not only engage the mind, but also the conscience.

--- Case Study: How Patagonia’s Purpose-Driven Storytelling Inspires Loyalty ---

In today's lesson, we dive into the heart of purpose driven storytelling by examining the case of Patagonia,
a brand that has masterfully intertwined its environmental ethos with its business model to inspire
loyalty and drive change.
Patagonia stands as a beacon of how brands can leverage their core values to connect deeply with their
audience, transcending the traditional boundaries of consumerism to foster a community of activists.
At the core of Patagonia's strategy is its unwavering commitment to environmental sustainability.
This commitment is not just a part of their marketing message.
It is woven into the fabric of their operations, product development, and corporate culture.
Patagonia's initiatives, such as the 1% for the planet campaign, where they pledge 1% of their sales
to the preservation and restoration of the natural environment, showcase their dedication to making
a positive impact.
What sets Patagonia apart is how they communicate their mission.
They tell stories that resonate on a personal level stories of adventure, conservation, and the urgent
need for environmental action.
These narratives are compelling not because they sell products, but because they share values and inspire
action.
Patagonia's Don't Buy This Jacket campaign is a prime example.
It urged consumers to consider the environmental impact of their purchases, challenging the very paradigm
of consumerism on which the fashion industry is built.
The effectiveness of Patagonia's storytelling lies in its authenticity.
Consumers today are more discerning than ever, seeking brands that are genuine in their commitments.
Patagonia's transparent approach to discussing its supply chain, its environmental footprint, and
its efforts to improve is a testament to its authenticity.
This transparency builds trust and loyalty among its customers who see their purchases not just as transactions,
but as contributions to a cause they believe in.
Moreover, Patagonia's engagement with its community through documentaries, environmental initiatives,
and grassroots activism further amplifies its message by empowering its customers to participate in
environmental advocacy.
Patagonia extends its impact beyond the realm of retail, fostering a sense of collective purpose and
action.
In conclusion, Patagonia's success in purpose driven storytelling underscores the power of aligning
brand values with customer values.
It demonstrates that when a brand stands for something bigger than its products, it can inspire loyalty,
drive change, and make a lasting impact on the world.
As storytellers and communicators, there is much we can learn from Patagonia's approach the importance
of authenticity, the power of shared values, and the potential of storytelling to inspire action.

--- Storytelling for Virtual Teams: Keeping Remote Audiences Engaged ---

In today's interconnected world, the art of storytelling has transcended traditional boundaries, becoming
an essential skill for engaging virtual teams across the globe.
As we delve into the realm of remote communication, it's crucial to understand how to captivate and
maintain the attention of your audience, no matter where they are.
The key lies in leveraging the power of narrative to foster a sense of community, connection and collaboration
among team members who may never meet face to face.
At the heart of effective virtual storytelling is the understanding of your audience.
Remote teams come with their own set of challenges, including diverse cultural backgrounds, time zones,
and communication styles.
Tailoring your story to resonate with this varied audience means going beyond the basic message to weave
in elements that speak to their unique experiences and perspectives.
This approach not only captures their attention, but also builds a bridge of empathy and understanding
across the digital divide.
Engagement is another critical component of storytelling for virtual teams.
In a world where distractions are just a click away, keeping your audience invested in your narrative
requires a blend of creativity, clarity, and interactivity.
Utilize dynamic visuals, compelling narratives, and interactive elements such as polls or Q&amp;A sessions,
to transform passive listeners into active participants.
These strategies not only make your story more relatable, but also encourage a two way dialogue that
enriches the experience for everyone involved.
Moreover, the technology we choose to convey our stories plays a pivotal role in how effectively they
are received.
From video conferencing tools to collaborative platforms, selecting the right medium can enhance the
storytelling experience, making it more immersive and accessible.
It's not just about the content, but how you deliver it.
Integrating multimedia elements such as videos or infographics can add depth to your narrative, making
complex ideas more understandable and engaging.
In conclusion, storytelling for virtual teams is an art that requires a deep understanding of your
audience, a commitment to engagement, and a thoughtful choice of technology.
By mastering these elements, you can transform your stories into powerful tools for connection, collaboration,
and community building in the digital age.
As we look to the future, the ability to tell compelling stories that bridge the gap between the physical
and virtual worlds will not only be a valuable skill, but a critical one for success in our increasingly
remote and diverse workplaces.

--- Adapting Leadership Narratives for Hybrid and Remote Workforces ---

In today's rapidly evolving workplace, adapting leadership narratives for hybrid and remote workforces
has become more critical than ever.
The shift towards remote work has not just been a technological change, but a cultural one that requires
a new approach to leadership and communication.
Let's delve into how leaders can effectively adapt their narratives to inspire, guide and connect with
their teams irrespective of physical locations.
The essence of leadership in a hybrid or remote setting lies in trust, transparency, and the ability
to foster a sense of belonging among team members.
It begins with acknowledging the unique challenges and opportunities that remote work presents.
Unlike traditional office environments, remote work can lead to feelings of isolation and disconnection.
Leaders must therefore craft narratives that bridge these gaps and build a cohesive team culture.
One effective strategy is the use of storytelling to share visions, goals, and values.
A well-told story can resonate with team members, making abstract goals feel tangible and achievable.
Leaders should share stories of challenges, overcome lessons learned and milestones achieved, making
sure these narratives highlight the contributions of various team members, celebrating successes as
a collective achievement.
Moreover, communication in a hybrid or remote workforce should be intentional and inclusive.
Leaders must ensure that their narratives are not just transmitted through emails or messages, but
are part of regular, meaningful conversations.
Video calls, virtual team meetings and one on one check ins can help in delivering these narratives
more personally and effectively.
It's about creating moments of connection that reinforce team identity and purpose.
Transparency is another cornerstone of effective leadership in a remote setting.
Leaders should be open about the state of the business, upcoming changes, and the rationale behind
decisions.
This openness fosters trust and shows team members that they are valued and trusted partners in the
organization's journey.
In addition to transparency, empathy plays a crucial role.
Understanding and acknowledging the diverse circumstances and challenges that team members may face,
working remotely is vital.
Leaders should tailor their narratives to not only address work related goals and expectations, but
also to express genuine care and support for their teams wellbeing.
Lastly, adapting leadership narratives for a remote workforce involves continuous learning and evolution.
Leaders should seek feedback on their communication strategies and be willing to adjust based on what
they learn.
It's about creating a dynamic and responsive narrative that evolves with the team and the broader organizational
context.
In conclusion, the transition to hybrid and remote workforces demands a reimagining of leadership narratives
by focusing on trust, transparency, inclusivity, and empathy.
Leaders can craft narratives that resonate deeply with their teams, fostering a strong, connected,
and motivated workforce.
Embracing these strategies will not only help in navigating the challenges of remote work, but will
also unlock new levels of engagement, productivity and innovation within teams.

--- How Digital Storytelling Shapes Company Culture in a Remote World ---

In today's lesson, we delve into the transformative power of digital storytelling and its pivotal role
in shaping company culture, especially in a world where remote work has become the norm.
Digital storytelling, at its core, is the practice of using digital tools and platforms to tell your
brand's stories.
It's not just about the content, but how it's shared, the emotions it evokes, and the connections
it fosters among employees scattered across the globe.
The essence of digital storytelling in a remote work environment lies in its ability to bridge the physical
gap.
It creates a shared space for employees to connect, share, and understand the company's values, mission,
and vision on a deeper level.
For instance, companies like Zapier and Buffer have leveraged digital storytelling to maintain and
strengthen their company culture.
They share success stories, challenges, and behind the scenes glimpses into their operations, making
every team member feel involved and valued regardless of their location.
Moreover, digital storytelling empowers employees.
It gives them a voice, allowing them to share their experiences, insights, and ideas.
This democratization of storytelling within the company not only boosts morale, but also fosters a
sense of belonging and community.
It's about making every employee feel like an integral part of the company's narrative, contributing
to a culture of inclusivity and collaboration.
The impact of digital storytelling extends beyond internal communications.
It also shapes how the company is perceived externally.
A strong, vibrant company culture visible through authentic stories attracts talent and builds trust
with customers and partners.
It's a testament to the company's values in action, showcasing its commitment to not just achieving
business goals, but also to creating a positive work environment.
In conclusion, digital storytelling is not just a tool for marketing or external communications.
It's a strategic asset in building and nurturing company culture, particularly in a remote or hybrid
work setting.
By embracing digital storytelling, companies can create a sense of unity, purpose, and engagement
among their employees, laying the foundation for a resilient and adaptive organizational culture as
we move forward.
The ability to tell compelling stories digitally will become increasingly important in attracting talent,
retaining employees, and building a brand that resonates with both internal and external audiences.

--- The Future of Team Communication: Merging Storytelling and Collaboration ---

In today's lesson, we're diving into the transformative power of storytelling in team communication,
particularly as we navigate the complexities of modern collaboration.
The landscape of workplace communication has undergone a seismic shift, with storytelling emerging
as a pivotal strategy in fostering engagement, understanding and unity within teams.
As we stand on the brink of 2025, it's clear that the future of team communication lies in the seamless
integration of storytelling techniques with collaborative technologies.
At the heart of effective team communication is the ability to convey ideas, emotions, and objectives
in a manner that resonates deeply with each team member.
Storytelling, with its roots in the most ancient forms of communication, offers a powerful tool for
achieving this.
It transcends the mere exchange of information, enabling leaders and team members alike to connect
on a more personal and emotional level.
This connection is crucial in today's diverse and often remote work environments, where the physical
distance between team members can create barriers to traditional forms of communication.
The rise of digital collaboration platforms has opened new avenues for storytelling within teams.
These tools not only facilitate the exchange of ideas, but also provide a canvas for shared narratives.
For instance, a project management tool can be more than just a place to track tasks and deadlines.
It can serve as a storyboard for the project's journey, highlighting challenges, triumphs, and the
collective efforts of the team.
Similarly, video conferencing platforms offer a stage for storytelling, allowing team members to share
experiences, insights, and visions in a more engaging and impactful way.
However, the integration of storytelling and technology in team communication is not without its challenges.
The digital medium can sometimes dilute the personal touch that is essential to effective storytelling.
To overcome this, it's crucial to emphasize authenticity and empathy in every story shared within the
team.
This means being mindful of the diverse backgrounds and perspectives that team members bring to the
table, and tailoring stories in a way that is inclusive and resonant with the entire team.
Looking ahead, the future of team communication will likely see an even greater fusion of storytelling
and technology.
Emerging technologies such as augmented reality, AR and virtual reality VR hold the promise of creating
immersive storytelling experiences that can further enhance team cohesion and empathy.
Imagine a team meeting conducted in a virtual environment that simulates the project's impact on the
real world, or an AR application that brings to life the stories behind the team's work.
Adding a new dimension to the way team members connect and collaborate.
In conclusion, as we move towards 2025 and beyond, the role of storytelling in team communication
will only grow in importance.
By harnessing the power of storytelling and leveraging the capabilities of collaborative technologies,
teams can achieve a level of engagement, understanding, and unity that is essential for success in
the rapidly evolving business landscape.
The future of team communication is not just about sharing information, it's about creating shared
narratives that inspire, motivate, and drive teams towards their common goals.

--- Case Study: How Microsoft and Slack Use Storytelling to Unite Remote Teams ---

In today's session, we dive into the fascinating world of how major corporations like Microsoft and
Slack leverage the power of storytelling to unite and motivate their remote teams.
As we navigate through this era of digital transformation, the art of storytelling has emerged as a
crucial tool for fostering a sense of community and shared purpose among dispersed teams.
Let's start with Microsoft.
At the heart of Microsoft's approach is the belief that storytelling is not just about sharing information,
but about building connections.
When Satya Nadella took over as CEO, he emphasized a culture shift from know it all to learn it all.
Using story.
Using stories.
To instill this mindset across the organization, Microsoft's leaders regularly share stories of personal
failure, learning, and resilience, making it clear that it's okay to take risks and make mistakes.
This narrative fosters a culture of innovation and collaboration, encouraging remote teams to work
together towards common goals.
Now turning our attention to slack.
Slack.
The communication platform has always been about more than just sending messages.
It's about creating a space where teams can collaborate seamlessly, regardless of their physical location.
Slack uses storytelling to highlight how its features can solve real world problems.
Sharing success stories of how teams across the globe have used the platform to stay connected and productive.
Through these narratives, slack demonstrates the potential of its platform to create a virtual workspace
that feels as collaborative and connected as a physical office.
Both Microsoft and Slack understand that in the digital age, storytelling is a powerful tool for creating
an emotional connection with their employees.
By sharing stories that resonate with their teams, they can foster a sense of belonging and commitment
that transcends physical boundaries.
These stories not only communicate the company's values and vision, but also serve as a rallying point
that unites remote teams under a shared purpose.
In conclusion, the use of storytelling by Microsoft and Slack offers valuable lessons for any organization
looking to strengthen its remote team dynamics.
By embracing storytelling, companies can create a strong sense of community and purpose, making remote
work not just a necessity, but a valuable and enriching experience.
As we look to the future, it's clear that storytelling will continue to play a pivotal role in shaping
the culture and success of remote teams worldwide.

--- Why the Best Business Stories Put Customers at the Center of the Narrative ---

Why do stories with customers at their heart resonate more deeply and drive business success?
Today, we delve into the art of customer centric storytelling, a powerful tool that shifts the narrative
focus from products to people, creating more engaging and impactful connections in the realm of business.
Stories have the power to transform abstract concepts into relatable experiences.
When a business places its customers at the center of its stories, it taps into the emotional and personal
aspects that drive decision making.
This approach not only humanizes the brand, but also builds trust and loyalty by showing consumers
that their needs and experiences are understood and valued.
Consider the success of companies like Apple and Airbnb.
Apple's marketing campaigns, for example, rarely focus solely on the specifications of their products.
Instead, they showcase how their devices enhance people's lives, fostering creativity, productivity,
and connection.
Similarly, Airbnb's stories often feature hosts and travelers, highlighting unique experiences and
personal connections made through their platform.
These narratives resonate because they reflect real life experiences and aspirations, making the brand
more relatable and desirable.
Customer centric storytelling also involves listening to and incorporating customer feedback into the
narrative.
This not only improves the products and services offered, but also strengthens the relationship between
the brand and its audience.
By actively engaging with their customers, businesses can create a sense of community and belonging,
further enhancing loyalty and advocacy.
Moreover, in an era dominated by digital media, customer stories can be shared and amplified across
social platforms, reaching a wider audience and generating organic engagement.
User generated content such as reviews, testimonials, and social media posts can be powerful endorsements,
providing social proof and influencing potential customers.
In conclusion, placing customers at the center of your narrative is not just a storytelling strategy.
It's a business strategy that can lead to deeper connections, enhanced loyalty, and ultimately greater
success.
By focusing on the human element, businesses can create stories that are not only compelling but also
resonate on a personal level, driving engagement and fostering a strong, loyal community.
Embracing customer centric storytelling is a powerful way to differentiate your brand and connect with
your audience in a meaningful way.

--- Top 5 Ways to Create Relatable and Impactful Customer Success Stories ---

In today's lesson, we're diving into the art of crafting relatable and impactful customer success stories.
These narratives are not just testimonials.
They are powerful tools to connect with your audience on an emotional level, demonstrating the real
world value of your products or services.
Let's start by understanding why customer success stories are so effective.
At their core, these stories showcase the journey of a customer who overcame challenges and achieved
their goals using your solution.
This not only highlights the practical benefits of your offering, but also builds trust with potential
customers by showing real life applications.
One of the first steps in creating compelling success stories is to select the right customer experiences
to share.
Look for stories that not only demonstrate the value of your product or service, but also resonate
with your target audience's aspirations and pain points.
This alignment ensures that your narrative speaks directly to the needs and desires of your prospective
customers, making your message more persuasive and relatable.
Next, it's crucial to focus on storytelling elements that evoke emotions and build a connection.
Use a narrative structure that includes a clear beginning where you introduce the customer and their
initial challenges.
A middle detailing the journey towards a solution and an end.
Celebrating the achievements and transformed state thanks to your product or service.
This structure helps your audience empathize with the customer's journey, making the success story
more engaging and memorable.
Incorporating specific, measurable results into your success stories adds another layer of impact.
Quantifiable achievements such as time saved, revenue increased, or productivity boosted provide concrete
evidence of your solution's value.
These details help potential customers visualize the tangible benefits they can expect, making your
offering more appealing.
Lastly, authenticity plays a critical role in the effectiveness of customer success stories.
Avoid overstating results or fabricating elements of the story.
Genuine narratives not only ensure credibility, but also foster a deeper connection with your audience.
Real stories about real people facing real challenges and achieving real results are far more compelling
than any polished, perfect scenario could ever be.
In conclusion, mastering the art of crafting relatable and impactful customer success stories is essential
for connecting with your audience on a deeper level.
By selecting resonant experiences, focusing on emotional storytelling, highlighting measurable results,
and maintaining authenticity, you can create narratives that not only showcase the value of your offerings,
but also build trust and inspire action among potential customers.
Remember, a well-told success story has the power to transform interest into conviction, turning prospects
into loyal customers.

--- How to Use Data Storytelling to Influence Consumer Decisions ---

In today's digital age, the power of storytelling has transcended traditional mediums, finding a new
and impactful home in data.
As we delve into how data storytelling can influence consumer decisions, it's essential to understand
that at the heart of every data point lies a story waiting to be told.
Data storytelling combines the science of data analytics with the art of narrative, presenting data
in a way that is both engaging and informative.
This unique blend allows businesses to communicate complex information succinctly and persuasively,
driving consumer decisions in unprecedented ways.
Let's consider the case of a leading e-commerce platform that leveraged data storytelling to boost its
customer retention rates.
By analyzing customer purchase histories, the platform identified patterns and preferences that were
previously unnoticed.
Instead of presenting this data in complex charts and graphs, the company crafted compelling stories
around these patterns, highlighting how they could meet the customer's needs more effectively.
This approach not only made the data more relatable, but also showcased the company's commitment to
understanding and serving its customers better.
Moreover, data storytelling is not just about presenting data, it's about making it resonate with
your audience.
For instance, when a health and wellness app wanted to encourage more users to adopt a healthier lifestyle,
it turned to data storytelling.
The app collected anonymized data on user activities and progress, and shared success stories of how
users improved their health metrics.
By framing these achievements within the user's personal journeys, the app motivated others to set
and reach their health goals, demonstrating the impact of lifestyle changes on overall well-being.
Another key aspect of data storytelling is its ability to highlight trends and insights that can drive
strategic business decisions.
A consumer electronics company, for example, used data storytelling to unveil emerging trends in technology
adoption among different demographics.
By narrating the data in a way that highlighted the growing demand for smart home devices among millennials,
the company was able to redirect its marketing strategies to tap into this lucrative market segment
more effectively.
In conclusion, data storytelling is a potent tool that bridges the gap between raw data and meaningful
insights.
It transforms numbers into narratives, making complex information accessible and engaging.
By leveraging the power of data storytelling, businesses can influence consumer decisions, drive strategic
initiatives, and foster a deeper connection with their audience.
As we move forward, the ability to tell compelling stories with data will become an increasingly valuable
skill, shaping the future of communication, marketing, and decision making.

--- Emotional Storytelling vs. Data-Driven Narratives: Which Works Best? ---

In today's lesson, we delve into the compelling world of storytelling, comparing the emotional resonance
of narrative driven content with the persuasive power of data driven narratives.
At the heart of effective communication lies the storytellers ability to connect with their audience.
But the question arises which method, emotional or data driven, achieves this connection most effectively?
Emotional storytelling taps into the universal human experience, leveraging feelings of joy, sadness,
fear, and hope to create a bond between the storyteller and the audience.
This approach is grounded in the belief that people are more likely to remember and be moved by stories
that evoke a strong emotional response.
For instance, consider a campaign highlighting the plight of endangered animals.
The narrative might focus on the journey of a single animal, drawing the audience into a story of survival
and resilience.
This method relies on the power of empathy, inviting the audience to see themselves in the story and
thus fostering a deeper connection.
On the other hand, data driven narratives anchor the story in evidence and facts appealing to the audience's
rational side.
This method is particularly effective in contexts where credibility and detailed understanding are paramount.
Take, for example, a presentation on climate change.
By presenting data on rising global temperatures, melting ice caps, and the increase in extreme weather
events, the storyteller can construct a compelling argument for the urgent need for action.
Data driven narratives offer a clear, logical path to a conclusion, persuading the audience through
the undeniable power of facts.
Both approaches have their merits, but the most powerful narratives often weave together elements of
both.
A story that combines emotional appeal with solid data strikes a balance, engaging the audience's heart
and mind.
This hybrid approach can be seen in successful public health campaigns, where personal stories of affected
individuals are supported by statistics on disease prevalence and prevention efficacy.
By marrying emotional storytelling with data driven narratives, communicators can enhance their messages
impact, making it more memorable and persuasive.
In conclusion, the choice between emotional storytelling and data driven narratives is not an either
or proposition.
The most effective communicators understand the strengths of each approach and skillfully blend them
to connect with their audience on multiple levels.
Whether through the power of a personal journey or the persuasive force of facts and figures, the art
of storytelling remains a vital tool for anyone looking to influence, educate, or inspire.

--- Case Study: How Apple and Tesla Use Customer-Driven Stories to Sell ---

Today, we're diving into a fascinating exploration of how two tech giants, Apple and Tesla, have
mastered the art of customer driven storytelling to captivate and sell.
It's a journey through the landscape of modern marketing, where the narrative is king and the customer
is the central character.
At the heart of Apple's strategy lies its unparalleled ability to craft stories that resonate on a personal
level with its audience.
Apple doesn't just sell products, it sells experiences, dreams, and a part of a lifestyle.
When introducing a new iPhone, Apple meticulously details its features in a way that highlights how
it makes the user's life better, easier, or more fun.
It's not about the specifications, it's about the experience.
The narrative is always framed around the user, making each customer feel like the hero in their own
story.
With Apple's products as their trusted sidekick, Tesla, on the other hand, takes a slightly different
yet equally effective approach to storytelling.
Tesla's narrative is deeply rooted in the vision of a sustainable future, with each customer playing
a vital role in this grand vision.
When you buy a Tesla, you're not just purchasing a car, you're investing in a future where clean energy
powers our world.
Tesla's stories often highlight innovation, pushing the boundaries of what's possible and making history.
This approach doesn't just sell cars, It sells a movement and customers are invited to be part of this
transformative journey.
Both companies leverage their narratives to create a sense of belonging and purpose, making their customers
feel like they are part of something bigger than themselves.
This emotional connection is the secret sauce to their storytelling success.
It transforms customers into loyal advocates eager to share their own stories of how Apple's innovations
or Tesla's vision has impacted their lives.
In dissecting these strategies, we uncover the power of storytelling in modern marketing.
It's not just about the features of a product or the specifications of a car, it's about how those
products fit into the larger narrative of the customer's life or aspirations.
Apple and Tesla have mastered this art, weaving their products into the fabric of their customers identities
and values.
In conclusion, the key takeaway from Apple and Tesla's success is the profound impact of customer driven
storytelling by placing the customer at the heart of every story.
These companies have not only revolutionized how products are marketed, but have also built powerful
brands that command loyalty and admiration.
As we look to the future, the lesson is clear the brands that can tell the most compelling stories
with the customer as the hero will lead the way in capturing hearts, minds and markets.

--- How Storytelling Styles Differ Across Eastern and Western Business Cultures ---

In today's lesson, we delve into the fascinating world of storytelling across different business cultures,
focusing on the distinct approaches between Eastern and Western traditions.
Understanding these differences is crucial for anyone looking to navigate the global business environment
effectively.
Storytelling, at its core, is a powerful tool for communication capable of bridging gaps and building
connections.
However, the way stories are told and perceived varies significantly across cultures.
In Western business culture, storytelling often emphasizes the individual's journey, highlighting
personal achievements, challenges overcome, and lessons learned.
This style leans towards directness and clarity, with a preference for linear narratives that lead
to a clear conclusion or call to action.
The emphasis is on the individual, showcasing personal expertise, creativity and contribution to the
team's success.
This approach resonates with Western values of individualism and self-expression, making stories a
powerful vehicle for personal branding and leadership.
Contrastingly, eastern business cultures approach storytelling with a collective focus, emphasizing
harmony, community, and the interconnectedness of all participants in the narrative.
Stories in this context often highlight collective achievements, shared values, and the importance
of maintaining balance and harmony within the group.
The narrative style tends to be more indirect, using metaphors and analogies to convey messages and
moral lessons.
This method reflects the eastern values of collectivism, respect for hierarchy, and the significance
of relationships in business dealings.
One notable example of these storytelling differences can be seen in corporate presentations and pitches
in the West.
A pitch might focus on the entrepreneur's personal story, the unique aspects of their product or service,
and the potential for market disruption.
In contrast, an eastern pitch might place more emphasis on how the product or service strengthens community
ties contributes to societal well-being and aligns with long standing traditions or values.
Understanding these cultural nuances and storytelling is not just academic.
It has practical implications for global business strategy for Western businesses looking to expand
into eastern markets, and vice versa.
Adapting storytelling styles can be a critical factor in building trust, respect, and ultimately successful
business relationships.
It's about more than just translating language.
It's about translating meaning and values in a way that resonates with the target audience.
In conclusion, the art of storytelling in business varies greatly between Eastern and Western cultures,
reflecting deeper values and societal norms.
For global leaders and communicators, being aware of and adapting to these differences is key to effective
cross-cultural communication.
By embracing the richness of diverse storytelling traditions, businesses can forge stronger connections
and navigate the global market with greater empathy and understanding.

--- Top 5 Cultural Communication Mistakes That Can Ruin Your Storytelling Impact ---

In the realm of storytelling, cultural nuances play a pivotal role in connecting with your audience
on a profound level.
However, navigating these cultural waters can be fraught with challenges.
Today, we delve into the top five cultural communication mistakes that can significantly diminish the
impact of your storytelling.
Understanding these pitfalls is the first step toward crafting messages that resonate across diverse
audiences.
One of the most common mistakes is assuming a one size fits all approach to storytelling.
Cultural contexts vary greatly, and what works in one culture may not work in another.
For instance, a story that hinges on individual achievement and personal success might inspire audiences
in cultures that value individualism like the United States.
However, this same narrative might not resonate as well in collectivist societies such as Japan, where
community and harmony are more deeply valued.
Recognizing and adapting to these cultural differences is crucial.
Another critical error is neglecting the importance of non-verbal communication.
The power of a story isn't confined to words alone.
Body language, gestures, and even silence carry significant meaning in some cultures, for example,
direct eye contact is seen as a sign of trust and confidence, while in others it may be perceived as
disrespectful or confrontational.
Similarly, gestures that are benign in one culture can be offensive in another.
Being mindful of these nonverbal cues can enhance your storytelling, making it more inclusive and respectful.
Misunderstanding cultural symbols and metaphors also poses a significant challenge.
Symbols, myths and metaphors are the lifeblood of storytelling, imbuing narratives with depth and
resonance.
However, these elements are deeply rooted in cultural heritage and can vary widely from one culture
to another.
A story that employs the phoenix as a metaphor for rebirth and renewal might be powerful in cultures
where this myth is well known, but it could lose its impact in cultures unfamiliar with the Phoenix
legend.
Tailoring your use of symbols and metaphors to align with your audience's cultural background can make
your stories more relatable and impactful.
Overlooking the importance of language nuances is yet another mistake.
Language is a powerful tool in storytelling, but it's also laden with cultural nuances that can alter
the meaning of your message.
Idioms, slang, and colloquial expressions often don't translate well across cultures, potentially
leading to misunderstandings or diluting the power of your narrative.
Choosing simple, clear language and avoiding culturally specific phrases can help ensure that your
story is understood and appreciated by a global audience.
Lastly, failing to consider the cultural context of your audience can undermine your storytelling.
Every culture has its own set of values, beliefs, and taboos.
A story that challenges or disregards these cultural norms can alienate your audience, diminishing
the impact of your message.
It's essential to research and understand the cultural context of your audience before crafting your
story.
This understanding can guide you in creating narratives that are not only respectful, but also deeply
resonant with your audience.
In conclusion, effective storytelling transcends borders and cultures, but achieving this universal
appeal requires a careful navigation of cultural nuances.
By avoiding these five common mistakes, assuming a universal approach, neglecting non-verbal cues,
misunderstanding cultural symbols, overlooking language nuances, and ignoring the cultural context,
you can craft stories that captivate and engage audiences from diverse cultural backgrounds.
Remember, at the heart of powerful storytelling is the ability to connect with your audience on a deep
emotional level, and understanding cultural nuances is key to making that connection.

--- How to Adapt Your Business Story for International and Multilingual Audiences ---

Adapting your business story for international and multilingual audiences is a crucial step in today's
globalized economy.
With the world becoming more interconnected, the ability to communicate your brand's message across
cultures and languages has never been more important.
Let's dive into how you can refine your storytelling to resonate with a diverse audience.
Understanding cultural nuances is the foundation of effective international storytelling.
Each culture has its own set of values, beliefs, and practices that influence how stories are perceived
and understood.
For instance, a narrative that appeals to individual achievement and freedom might resonate well in
Western cultures, but may not hold the same appeal in cultures that value community and collectivism.
Recognizing and respecting these differences is key to crafting stories that connect on a deeper level.
Language, of course, plays a pivotal role.
But it's not just about translating your message, it's about localizing it.
Localization involves adapting your content to reflect the local language, nuances, slang, and idiomatic
expressions, ensuring it feels natural and engaging to the audience.
Consider how Netflix localizes its content for different countries, not just by subtitles or dubbing,
but by altering cultural references, jokes, and even certain scenes to better suit the local audience.
Real world examples of successful adaptation abound.
Take, for example, the global strategy of Coca-Cola.
Their Share a Coke campaign was a hit because it was customized with popular local names in each country.
This personal touch made the global brand feel local and accessible, fostering a deeper connection
with consumers worldwide.
Incorporating visual storytelling can also transcend language barriers.
Visuals, whether images, videos, or infographics, can convey emotions and messages more universally
than text alone.
Remember, however, that imagery is also subject to cultural interpretation.
A gesture or symbol that's positive in one culture might be offensive in another.
Thus, choosing universally positive imagery that aligns with your story's core message is crucial.
Feedback from local audiences is invaluable.
Before launching your story internationally, gather insights from native speakers or cultural consultants.
They can provide feedback on whether your story is resonating as intended or if certain elements might
be misinterpreted.
This feedback loop can be instrumental in refining your story to ensure it's both respectful and effective.
In conclusion, adapting your business story for international and multilingual audiences requires a
deep understanding of cultural nuances, thoughtful language localization, the strategic use of visuals,
and continuous feedback.
By embracing these strategies, you can ensure your story not only reaches but also resonates with a
diverse global audience, driving deeper connections and fostering brand loyalty across borders.

--- Case Study: How Coca-Cola and McDonald’s Use Localized Storytelling to Expand ---

What makes Coca-Cola and McDonald's stand out in the global market.
It's their masterful use of localized storytelling to resonate with diverse audiences worldwide.
Today, we'll dive into how these iconic brands have leveraged cultural nuances to strengthen their
global presence.
Coca-Cola, known for its universal appeal, has adeptly tailored its messaging to reflect local traditions,
values and languages.
For instance, their Share a Coke campaign, which personalized bottles with local names, was a hit
across 70 countries because it spoke directly to individuals in a culturally relevant manner.
This strategy not only boosted sales, but also deepened emotional connections with the brand.
Similarly, McDonald's has excelled in adapting its menu and marketing strategies to match local tastes
and preferences.
In India, the fast food giant introduced the Mcaloo Tikki Burger, a potato based offering that catered
to the country's large vegetarian population.
This product wasn't just a new menu item, it was a statement of McDonald's commitment to understanding
and respecting cultural dietary habits.
The success of such localized products underscores the importance of cultural sensitivity in global
business operations.
Both Coca-Cola and McDonald's understand that storytelling isn't just about conveying a message, it's
about crafting narratives that resonate on a personal level with their audience by incorporating local
languages, symbols, and values into their branding and marketing efforts.
They have managed to maintain a strong global brand identity while also appealing to local markets.
This approach has enabled them to not only penetrate new markets, but also sustain their growth and
relevance in a highly competitive landscape.
In essence, the key takeaway from Coca-Cola and McDonald's use of localized storytelling is the power
of cultural adaptation.
For brands looking to expand their global footprint, it's crucial to understand and embrace the cultural
dynamics of their target markets.
This means going beyond translation to a deeper level of localization that touches upon the cultural,
social, and linguistic aspects that shape consumer behavior and preferences.
By doing so, brands can create more meaningful connections, foster loyalty, and ultimately drive
success in the global marketplace.
In conclusion, the success stories of Coca-Cola and McDonald's serve as compelling case studies for
any brand aspiring to make a mark on the world stage.
The lesson here is clear in the age of globalization, localized storytelling is not just an option.
It's a necessity for connecting with audiences in a way that is both authentic and impactful.

--- The Future of Cross-Cultural Business Storytelling in a Globalized World ---

In today's interconnected world, the art of storytelling transcends geographical boundaries, making
cross-cultural business storytelling a crucial skill for global leaders.
Understanding and harnessing the power of storytelling across different cultures can bridge gaps, foster
connections, and drive international business success.
Let's delve into how you can master this art in our globalized world.
At the heart of effective cross-cultural storytelling lies the understanding of your audience's cultural
background.
Cultural nuances, traditions, and values shape how stories are perceived and interpreted.
For instance, a story that resonates well with an audience in the United States might not have the
same impact in Japan, where cultural contexts differ significantly.
It's not just about translating your story into another language, but adapting its essence to fit the
cultural expectations and emotional triggers of your audience.
One real world example of successful cross-cultural storytelling comes from global brands that tailor
their marketing narratives to fit local cultures.
Take, for example, McDonald's.
The fast food giant adapts its menu and marketing strategies to align with local tastes and preferences.
In India, where a significant portion of the population is vegetarian, McDonald's introduced the Mcaloo
tikki, a spiced potato burger connecting with the local culture through both product and story.
Another key aspect is the choice of platforms and mediums for your storytelling.
Digital platforms have made it easier to reach a global audience, but the choice of platform can vary
widely by region.
While Facebook and Twitter may be popular in many Western countries, platforms like WeChat in China
or Line in Japan dominate.
Understanding where your audience spends their time and tailoring your digital storytelling efforts
to these platforms can significantly increase your reach and impact.
As the language of your story also plays a pivotal role.
While English is often considered the lingua franca of business, not all nuances and emotions translate
well across cultures.
Working with local storytellers or translators who can convey the essence of your message while making
it culturally relevant can make a difference.
It's not just about the words used, but how they're put together to convey meaning that resonates on
a deeper level with the audience.
ethical.
Storytelling is paramount, especially in a global context.
Stories have the power to influence, inspire, and motivate, but they also carry the responsibility
of being respectful and authentic to the cultures they represent.
Misrepresentation or cultural appropriation can lead to misunderstandings and even backlash, damaging
a brand's reputation on the global stage.
Authenticity, respect and ethical considerations should guide your cross-cultural storytelling efforts,
ensuring that stories build bridges rather than walls.
In conclusion, mastering cross-cultural business storytelling in a globalized world is not just about
crafting compelling narratives, but about deeply understanding and respecting the cultural nuances
of your global audience by adapting your stories to align with local cultures.
Choosing the right platforms, working with local storytellers, and prioritizing ethical storytelling,
you can connect with audiences worldwide in a meaningful and impactful way.
This approach not only enhances global business success, but also fosters a deeper sense of connection
and understanding across cultures, paving the way for a more interconnected and empathetic world.

--- Using Micro-Storytelling to Hold Attention in Short-Form Presentations ---

In today's fast paced world, the art of storytelling has evolved and with it, the strategies to captivate
and engage audiences.
Micro storytelling, a technique designed for short form presentations, stands out as a powerful tool
to grasp and hold attention within a limited time frame.
This lesson delves into the essence of micro storytelling, its significance, and how to master it
for impactful communication.
Micro storytelling breaks down complex ideas into concise, compelling narratives.
It's about making every word count.
Leveraging the power of storytelling to convey messages in a brief yet memorable way.
In a world where attention spans are shrinking, this skill is invaluable for anyone looking to make
a lasting impression, whether in marketing, education, or leadership.
The key to effective micro storytelling lies in understanding its core components a clear message,
a captivating story arc, and a strong emotional connection.
The message is the foundation, the main idea you wish to convey.
The story arc, though condensed, must have a beginning, middle and end, guiding the audience through
a journey in a matter of minutes or even seconds.
Lastly, the emotional connection is what makes your story resonate, transforming it from mere words
to a memorable experience.
To illustrate, let's consider a brand that excels in micro storytelling.
Apple.
Apple's marketing campaigns often feature short stories that highlight the human experience, connecting
with viewers on an emotional level.
For instance, their holiday ads don't just showcase products, they tell heartwarming stories of connection,
love, and creativity, all while subtly integrating their devices into these narratives.
This approach not only captures attention, but also fosters a deeper brand loyalty.
Crafting a micro story requires careful selection of details.
Every element, from the characters to the setting, must serve the message.
It's about painting a vivid picture with minimal strokes, choosing words that evoke images, emotions,
and responses.
This precision in storytelling ensures that the audience remains engaged, absorbing the message fully
within the brief window of their attention.
In practice, micro storytelling can be applied across various platforms, from social media posts to
pitch presentations.
The challenge is to distill your message, no matter how complex, into its most potent form.
It's not about dumbing down content, but about elevating it through clarity, brevity, and emotional
impact.
In conclusion, mastering micro storytelling is an essential skill for effective communication in the
digital age.
It allows us to cut through the noise, capture attention, and convey our message in a way that is
both impactful and memorable.
By focusing on the core components of a clear message, a captivating story arc, and a strong emotional
connection, we can leverage the power of storytelling to leave a lasting impression, no matter how
short the format.

--- The Worst 5 Public Speaking Habits That Ruin Your Storytelling Credibility ---

Public speaking is an art, but like any art form, it can be marred by certain habits that detract
from the overall impact of the message.
Today, we delve into the worst five public speaking habits that can ruin your storytelling credibility,
offering insights into how you can avoid these pitfalls and enhance your communication skills.
Starting with the first habit, filler words such as um, like you know and ah can significantly undermine
your authority and distract your audience.
These words creep into our speech when we're nervous or unsure, but they make us appear less confident
and detract from the clarity of our message.
The key to overcoming this habit is practice and awareness.
By recording your speeches and presentations, you can become more conscious of your use of filler words
and work on eliminating them from your speech.
The second habit is a lack of eye contact.
Eye contact is crucial for building a connection with your audience and conveying sincerity and confidence.
Avoiding eye contact can make you seem disinterested or untrustworthy.
To improve, practice making eye contact with individuals in the audience, shifting your gaze every
few seconds to include everyone, which creates a more engaging and personal experience for your listeners.
Next, we have a monotonous voice tone.
A monotone delivery can make even the most exciting and engaging content seem dull and uninteresting.
Varying your pitch, pace and volume keeps the audience engaged and emphasizes the key points of your
message.
Practice using your voice as an instrument, changing its dynamics to match the content of your speech
and the emotions you wish to convey.
The fourth habit is the overuse of jargon or complex language.
While it's important to demonstrate expertise, using overly technical terms or complex language can
alienate your audience, making it hard for them to follow along and stay engaged.
Always consider the background and knowledge level of your audience, and aim to communicate your ideas
clearly and concisely using language that is accessible to everyone.
Lastly, failing to prepare or practice is perhaps the most detrimental habit.
Preparation and practice are the foundations of effective public speaking.
Without them, even the most talented speakers can falter.
Investing time in preparing your content, structuring your message, and rehearsing your delivery can
make a significant difference in your performance and the impact of your speech.
In conclusion, public speaking is a powerful tool for storytelling and influence, but certain habits
can severely impact your credibility and effectiveness.
By being aware of these habits and working to improve them, you can enhance your speaking skills,
connect more deeply with your audience, and deliver your message with confidence and impact.
Remember, the goal is not perfection, but progress and authenticity in your communication.

--- Mastering Nonverbal Storytelling: What Your Body Language Says to Audiences ---

In the realm of effective communication, mastering non-verbal storytelling is as crucial as the words
we choose to speak.
Today, we delve into the nuanced world of body language and its profound impact on audience engagement.
Imagine standing before an eager crowd.
Your posture, gestures, and facial expressions can either captivate or disconnect your audience,
sometimes even before you utter a single word.
Let's explore how.
First, consider the power of eye contact.
It's not just about looking someone in the eyes, it's about creating a connection, conveying confidence,
and demonstrating your interest in the interaction.
Effective eye contact can make your audience feel acknowledged and involved, transforming a monologue
into a dialogue without the need for verbal back and forth.
Next, let's talk about posture.
Standing tall with your shoulders back and head held high isn't just good for your spine, it radiates
confidence and openness.
Conversely, a slouched posture can signal disinterest or lack of confidence, potentially disengaging
your audience.
Your stance speaks volumes before you even begin your story.
Gestures are another potent tool in your non-verbal arsenal.
They can emphasize points, illustrate concepts, and add energy to your delivery.
However, it's crucial to find a balance.
Overuse can be distracting, Acting.
While underuse may make your presentation seem stiff and unengaging.
The key is to use gestures that feel natural and complement your verbal message.
Facial expressions also play a significant role in nonverbal storytelling.
They are the subtitles to your spoken words, providing context and emotion.
A genuine smile can warm an audience, while furrowed brows can convey concern or concentration.
Being mindful of your facial expressions ensures your nonverbal cues match the tone of your story.
Lastly, consider the space around you how you move within.
It can either draw your audience in or create a barrier.
Moving closer to your audience can indicate a desire to share more intimately, while stepping back
might signal a need for reflection or emphasis on a point.
Utilizing the space effectively can make your storytelling more dynamic and engaging.
In conclusion, mastering non-verbal storytelling is about harmonizing your body language with your
verbal narrative.
It's about using eye contact, posture, gestures, facial expressions, and spatial awareness to connect
with your audience on a deeper level.
By being mindful of these nonverbal cues, you can transform your storytelling, making it more engaging,
memorable, and impactful.
Remember, it's not just what you say, but how you say it that leaves a lasting impression.

--- How to Handle Difficult Questions and Challenges in Live Storytelling ---

Handling difficult questions and challenges during live storytelling sessions can be daunting, but
it's a skill that can significantly enhance your effectiveness as a communicator.
Let's dive into strategies that will help you navigate these situations with grace and confidence.
When faced with a challenging question, the first step is to listen carefully and fully understand
the query.
This shows respect for your audience and gives you time to formulate a thoughtful response.
It's also important to maintain a positive demeanor even if the question is critical or confrontational.
A calm and composed response can help defuse tension and keep the focus on the content of your story.
One effective technique is to rephrase the question for clarity.
This not only ensures that you've understood the question correctly, but also gives you additional
time to think about your answer.
If the question is complex or multi-part, breaking it down into manageable pieces can help you address
each part systematically.
Another key strategy is to acknowledge when you don't know the answer.
Honesty builds trust, and it's perfectly acceptable to say that you need to research further before
providing a comprehensive response.
You can offer to follow up after the session, which also provides an opportunity for continued engagement
with your audience.
Incorporating storytelling into your response can also be a powerful way to connect with your audience.
Sharing a relevant story or anecdote can illustrate your point more effectively than a straightforward
answer, making your response more memorable and impactful.
Additionally, using humor, where appropriate, can help lighten the mood and make the interaction
more enjoyable for everyone involved.
It's also beneficial to practice active listening and empathy.
Understanding the perspective behind the question can help you address the underlying concerns of your
audience.
This empathetic approach can turn a challenging question into an opportunity for deeper connection and
engagement.
In conclusion, handling difficult questions and challenges during live storytelling requires preparation,
patience, and presence of mind.
By listening carefully, maintaining composure, and using storytelling techniques, you can turn potential
obstacles into opportunities for meaningful interaction and learning.
Remember, your goal is not just to answer questions, but to engage your audience and enrich their
experience with your storytelling.

--- Case Study: How TED Speakers Use Advanced Storytelling to Command a Room ---

In the world of public speaking and idea sharing, Ted talks have set a new standard for how stories
are told and how speakers connect with their audiences.
Today, we'll delve into the advanced storytelling techniques used by Ted speakers to captivate and
command a room.
These speakers master the art of weaving complex ideas into clear, compelling narratives that resonate
with people from all walks of life.
The first technique to highlight is the power of a strong opening.
Ted speakers often start with a personal anecdote.
A surprising fact or a provocative question.
This isn't just to grab attention, it's to immediately establish a connection with the audience.
For instance, when a speaker shares a personal journey or challenge they've overcome, it not only
humanizes them, but also makes the audience invested in their story from the very beginning.
Another key strategy is the use of visuals and storytelling to simplify complex concepts.
Ted speakers are adept at breaking down intricate ideas into digestible, relatable pieces.
They often use metaphors, analogies, and visuals to help the audience visualize and grasp abstract
or complicated subjects.
This technique not only aids understanding, but also makes the message more memorable.
Storytelling is at the heart of every TEDx talk.
The best speakers know that stories evoke emotions and that emotions drive engagement.
By weaving their message into a narrative, they make their talks not just informative, but also deeply
moving.
This narrative driven approach helps in making complex ideas accessible and in creating a lasting impact
on the audience.
Interactivity, though less common, is another technique that some Ted speakers use effectively.
They might pose questions to the audience, encourage reflection, or even involve the audience in an
activity.
This interactive element keeps the audience engaged, makes the experience more dynamic, and reinforces
the speaker's message.
Finally, every successful Ted talk has a clear, concise message.
Ted speakers are masters at distilling their ideas into a core message that is easy to understand and
remember.
They often conclude their talks by summarizing this message and leaving the audience with a call to
action, encouraging them to think, feel, or act differently based on what they've heard.
In conclusion, Ted speakers command a room by starting strong.
Simplifying complex ideas.
Leveraging the power of storytelling, engaging the audience interactively, and distilling their message
into a memorable takeaway.
These advanced storytelling techniques are not just the domain of Ted speakers.
They can be applied by anyone looking to influence, educate, or inspire an audience.
Whether you're giving a presentation, leading a meeting, or sharing an idea.
Incorporating these strategies can elevate your storytelling and leave a lasting impact on your listeners.

--- How to Use Stories to Overcome Resistance to Organizational Change ---

In today's fast paced world, resistance to organizational change is a common challenge that leaders
face.
But what if I told you that stories could be your most powerful tool in overcoming this resistance?
Let's delve into how the art of storytelling can transform the landscape of organizational change,
making the transition smoother and more accepted by all stakeholders involved.
At the heart of every successful change management strategy lies the ability to communicate effectively.
Stories have the unique ability to connect with people on an emotional level, making the abstract tangible
and the complex simple.
When leaders share compelling narratives about the future benefits of change, they not only provide
a vision but also inspire and motivate their team to embrace the new direction.
Consider the case of a major tech company that introduced a new, innovative software platform to streamline
its operations.
The initial reaction was skepticism and fear of the unknown.
However, by sharing stories of how this platform had transformed other organizations detailing the
specific benefits and improvements it brought, the leadership was able to shift the perception from
fear to excitement.
Employees began to see themselves as part of a groundbreaking journey leading to a smoother transition
and successful implementation.
Moreover, storytelling can also highlight the human side of change.
Sharing personal experiences, challenges overcome, and lessons learned can help in building trust
and empathy, making it easier for employees to relate and see the benefits of change on a personal
level.
It's about showing that change is not just a corporate mandate, but a path to personal and professional
growth.
Furthermore, stories can serve as a powerful tool for envisioning the future.
A well crafted narrative can help individuals imagine the possibilities, breaking down resistance by
replacing uncertainty with clarity and vision.
This is particularly effective in addressing the what's in it for me question, ensuring that the benefits
of change are clearly understood and embraced.
In conclusion, stories are not just a way to entertain.
They are a strategic tool in the arsenal of effective leadership.
By leveraging the power of storytelling, leaders can overcome resistance to organizational change,
fostering an environment of trust, engagement, and excitement for the future.
Remember, the next time you're faced with resistance, don't just present the facts.
Tell a story that brings the change to life, making it irresistible to ignore.

--- The Role of Narrative in Agile Leadership: Adapting to Uncertainty ---

In today's lesson, we're diving into the dynamic world of agile leadership and the pivotal role narrative
plays in navigating through uncertainty.
Agile leadership is not just a buzzword, it's a transformative approach that empowers leaders to adapt
swiftly to changes, foster innovation, and lead with resilience.
At the heart of agile leadership lies the power of narrative.
The stories we tell ourselves and our teams about the challenges we face and the futures we aspire to
create.
Imagine you're leading a team through a period of significant change.
The market is volatile, customer preferences are shifting rapidly, and technological advancements
are reshaping the industry landscape.
In such a scenario, the traditional command and control leadership style falls short.
This is where agile leadership comes into play, emphasizing flexibility, collaboration, and most
importantly, a compelling narrative.
A well crafted narrative serves as a North star, guiding your team through the fog of uncertainty.
It's not just about setting goals or outlining strategies, it's about weaving a story that resonates
with your team's values, aspirations, and fears.
A narrative that acknowledges the challenges ahead but also paints a picture of a hopeful future can
inspire action, foster a sense of belonging, and build resilience.
Let's consider the case of a tech startup navigating the turbulent waters of the digital transformation
era.
The leadership team recognized early on that to thrive in this new landscape, they needed to pivot
their strategy and embrace innovation.
Rather than dictating this change, they crafted a narrative around the theme of pioneering the future
together.
This story wasn't just about the shift in strategy.
It was a call to action for every team member to contribute their unique ideas and strengths towards
a shared vision.
The narrative emphasized the opportunity to lead in innovation, the value of each team member's contribution,
and the collective resilience to overcome obstacles.
This approach not only motivated the team, but also cultivated a culture of agility where change was
not feared but embraced as an opportunity for growth.
The narrative became the glue that held the team together, fostering a shared identity and purpose.
In conclusion, the role of narrative in agile leadership is profound.
It's about crafting stories that not only communicate a vision, but also inspire action, foster resilience,
and build a culture of collaboration and innovation.
As leaders, our challenge is to master the art of storytelling, to navigate through uncertainty with
confidence, and to lead our teams towards a future filled with hope and opportunity.
Remember, the stories we tell today.
Shape the realities we live tomorrow.

--- Top 5 Storytelling Mistakes Leaders Make During Change Initiatives ---

In today's lesson, we're diving into the top five storytelling mistakes leaders often make during change
initiatives.
Change is a constant in the business world, but how leaders communicate during these times can significantly
impact the success or failure of their initiatives.
Let's uncover these common pitfalls and learn how to avoid them.
Firstly, many leaders fall into the trap of overcomplicating their message in an effort to cover all
bases.
They pack too much information into their communications, leaving their audience overwhelmed and confused.
The key is simplicity.
Focus on the core message and why it matters to your audience.
This approach not only makes your message more digestible, but also more memorable.
Another common mistake is failing to connect the change to a larger purpose or vision.
People are naturally resistant to change, but understanding the why behind it can foster acceptance
and enthusiasm.
Leaders need to articulate how the change aligns with the organization's values and long term goals,
creating a narrative that resonates on a personal level with their audience.
Ignoring emotions is another misstep.
Change can evoke a wide range of emotions, from fear and anxiety to excitement.
Leaders who acknowledge and address these emotions head on can navigate their teams through change more
effectively.
It's about showing empathy, validating feelings, and providing reassurance, which in turn builds
trust and loyalty.
The fourth mistake is underestimating the power of storytelling itself.
Stories are a fundamental way humans understand the world.
Yet during change initiatives, leaders often resort to dry factual presentations that fail to engage.
Incorporating real life stories and examples can bring the message to life, making the abstract tangible
and relatable.
Lastly, many leaders neglect to involve their audience in the narrative.
Change shouldn't be a monologue, but a dialogue.
Encouraging feedback, sharing experiences, and even co-creating the change narrative with your team
can lead to more profound engagement and ownership of the change process.
In conclusion, effective storytelling during change initiatives is about simplicity, connection to
a larger purpose, acknowledging emotions, leveraging the power of stories, and involving your audience
in the narrative.
By avoiding these common mistakes, leaders can drive successful change initiatives that not only achieve
their goals but also strengthen their teams.

--- Case Study: How Airbnb and Netflix Used Storytelling to Pivot Successfully ---

In today's lesson, we'll dive into the transformative power of storytelling, focusing on how Airbnb
and Netflix have leveraged this art to pivot and thrive in challenging times.
The essence of storytelling in business isn't just about crafting a narrative, it's about connecting
with audiences on a deeper level, fostering trust, and building a loyal community.
Let's start with Airbnb.
In the face of travel restrictions and a global downturn in tourism, Airbnb shifted its narrative from
global travel to local experiences.
The company launched the Live Anywhere on Airbnb campaign, encouraging people to explore new living
situations and work remotely from different locations.
This pivot wasn't just a change in offerings, but a strategic move in storytelling, focusing on the
possibilities of a new lifestyle, thus resonating with the desires of their audience during the pandemic.
Now, let's turn our attention to Netflix as a pioneer in streaming services.
Netflix has always understood the value of storytelling, not just in its content, but in its brand
narrative during times when the world was locked down.
Netflix positioned itself as a window to the world, offering escape, comfort and connection through
its diverse content library.
The company's narrative focused on the power of stories to bring people together, even when they are
physically apart.
This approach helped Netflix not only retain its subscriber base, but also see a significant increase
in new subscriptions.
Both Airbnb and Netflix demonstrate that storytelling is not static.
It evolves with the audience's needs, market trends, and global events.
By adapting their narratives, these companies have shown resilience and innovation, turning challenges
into opportunities.
They underscore the importance of listening to your audience and being ready to rewrite your story to
align with changing realities.
In conclusion, the art of storytelling is a dynamic and powerful tool for businesses to navigate through
uncertainties and connect with their audiences on a meaningful level.
Airbnb and Netflix exemplify how adaptable and compelling narratives can pave the way for success,
even in the most challenging times.
As we move forward, let's remember the lessons these companies offer.
The right story, told at the right time can not only capture attention, but can also inspire action
and foster a deep, enduring connection.

--- The Science of Persuasion: Why Great Leaders Are Great Storytellers ---

Why do stories have such a profound impact on us?
And how can mastering the art of storytelling transform you into a more persuasive leader?
Today we dive into the fascinating world where psychology meets narrative, uncovering why great leaders
are often exceptional storytellers.
At the heart of every memorable story lies the power to evoke emotions, connect on a human level,
and inspire action.
This emotional connection is not by chance, but by design, leveraging the brain's natural wiring to
seek patterns and meaning in narratives.
When leaders share stories, they're not just transmitting information, they're building relationships,
trust, and credibility.
Consider the impact of storytelling in the context of organizational change.
When leaders articulate a compelling vision of the future through stories, they do more than outline
a strategic direction.
They ignite enthusiasm and commitment, making the abstract tangible and the future attainable.
This narrative driven approach to leadership is not just about persuasion, but about creating a shared
experience that aligns teams and motivates action.
Let's examine the role of storytelling in customer engagement.
In a marketplace cluttered with competing messages, stories that resonate with customers on a personal
level, can cut through the noise and foster loyalty by sharing stories that reflect customer experiences
or aspirations.
Companies can create a powerful emotional resonance, turning customers into advocates and deepening
their connection to the brand.
Now consider the ethical dimension of storytelling.
The best leaders use storytelling not just to influence, but to do so with integrity.
They understand that stories can shape perceptions and values.
Wielding this power responsibly to inspire positive change and uphold organizational values.
Ethical storytelling is about authenticity, aligning narratives with actions, and using stories to
reinforce a culture of honesty and respect.
In conclusion, the science of persuasion through storytelling is both an art and a strategic tool.
Great leaders harness the power of stories to connect, inspire, and lead with integrity.
As we look to the future, the ability to craft and share compelling narratives will remain a cornerstone
of effective leadership, shaping not just individual paths, but the direction of entire organizations.
By mastering the art of storytelling, you can transform your leadership and leave a lasting impact
on your audience, whether it's one person or an entire global community.

--- How to Craft a Sustainable Brand Story That Resonates with Audiences ---

In today's lesson, we'll unravel the art of crafting a sustainable brand story that resonates with
audiences far and wide.
A compelling brand story is not just a narrative about your company.
It's a reflection of your values, mission, and the impact you aim to create in the world.
Let's dive into how you can weave sustainability into your brand's narrative to connect with your audience
on a deeper level.
At the heart of every sustainable brand story is authenticity.
Consumers today are more informed and skeptical than ever before.
They can spot insincerity from miles away.
Therefore, your story must be genuine.
It should reflect real actions your brand is taking towards sustainability, such as reducing waste,
using eco friendly materials or supporting local communities.
Remember, authenticity breeds trust, and trust is the cornerstone of customer loyalty.
Next, let's talk about relatability.
Your brand story should not just speak about your achievements, but also resonate with your audience's
values and aspirations.
For instance, if your brand is committed to reducing plastic waste, share stories of how your products
or initiatives are helping to solve a problem that your audience cares about.
This connection is crucial for building an emotional bond with your audience.
Moreover, consistency is key.
Your sustainable brand story should be coherent across all platforms and points of contact with your
audience, from your website to social media.
Packaging and customer service.
Inconsistency can lead to confusion and skepticism, undermining your brand's credibility.
Therefore, ensure that your sustainability message is clear, consistent, and evident in every aspect
of your brand.
However, it's important to avoid greenwashing at all costs.
Greenwashing is the practice of making misleading claims about the environmental benefits of a product,
service, or brand to appear more environmentally friendly than it really is.
This can severely damage your brand's reputation.
Always back up your claims with facts and be transparent about your sustainability journey, including
the challenges and setbacks.
This honesty will not only enhance your credibility, but also encourage your audience to support you
in your mission.
Incorporating storytelling techniques can also elevate your sustainable brand story.
Use narratives that showcase the impact of your sustainability efforts on real people and communities.
Stories of change, improvement, and positive outcomes can be incredibly powerful in illustrating the
value of your brand's commitment to sustainability.
Lastly, remember that a sustainable brand story is an evolving narrative.
As your brand grows and adapts to new sustainability challenges and opportunities, so should your story.
Keep your audience updated on your progress, learnings, and future plans.
This ongoing dialogue will keep your audience engaged and invested in your brand's journey towards a
more sustainable future.
In conclusion, a sustainable brand story is much more than a marketing tool.
It's a reflection of your brand's heart and soul.
By being authentic, relatable, consistent, transparent, and engaging, you can create a brand story
that not only resonates with your audience, but also inspires action and loyalty.
Remember, in the journey towards sustainability, every story counts and yours has the power to make
a real difference.

--- Authenticity vs. Greenwashing: Avoiding Ethical Storytelling Pitfalls ---

In today's lesson, we'll dive into the critical distinction between authenticity and greenwashing in
storytelling, especially within the context of ethical leadership and corporate responsibility.
As we navigate the complexities of modern business practices, the importance of maintaining authenticity
in our narratives cannot be overstated.
Authentic storytelling is not just a tool for engagement.
It's a foundation for trust and credibility in an increasingly skeptical world.
At the heart of authentic storytelling lies the genuine representation of a brand's values, mission,
and impact on society and the environment.
It's about creating a narrative that resonates on a deeper level with your audience, showing vulnerability
and demonstrating a commitment to real change.
This approach not only fosters a stronger connection with your audience, but also builds a lasting
brand loyalty that transcends the superficial appeal of products or services.
On the flip side, we encounter the phenomenon of greenwashing, a deceptive practice where companies
give a false impression of their environmental efforts or benefits in an era where consumers are more
environmentally conscious.
Some businesses might be tempted to overstate their green initiatives or sustainability credentials.
However, greenwashing can severely damage a brand's reputation once the truth comes to light, leading
to mistrust and skepticism from consumers.
To illustrate the dangers of greenwashing, let's consider a hypothetical case study.
Imagine a company that markets itself as zero waste, yet fails to implement comprehensive waste reduction
practices across its supply chain.
When consumers discover the discrepancy between the company's claims and its actual practices, the
backlash can be swift and severe, resulting in lost sales, diminished brand loyalty, and a tarnished
reputation.
Conversely, let's look at a company that genuinely integrates sustainability into its business model,
from sourcing materials responsibly to implementing fair labor practices and reducing its carbon footprint.
By sharing these efforts transparently and consistently, the company not only strengthens its brand
but also sets a standard for the industry, encouraging others to follow suit.
In conclusion, the contrast between authenticity and greenwashing in storytelling is stark.
Authenticity builds trust, fosters loyalty, and drives positive change, while greenwashing risks
everything a brand has worked hard to build.
As storytellers, leaders, and influencers, it's our responsibility to champion authenticity, ensuring
that our narratives reflect our true values and impact.
By doing so, we not only contribute to a more ethical business landscape, but also inspire others
to join us in making a genuine difference.

--- Top 5 Sustainability-Focused Companies with Powerful Brand Narratives ---

Today we're diving into the world of sustainability, focusing on the top five companies that have seamlessly
woven powerful brand narratives into their commitment to the environment.
These organizations are not just talking the talk, they are walking the walk, setting new standards
for corporate responsibility and storytelling in the process.
Let's start with Patagonia, a brand synonymous with outdoor apparel and a deep commitment to the environment.
Patagonia is dedication to sustainability is not just a part of its marketing strategy, it's the company's
core.
From using recycled materials in their products to donating a percentage of their sales to environmental
causes, Patagonia sets a high bar for what it means to be an eco friendly brand.
Their Don't Buy This Jacket campaign is a prime example, urging consumers to consider the environmental
impact of their purchases.
Next, we turn our attention to Tesla, the electric vehicle manufacturer that has become a household
name.
Tesla's mission to accelerate the world's transition to sustainable energy is more than just words.
Through the development of cutting edge electric vehicles and renewable energy products, Tesla is making
significant strides in reducing the carbon footprint of the automotive industry.
The brand's narrative is compelling, focusing on innovation, performance, and a cleaner planet for
future generations.
Another standout is Ikea, the world's largest furniture retailer known for its affordable flatpack
furniture.
IKEA's commitment to sustainability is evident in its goal to become climate positive by 2030.
This includes efforts to use renewable and recycled materials, improve energy efficiency and reduce
waste.
IKEA's story is one of making sustainable living accessible and affordable, demonstrating that eco
friendly practices can be integrated into everyday life.
Turning our gaze to the tech industry, we find Google, a company that has embedded sustainability
into its operations and products.
Google has been carbon neutral since 2007 and aims to operate on carbon free energy 24 over seven by
2030.
Beyond its operational commitments, Google's products and platforms are designed to help users and
businesses reduce their environmental impact.
Showcasing the potential of technology to drive positive change.
Lastly, we explore the initiatives of Beyond Meat, a company at the forefront of the plant based food
revolution.
Beyond meat's brand narrative centers on the environmental benefits of a diet shift away from animal
products by offering delicious, protein rich alternatives.
Beyond meat challenges perceptions of plant based eating and highlights the role of diet in combating
climate change.
In conclusion, these five companies demonstrate that a strong, sustainability focused brand narrative
is not just good for the planet, it's also a powerful tool for engaging customers and driving business
success.
Each company's approach is unique, yet they all share a commitment to making a positive impact on the
world.
As we look to the future, their stories offer inspiration and a roadmap for integrating sustainability
into the heart of a brand.

--- How to Use Storytelling to Inspire Conscious Consumer Behavior ---

In today's lesson, we delve into the transformative power of storytelling in inspiring conscious consumer
behavior.
The art of storytelling isn't just for entertainment.
It's a strategic tool that businesses can use to connect with their audience on a deeper level, encouraging
thoughtful and sustainable consumption patterns.
Let's explore how at the heart of conscious consumerism is the desire to make purchasing decisions that
have a positive impact on society and the environment.
This shift towards mindful consumption presents a unique opportunity for brands to align their narratives
with the values of their customers, by weaving sustainability and ethical practices into their stories.
Companies can not only enhance their brand image, but also drive meaningful change.
One compelling example of this strategy in action is the approach taken by Patagonia, an outdoor clothing
brand.
Patagonia's commitment to environmental conservation is evident in their marketing campaigns, which
often highlight their efforts to reduce waste and promote recycling.
Through storytelling, they've managed to cultivate a loyal customer base that shares their values,
proving that authenticity can be a powerful motivator in consumer behaviour.
Furthermore, storytelling can be leveraged to create an emotional connection with the audience.
When consumers hear stories about the positive impact of their purchases, such as supporting local
communities or protecting endangered species, they're more likely to make thoughtful choices.
This emotional engagement is crucial in transforming passive buyers into active participants in the
conscious consumerism movement.
Digital platforms have amplified the reach and impact of storytelling, enabling brands to share their
narratives with a global audience.
Social media, blogs, and video content are just a few of the channels through which companies can
communicate their commitment to sustainability and ethics by engaging with consumers through these platforms,
brands can foster a sense of community and collaboration in addressing global challenges.
However, it's important for businesses to ensure that their stories are not only compelling but also
authentic.
Greenwashing, or the practice of making misleading claims about a product's environmental benefits,
can erode trust and damage a brand's reputation.
Transparency and storytelling is therefore key to building and maintaining consumer trust.
In conclusion, storytelling is a potent tool for inspiring conscious consumer behaviour.
By sharing authentic narratives that resonate with their values, brands can motivate consumers to make
purchases that contribute to a more sustainable and equitable world.
As we move forward, the stories we tell and the actions we take can shape the future of consumption,
steering it towards a path that benefits both people and the planet.
Embracing the power of storytelling is not just good for business.
It's essential for building a better world.

--- Case Study: How Unilever and Patagonia Use Storytelling for Impact ---

Today, we delve into the compelling world of storytelling for impact, focusing on how two industry
giants, Unilever and Patagonia, leveraged this powerful tool to drive sustainability and ethical business
practices.
Both companies have harnessed the art of storytelling not just to sell products, but to advocate for
a better world.
Let's uncover the strategies behind their success and how they've set new standards for corporate responsibility.
Unilever, a global leader in consumer goods, has long championed the cause of sustainable living.
Their storytelling doesn't just highlight product benefits, it weaves narratives around the positive
environmental and social impacts of their brands.
For instance, Dove's Real Beauty campaign challenges beauty stereotypes promoting self-esteem among
women and girls.
This approach transforms traditional advertising into a platform for social change, engaging consumers
on a deeper level and building brand loyalty rooted in shared values.
Patagonia, on the other hand, takes an even more direct stance on environmental activism.
Their infamous Don't Buy This Jacket campaign, urging consumers to reconsider their purchasing habits
to save resources, is a prime example of counterintuitive storytelling.
Patagonia's stories often spotlight their products durability, and the company's commitment to repair
and recycle.
Reinforcing the message that quality and environmental stewardship can go hand in hand.
Through documentaries, social media and their website, Patagonia shares tales of outdoor adventures
that respect and preserve the natural world, inspiring their community to act in kind.
Both Unilever and Patagonia demonstrate that storytelling can be a formidable force for change.
By aligning their narratives with their core values, they not only enhance their brand image, but
also contribute to a larger movement toward sustainability and ethical business practices.
Their success underscores the importance of authenticity in today's skeptical world.
Consumers crave genuine stories that resonate with their own beliefs and aspirations.
In summary, the strategic use of storytelling by Unilever and Patagonia offers valuable lessons for
any organization looking to make an impact.
These companies show that when stories are crafted with sincerity and purpose, they can transcend traditional
marketing, fostering a deep connection with audiences and driving meaningful change.
As we move forward, let's consider how we can apply these insights to our own storytelling efforts
whether to promote a cause, build a brand, or inspire action towards a better future.

--- The Role of Emotional Intelligence in Crafting Powerful Business Stories ---

In today's lesson, we delve into the profound impact of emotional intelligence on crafting compelling
business narratives.
Emotional intelligence, or EQ, is the ability to understand, use, and manage our own emotions in
positive ways to relieve stress, communicate effectively, empathize with others, overcome challenges,
and defuse conflict.
In the realm of business storytelling, EQ becomes a pivotal tool in connecting with your audience on
a deeper level, enabling your stories to resonate and inspire action.
Let's start by understanding why emotional intelligence is so crucial in business communication.
Emotional intelligence allows storytellers to gauge the emotional state of their audience, adapting
their message to resonate with their feelings and perspectives.
This connection is not just about empathy, it's about authenticity and vulnerability.
When leaders share stories that include their own failures, learnings, and moments of uncertainty,
it humanizes them, making their messages more relatable and impactful.
Consider the case of a CEO addressing their company during challenging times.
By employing emotional intelligence, the CEO can craft a narrative that acknowledges the team's fears,
highlights collective strengths, and motivates through a vision of shared success.
This approach not only boosts morale, but also fosters a culture of openness and resilience.
Furthermore, emotional intelligence and storytelling helps in navigating cultural differences within
global teams.
By being aware of and sensitive to the diverse emotional landscapes of a multinational audience, a
storyteller can tailor messages that cross cultural boundaries, promoting inclusivity and understanding.
In crafting stories with high EQ, it's essential to listen actively to your audience, whether through
direct feedback or by reading nonverbal cues.
This feedback loop allows for dynamic storytelling that evolves and adapts, ensuring your message is
always relevant and engaging.
To enhance your emotional intelligence in storytelling, start by practicing self-awareness.
Reflect on your emotions and how they influence your communication style.
Next, develop your social awareness by observing and learning from the emotional cues of those around
you.
And finally, apply these insights to your storytelling, making your narratives more empathetic and
impactful.
In conclusion, integrating emotional intelligence into business storytelling is not just a skill,
but a strategic asset.
It enables leaders and communicators to forge deeper connections, inspire trust, and drive meaningful
action.
By understanding and leveraging the power of emotions, your stories can become a catalyst for change
and a beacon of inspiration in the business world.

--- How Empathy-Driven Storytelling Builds Trust and Loyalty with Audiences ---

In today's world, where information is abundant and attention spans are short, the art of storytelling
has never been more critical, especially when it's driven by empathy.
Empathy driven storytelling is not just about sharing a narrative, it's about connecting with your
audience on a deep emotional level, building trust and fostering loyalty.
But how can we achieve this?
Let's dive into the nuances of crafting stories that resonate on a human level.
At the heart of empathy driven storytelling is the ability to to put ourselves in someone else's shoes.
It's about understanding their feelings, challenges, and aspirations as if they were our own.
This approach doesn't just humanize the narrative, it makes it relatable, creating a powerful emotional
bridge between the storyteller and the audience.
Consider, for instance, a brand that shares customer success stories, not just focusing on the product,
but on the customer's journey, challenges and how they overcame them.
This method transforms a simple product pitch into a relatable story, making the brand more memorable
and trustworthy.
Moreover, the power of vulnerability in storytelling cannot be overstated.
When storytellers share their own failures, fears, and lessons learned, it breaks down barriers,
making the narrative more accessible and authentic.
This vulnerability is a key ingredient in building trust, as it shows the audience that it's okay to
be imperfect.
Fostering a stronger connection and encouraging engagement.
But empathy driven storytelling isn't just about the content, it's also about delivery.
The tone, pace, and language used play a crucial role in how the story is perceived and how effectively
it connects with the audience.
A story told with genuine passion and sincerity can captivate an audience, making the message more
impactful.
Let's not forget the role of visuals and multimedia in enhancing empathy driven narratives in an age
dominated by digital media, leveraging images, videos and interactive content can amplify the emotional
quotient of a story, making it more engaging and memorable.
For example, a documentary style video that showcases real life stories of people impacted by a social
issue can evoke stronger emotions and drive action more effectively than a text based appeal.
In conclusion, empathy driven storytelling is a powerful tool in building trust and loyalty with audiences.
By focusing on relatable, human centered narratives, embracing vulnerability, and delivering stories
with sincerity, storytellers can create a lasting impact.
Whether it's a brand story, a social campaign, or a personal narrative, the principles of empathy
driven storytelling can transform how we connect with our audience, making every story not just heard,
but felt.
As we move forward, let's harness the power of empathy to create stories that resonate, inspire and
bring us closer together.

--- Top 5 Emotional Triggers That Make a Story More Compelling ---

What makes a story truly unforgettable.
Today we dive into the heart of storytelling, uncovering the top five emotional triggers that transform
a narrative from simple to compelling.
Understanding these triggers can elevate our stories, connecting deeply with our audience's emotions
and leaving a lasting impact.
First, let's explore the power of empathy.
Empathy allows us to see the world through another's eyes, to feel their joys, their struggles, and
their triumphs as if they were our own.
When a story successfully invokes empathy, it builds a bridge between the character and the audience,
making the narrative not just a tale to be heard, but an experience to be felt.
Next, we delve into the realm of curiosity.
Humans are naturally inquisitive beings, drawn to mysteries and questions unanswered.
A story that weaves intrigue and keeps the audience guessing not only holds their attention, but also
engages their minds, compelling them to think, predict, and wonder.
The third emotional trigger is the universal search for meaning stories that touch upon themes of purpose,
identity, and the larger questions of life resonate deeply within us.
They offer perspectives, answers, or even more questions, driving us to reflect on our own lives
and the world around us.
Fear.
Our fourth trigger is a powerful motivator.
It's not just about the fear of the unknown or physical danger, but also the fear of loss, failure,
or rejection.
Stories that tap into these fears create tension and suspense, making the resolution all the more satisfying
and relieving.
Lastly, we explore the impact of joy and hope in a world often clouded by negativity.
Stories that highlight the beauty of human spirit, the strength of perseverance, and the possibility
of a better tomorrow inspire us.
They remind us of the goodness in the world and in ourselves, uplifting and motivating us to pursue
our dreams.
In conclusion, mastering these emotional triggers empathy.
Curiosity.
The search for meaning, fear, and hope can transform our storytelling.
By weaving these elements into our narratives, we can create stories that not only entertain, but
also inspire, educate, and connect with our audience on a profound level.
Remember, the most compelling stories are those that make us feel deeply.
Think critically and see the world in a new light.

--- The Neuroscience of Storytelling: How Stories Activate Human Emotions ---

What makes a story not just good, but unforgettable.
It's all about tapping into the human brain, the very fabric of how we perceive and process the world
around us.
Today, we delve into the fascinating realm of the neuroscience of storytelling, uncovering how narratives
do much more than entertain.
They ignite emotions, shape perceptions, and can even alter behaviors.
At the heart of every compelling story lies the power to evoke emotions.
This emotional resonance is no accident.
It's a carefully orchestrated dance of words and narrative structures that speak directly to our brains.
When we hear a story, our brain lights up in areas far beyond just the language processing centers.
It engages regions involved in sensory perception, emotion, and even motor actions as if we're living
the story ourselves.
This immersive experience is what makes stories so impactful.
One key player in this process is the release of neurotransmitters like dopamine and oxytocin.
Dopamine surges when a story takes us on a roller coaster of suspense and surprises, keeping us hooked
for what's next.
Oxytocin.
Often dubbed the empathy hormone, floods our system when we connect with characters on a deep emotional
level, fostering a sense of bonding and care.
These chemical reactions aren't just fleeting moments of pleasure.
They forge lasting memories and can profoundly influence our attitudes and decisions.
But how do stories achieve this remarkable feat?
It boils down to the art of narrative.
Crafting a well-told story weaves together relatable characters, tangible settings, and a compelling
plot, all of which mirror the complexity of real life experiences.
This mirroring triggers a phenomenon known as neural coupling, allowing the listener's brain to synchronize
with the storyteller's intentions, emotions, and perspectives.
In this synchronised state, the listener is not just a passive recipient, but an active participant
Experiencing the story as their own.
Furthermore, stories have the unique ability to bypass our rational defenses and speak directly to
our emotional and subconscious minds.
In a world where we're bombarded with information and skepticism often guards our beliefs.
Narratives can cut through the noise and foster a genuine connection.
This is why stories are not just tools for entertainment, but powerful vehicles for change capable
of inspiring empathy, driving innovation and shaping cultures.
In conclusion, the neuroscience of storytelling reveals the intricate ways stories interact with our
brains, evoking emotions, shaping perceptions, and driving behaviors.
By understanding and harnessing this power, storytellers can craft narratives that resonate deeply,
connect authentically, and leave a lasting impact on their audience.
As we move forward, let's embrace the science behind the art of storytelling, leveraging its potential
to transform not just individual lives, but society at large.

--- Case Study: How Brené Brown Uses Storytelling to Teach Vulnerability ---

In today's lesson, we're diving into the transformative power of storytelling, as illustrated by Brene
Brown, a renowned researcher and storyteller who has captivated millions with her insights on vulnerability,
courage, empathy and shame.
Brene Brown's approach to storytelling isn't just about conveying information, it's about connecting
with the audience on a deeply personal level, fostering a sense of belonging and understanding through
shared experiences and emotions.
Brene Brown's work teaches us that vulnerability is not a weakness but a strength.
She argues that the courage to be vulnerable transforms the way we live, love, parent and lead.
It's through storytelling that Brene Brown illustrates these concepts, making abstract ideas tangible
and relatable.
Her stories are not just narratives, they are invitations to reflect on our own lives and challenges.
One of the key lessons from Brene Brown's storytelling is the importance of authenticity.
She shares her own experiences with vulnerability, not shying away from the discomfort or the emotions
that come with it.
This authenticity creates a powerful connection with the audience, making her message not only heard
but felt.
It's a reminder that at the heart of effective storytelling lies the courage to be truly seen.
Another critical aspect of Brene Brown's storytelling technique is her use of research to back up her
narratives.
This combination of personal anecdotes and empirical evidence strengthens her arguments, making her
stories not only engaging but also credible.
It's a potent reminder of the importance of grounding our stories in reality, providing a solid foundation
for our narratives.
In conclusion, Brene Brown's approach to storytelling offers invaluable lessons for anyone looking
to influence, teach, or connect with others.
Her emphasis on vulnerability, authenticity, and the integration of research within narratives provides
a blueprint for powerful storytelling.
By embracing our own stories of struggle and triumph, we can inspire change, foster connection, and
lead with courage and empathy.
Let's take these lessons to heart and harness the power of storytelling to make a meaningful impact
in our own lives and the lives of others.

--- How to Adapt Your Business Storytelling for TikTok, Instagram, and LinkedIn ---

Adapting your business storytelling for social media platforms like TikTok, Instagram and LinkedIn
requires a nuanced understanding of each platform's unique audience and content preferences.
Today, we'll dive into strategies that can help your stories resonate across these diverse channels,
ensuring your message not only reaches, but also engages your target audience effectively.
TikTok has emerged as a powerhouse for creative and engaging content, primarily appealing to younger
demographics.
The key to success on TikTok lies in authenticity and entertainment.
Businesses should focus on creating short, compelling videos that showcase their brand's personality
and values in a fun, relatable way.
Utilizing trending sounds, challenges and hashtags can also increase your content's visibility and
engagement.
Remember, TikTok users crave genuine and entertaining content, so let your brand's unique voice shine
through in every video.
On the other hand, Instagram is a visual storytelling platform that emphasizes high quality images
and videos to captivate your audience on Instagram, prioritize visually appealing content that tells
a story or conveys an emotion.
Instagram Stories and Reels offer fantastic opportunities for businesses to connect with their audience
through behind the scenes content, product showcases, and user generated content.
Hashtags and geotags can further enhance your visibility, making it easier for potential customers
to discover your brand.
Engaging directly with your followers through comments and direct messages can also foster a sense of
community and loyalty around your brand.
LinkedIn, with its professional focus, requires a different approach.
Here, the key is to position your brand as an industry leader through insightful and informative content.
Share thought leadership articles, industry news and case studies that demonstrate your expertise and
value proposition.
Engaging with your network through comments and messages can help build professional relationships and
establish your brand as a trusted authority in your field.
Additionally, LinkedIn's publishing platform offers a unique opportunity to delve deeper into topics
relevant to your industry, helping you connect with professionals who can influence the success of
your business.
In conclusion, adapting your business storytelling for TikTok, Instagram, and LinkedIn involves understanding
the distinct audience and content preferences of each platform.
On TikTok, focus on authenticity and entertainment.
On Instagram, prioritize visually appealing storytelling and on LinkedIn.
Position your brand as an industry leader through insightful content.
By tailoring your approach to each platform, you can ensure that your stories not only reach but also
resonate with your target audience, driving engagement and fostering connections that propel your business
forward.

--- The Best 5 Business Storytelling Strategies for Viral Content Success ---

In today's lesson, we'll dive into the transformative power of storytelling in business and uncover
the top five strategies for creating content that resonates and spreads like wildfire.
Storytelling is not just an art.
It's a strategic tool that, when wielded with precision, can elevate your brand's message and captivate
your audience like never before.
First on our list is the art of emotional connection.
Every memorable story stirs emotions within us, be it joy, sadness, inspiration or surprise.
Businesses that master the craft of connecting emotionally with their audience create a loyal community
around their brand.
Take, for instance, the iconic Think Different campaign by Apple.
It was not just about selling computers, it was about celebrating creativity and the human spirit.
This emotional resonance is what sets the viral content apart from the rest.
Next, let's talk about authenticity.
In an era where consumers are bombarded with countless ads and promotional messages, authenticity cuts
through the noise.
It's about being genuine, transparent, and true to your brand's values.
Authentic storytelling builds trust and fosters a deeper connection with your audience.
A prime example is Patagonia, a brand that lives and breathes its commitment to sustainability.
Their transparent approach in sharing their journey, including the challenges, makes their story powerful
and relatable.
The third strategy is the use of compelling visuals.
In a digital world dominated by visual content, your story needs to stand out visually to capture attention.
Visual storytelling can amplify your message and make it more memorable, whether it's through stunning
photography, engaging videos, or eye catching graphics.
Visuals can transport your audience into the heart of your story.
Nike's advertising campaigns are a testament to the power of visual storytelling.
Often featuring powerful imagery that evokes strong emotions and conveys a message of perseverance and
achievement.
Fourth on our list is the principle of simplicity.
The most viral stories are often simple and straightforward, making them easy to understand and share.
It's about distilling your message to its core and presenting it in a clear, concise manner.
Google's Year in Search series is a brilliant example of simplicity in storytelling by highlighting
the year's most popular search queries.
Google tells a compelling story of our collective curiosities, concerns and desires, all in a simple
yet profoundly impactful way.
Lastly, we cannot overlook the importance of a strong narrative structure.
A well-structured story flows smoothly, keeping the audience engaged from beginning to end.
It should have a clear beginning, middle, and end with a coherent plot that leads to a satisfying
conclusion.
The journey of Airbnb from struggling to pay rent to becoming a global community of hosts and travelers
showcases the power of narrative structure in storytelling.
Their story of overcoming challenges and making the world a more connected place resonates deeply with
their audience.
In conclusion, mastering these five storytelling strategies can significantly enhance your brand's
content, making it more likely to go viral and leave a lasting impact on your audience.
Emotional connection, authenticity, compelling visuals, simplicity, and a strong narrative structure
are the keys to creating stories that not only captivate but also inspire action.
As we move forward in the digital age, let's harness the power of storytelling to transform our brands
and connect with our audience on a deeper level.

--- The Art of Short-Form Storytelling: Engaging Audiences in 60 Seconds ---

In today's fast paced world, mastering the art of short form storytelling is more crucial than ever,
with the average human attention span shorter than that of a goldfish.
Engaging your audience in 60s can be the difference between being remembered and being overlooked.
Let's dive into how you can captivate and charm your audience in just one minute.
Firstly, the essence of short form storytelling lies in its brevity and simplicity.
It's about making every word count and every moment resonate.
Start with a hook, something that immediately grabs attention.
This could be a surprising fact, a provocative question, or a compelling statement.
The goal is to spark curiosity and compel the audience to listen.
Next, focus on the core message.
In short form storytelling.
There's no room for fluff.
You need to get to the heart of your story quickly.
Identify the single most important message you want to convey, and build your story around it.
Use vivid imagery and strong emotions to create a connection.
Remember, people may forget what you said, but they will never forget how you made them feel.
Moreover, the power of storytelling also lies in its ability to create a memorable narrative.
Even in 60s, you can tell a story with a clear beginning, middle and end.
Start with the situation.
Introduce a conflict or challenge and conclude with a resolution.
This structure not only makes your message more digestible, but also more engaging.
Incorporating a personal touch or a relatable example can significantly enhance the impact of your story.
People are drawn to stories they can see themselves in.
By making your story relatable, you bridge the gap between you and your audience, making your message
more persuasive and memorable.
Finally, end with a call to action.
Inspire your audience to think, feel, or do something as a result of your story.
Whether it's to challenge a belief, change a behavior, or simply reflect on a topic.
Your conclusion should leave your audience with something to take away.
In summary, short form storytelling is an art that, when mastered, can dramatically improve your
ability to engage and influence your audience.
By focusing on a captivating hook, a clear message, a structured narrative, relatable content, and
a compelling call to action, you can create powerful stories that resonate with your audience, all
within 60s.
Remember, in the world of storytelling, it's not about the length of your story, but the impact it
leaves.

--- How to Turn Customer Stories into Powerful Social Media Testimonials ---

In today's digital age, the power of storytelling has transcended traditional platforms, finding a
new dynamic home on social media.
One of the most compelling ways to connect with your audience and promote your brand is through the
art of turning customer stories into powerful social media testimonials.
These narratives not only humanize your brand, but also build trust and credibility with potential
customers.
Let's dive into how you can master this art and make an impact on your social media channels.
Firstly, identifying the right customer story is crucial.
Look for testimonials that are not just positive, but also resonate with your brand's values and mission.
These stories should highlight the unique benefits of your product or service, and how it has made
a significant difference in a customer's life or business.
Remember, authenticity is key.
A genuine, relatable story will always have a greater impact than a polished but less sincere narrative.
Once you've identified a compelling story, the next step is to craft it into a format that's optimized
for social media.
This means keeping it concise, engaging, and visually appealing.
Use high quality images or videos to accompany the story, as visual content is more likely to capture
attention and encourage shares.
When writing the narrative, focus on emotions and outcomes.
How did your product or service solve a problem or improve the customer's situation?
Highlight these aspects in a way that evokes emotion and prompts the reader to envision themselves experiencing
similar benefits.
Engagement doesn't stop at posting the story.
Encourage interaction by asking your audience to share their own experiences or thoughts on the story.
This not only increases engagement, but also fosters a sense of community and belonging among your
followers.
Additionally, always seek permission from the customer before sharing their story and thank them for
their contribution.
This not only shows respect for their privacy, but also strengthens your relationship with them.
To sum up, transforming customer stories into social media testimonials is a powerful strategy to enhance
your brand's presence and connect with your audience on a deeper level.
By focusing on authenticity, emotion, and engagement, you can leverage these narratives to build
trust, credibility, and a loyal community around your brand.
Remember, in the realm of social media, it's the stories that resonate with people's hearts that are
remembered and shared.
Embrace the power of storytelling and watch your brand's influence grow on social media.

--- Case Study: How Nike and Airbnb Use Social Media Stories to Build Brand Loyalty ---

What makes a brand not just survive, but thrive in the digital age.
Today, we're diving into how Nike and Airbnb leverage social media stories to cultivate deep brand
loyalty.
Both companies have mastered the art of storytelling, connecting with their audiences on an emotional
level far beyond traditional marketing tactics.
Nike, a global leader in sportswear, doesn't just sell products, it sells inspiration through its
social media stories.
Nike shares tales of perseverance, hard work, and the joy of sports.
These stories aren't about sneakers.
They're about the athletes who wear them.
From the everyday jogger overcoming personal obstacles to elite athletes breaking world records.
Nike's narrative is clear if you have a body, you're an athlete.
This approach transforms customers into a community, making Nike's brand part of their personal identity.
On the other hand, Airbnb, the platform that revolutionized travel by offering unique homestays,
uses social media stories to share the diverse experiences of hosts and travelers around the world.
Each post is a window into a different culture, inviting viewers to explore new destinations through
the eyes of locals.
Airbnb's message is about more than just accommodation, it's about belonging anywhere.
This powerful storytelling strategy turns the concept of travel into a shared human experience, fostering
a sense of global community among its users.
Both Nike and Airbnb understand that in today's digital landscape, consumers are looking for authenticity.
They don't want to be sold to.
They want to be part of a story.
By focusing on real people and real experiences, these brands have created a narrative that resonates
deeply with their audience, building trust and loyalty that transcends the average customer brand relationship.
Moreover, these stories are not one off campaigns.
They are consistent themes in both brands, their marketing strategies evolving with the audience but
always staying true to their core message.
This consistency is key to their success, ensuring that each story, no matter how brief, reinforces
the brand's values and identity.
In conclusion, Nike and Airbnb's use of social media stories is a testament to the power of storytelling
in building brand loyalty.
By focusing on authenticity, community, and consistent messaging, they have managed to not just capture
the attention of their audience, but to hold it, turning customers into brand advocates for any brand
looking to make a lasting impact in the digital age.
There's a valuable lesson here.
Sell stories, not products.

--- How to Use Storytelling to Control Narratives During a PR Crisis ---

In today's lesson, we delve into the art of using storytelling to control narratives during a PR crisis.
In the current digital age, where information spreads at the speed of light, managing your brand's
story during a crisis is more crucial than ever.
A well crafted narrative can not only mitigate damage, but also enhance your brand's resilience and
trustworthiness.
Let's explore the strategies that make this possible.
Firstly, understanding the power of empathy in storytelling is key during a crisis.
Stakeholders want to feel understood and reassured that their concerns are being addressed.
Crafting a narrative that acknowledges the issue shows understanding and empathy towards those affected
lays the foundation for trust.
For instance, when a popular beverage company faced backlash over an advertisement, they quickly took
to social media to apologize.
Acknowledging the public's feelings and outlining steps to prevent future offenses.
This approach helped to quell the uproar and begin the process of rebuilding trust.
Secondly, Transparency is non-negotiable.
Attempting to hide details or obfuscate the truth can lead to greater backlash when the truth inevitably
emerges.
A narrative that is open about the challenges faced, the mistakes made, and the lessons learned demonstrates
integrity and accountability.
Consider the case of a tech giant that faced a data breach by openly discussing the breaches extent,
the flaws in their system, and their plans to enhance security.
They managed to restore confidence in their brand.
Furthermore, timing is everything.
In the wake of a crisis, the window to shape the narrative is small.
Quickly crafting and disseminating your story through press releases, social media or direct communications
can prevent the spread of misinformation and speculation.
A leading airline demonstrated this when it responded to a flight incident within hours, providing
facts, expressing sympathy and outlining their response plan, effectively controlling the narrative
from the outset.
Additionally, consistency across all channels is critical, whether it's through press statements,
social media posts or interviews.
Ensuring that the message remains consistent prevents confusion and reinforces your narrative.
Discrepancies in the story can be exploited and can undermine your efforts to control the narrative.
Lastly, engaging with the audience is a powerful tool allowing stakeholders to ask questions, express
concerns, and feel heard can transform a potentially adversarial situation into a collaborative problem
solving process.
This approach not only helps in controlling the narrative, but also strengthens the relationship with
your audience in the long run.
In conclusion, storytelling is a potent tool in managing a PR crisis.
By focusing on empathy, transparency, timing, consistency, and engagement, you can navigate the
stormy waters of a crisis and emerge with your brand's integrity intact.
Remember, the goal is not just to survive the crisis, but to thrive in its aftermath by building a
stronger, more trustworthy relationship with your stakeholders.

--- The Top 5 Worst Crisis Storytelling Fails and What We Can Learn ---

What are the key factors that drive technological advancements in the automotive industry, and how
do they shape the future of transportation?
Let's explore the exciting innovations that are revolutionizing the way we travel.
First and foremost, electric vehicles.
EVs are leading the charge towards a more sustainable future with concerns about climate change and
air pollution.
The shift towards EVs offers a cleaner and greener alternative to traditional combustion engine vehicles.
The development of advanced battery technology has significantly increased the range and efficiency
of EVs, making them more practical for daily use.
Furthermore, autonomous driving technology is reshaping the automotive landscape.
From advanced driver assistance systems to fully autonomous vehicles, the race toward self-driving
cars is driven by the promise of safer roads, reduced accidents, and increased mobility for all.
Companies like Tesla, Waymo and GM are at the forefront of this revolution, investing heavily in research
and development to make autonomous driving a reality.
Connectivity is another key driver of innovation in the automotive industry.
The rise of the Internet of Things IoT has enabled cars to communicate with each other, with infrastructure
and with other devices, creating a seamless and integrated transportation ecosystem.
This connectivity not only enhances the driving experience, but also improves safety and efficiency
on the roads.
Moreover, sustainability is a crucial factor shaping the future of transportation.
From the use of recycled materials in vehicle manufacturing to the development of biofuels and hydrogen
fuel cells, automakers are exploring alternative ways to reduce the environmental impact of their products.
The concept of a circular economy, where resources are reused and recycled, is gaining traction in
the automotive industry.
Promoting a more sustainable approach to production and consumption.
Lastly, data analytics and artificial intelligence are driving innovation in vehicle design, production
and maintenance.
The ability to collect and analyze vast amounts of data enables car manufacturers to optimize performance,
predict maintenance needs, and personalize the driving experience for customers.
AI powered systems are revolutionizing everything from predictive maintenance to personalized infotainment
systems, making cars smarter and more efficient.
In conclusion, the automotive industry is experiencing a technological revolution driven by electric
vehicles, autonomous driving, connectivity, sustainability and data analytics.
These key factors are shaping the future of transportation, leading to safer, more sustainable and
more efficient ways of getting from point A to point B.
Embracing these innovations will not only transform the way we travel, but also pave the way for a
greener and more connected future.

--- How to Stay Credible and Calm When Storytelling During a High-Stakes Moment ---

What makes a story compelling enough to hold the attention of an audience during high stakes moments.
Understanding the art of storytelling, especially when the stakes are high, is crucial for anyone
looking to influence, persuade, or simply convey a message effectively.
Today, we'll dive into strategies that enhance your credibility and maintain calmness, ensuring your
stories resonate deeply with your listeners.
To begin with, the foundation of any impactful story is authenticity.
Authenticity connects the storyteller with the audience on a personal level, making the narrative not
just heard, but felt.
When you share a story, grounding it in genuine experiences or emotions, it not only enhances your
credibility but also builds trust with your audience.
This trust is pivotal during high stakes situations where skepticism may be high and attention spans
short.
Another key element is the structure of your story.
A well-structured story has a clear beginning, middle, and end, guiding the audience through the
narrative seamlessly.
Start with a hook that captures attention immediately.
This could be a surprising fact, a question, or a bold statement.
The body of your story should then build on this hook, providing details, challenges, and the journey.
Finally, conclude with a resolution that leaves your audience with a memorable takeaway or call to
action.
This structure not only keeps your narrative focused, but also makes it easier for you to remain calm
and collected as you have a clear roadmap to follow.
Emotional connection is another crucial aspect.
Stories that evoke emotions are not only more memorable, but also more impactful.
Whether it's joy, sadness, fear, or excitement, tapping into the emotional aspect of storytelling
can significantly enhance the engagement of your audience.
However, it's essential to balance emotion with facts and logic to maintain credibility, especially
in a professional setting.
Pacing and delivery play significant roles in storytelling, particularly during high stakes moments.
The pace at which you tell your story can build suspense, emphasize key points, or convey urgency.
Pausing at strategic moments allows your audience to absorb the information, reflect on it, and anticipate
what's coming next.
Meanwhile, a calm and confident delivery reassures your audience, making them more receptive to your
message.
Incorporating visuals or metaphors can also make your story more engaging and easier to understand,
especially when dealing with complex ideas or data.
Visuals grab attention and can convey information more efficiently than words alone, while metaphors
help in making abstract concepts tangible.
Lastly, practice is essential.
The more familiar you are with your story, the more confidently you can deliver it.
Rehearsing your story helps in refining its structure, timing, and delivery, ensuring that you can
maintain calmness even under pressure.
In conclusion, storytelling during high stakes moments requires a blend of authenticity, structure,
emotional connection, strategic pacing, and confident delivery.
By focusing on these elements, you can craft stories that not only capture attention, but also persuade,
inspire, and influence your audience.
Remember, at the heart of every great story is the ability to connect with your listeners on a level
that goes beyond words, resonating with their experiences, emotions, and aspirations.

--- Case Study: How Starbucks and Toyota Used Storytelling to Recover from Crisis ---

Today, we're diving into a fascinating exploration of how storytelling can be a powerful tool in navigating
through crisis situations.
Specifically, we'll look at two iconic brands, Starbucks and Toyota, and how they leveraged the art
of storytelling to recover from significant challenges.
Starbucks, a global coffeehouse chain, faced a severe backlash in 2018 following an incident in Philadelphia
where two African American men were arrested in one of their stores.
This event sparked widespread accusations of racial bias and discrimination, threatening the brand's
inclusive image.
Starbucks responded by closing over 8000 stores for a day to conduct racial bias education for its employees.
But what truly marked their recovery was how they used storytelling to address the issue publicly.
They shared stories of their employees personal experiences with bias, alongside the company's long
standing commitment to inclusion and diversity.
This narrative helped humanize the brand, showcasing its willingness to learn, adapt and foster a
culture of belonging and respect.
On the other hand, Toyota faced its crisis in 2009 and 2010 with multiple recalls of vehicles due to
safety concerns related to unintended acceleration.
The situation was dire as it challenged the core of Toyota's reputation for quality and reliability.
In response, Toyota launched a comprehensive public relations campaign that included a series of heartfelt
apologies from its top executives, who openly acknowledged the company's mistakes and outlined the
steps being taken to address the safety issues.
They shared stories of their commitment to safety, the rigorous testing their cars undergo, and the
introduction of new safety technologies.
By focusing on their journey towards rectifying the problem and their unwavering commitment to customer
safety, Toyota was able to rebuild trust and restore its image.
Both Starbucks and Toyota demonstrate the power of storytelling in crisis management By openly acknowledging
their faults and sharing their journey towards resolution, they were able to connect with their audience
on a personal level, rebuild trust, and ultimately recover from their crises.
These cases illustrate that storytelling is not just about selling a product or a service, it's about
conveying values, admitting vulnerabilities, and demonstrating a commitment to doing better in the
face of adversity.
A well crafted story can be a brand's most valuable asset.
In conclusion, the recovery stories of Starbucks and Toyota highlight the indispensable role of storytelling
in crisis management.
They show that while every crisis poses a threat, it also offers an opportunity to reaffirm core values,
engage in meaningful dialogue with stakeholders, and emerge stronger.
As we look towards the future, the lesson for businesses is clear embracing transparency, accountability,
and the power of storytelling can not only help navigate through crises, but can also enhance brand
loyalty and trust in the long run.

--- Mastering Transparency: How Honest Stories Can Save a Brand’s Reputation ---

In today's fast paced world, the power of transparency and storytelling has never been more crucial
for brand reputation.
As consumers demand more honesty and integrity from the companies they support.
Brands that embrace transparency are finding themselves at the forefront of customer loyalty and trust.
Let's dive into the transformative role of honest storytelling and how it can salvage, even save a
brand's reputation in times of crisis.
Transparency isn't just about admitting mistakes.
It's a proactive approach to sharing your brand's values, processes, and challenges openly with your
audience.
This approach builds a foundation of trust crucial for long term customer relationships.
When a brand chooses to be transparent, it communicates that it values its customers and respects their
right to make informed decisions.
One compelling example of this is Patagonia, a company that has built its brand around transparency
and environmental advocacy.
Patagonia doesn't shy away from discussing the environmental impact of its production processes, and
it actively encourages consumers to buy less and consider the environmental footprint of their purchases.
This honest dialogue has not only bolstered Patagonia's reputation, but also fostered a community of
loyal customers who share the brand's values.
Moreover, in the digital age, where information is readily accessible, attempts to hide failures
or mistakes can backfire spectacularly.
The 2018 Starbucks incident, where two African American men were arrested in one of its stores, could
have severely damaged the brand's reputation.
However, Starbucks response, which included closing stores for racial bias training and publicly addressing
the issue, showed a commitment to transparency and improvement.
This response helped mitigate potential long term damage to its reputation.
Transparency also plays a critical role in crisis management.
When a crisis hits, a transparent communication strategy can turn a potential PR disaster into an opportunity
to demonstrate accountability and commitment to change.
For instance, when KFC faced a chicken shortage in the UK due to logistical issues, their response
was both transparent and humorous.
KFC's full page ads in newspapers, rearranging its letters to FK with an apology below, were widely
praised for their honesty and humour, effectively turning a crisis into a brand strengthening moment.
In conclusion, embracing transparency and storytelling is not just a moral choice, but a strategic
business decision.
Brands that are open about their values, acknowledge their mistakes and communicate honestly with their
customers, can navigate crises more effectively and build stronger for more resilient relationships
with their audience.
As we move forward, the brands that will thrive are those that recognise the power of transparency
in forging deeper connections with their customers by prioritizing honest communication.
Companies can transform challenges into opportunities for growth and reaffirm their commitment to their
values and their customers.

--- How Storytelling is Revolutionizing B2B and B2C Sales Strategies ---

In today's digital age, storytelling has become a pivotal element in shaping the strategies for B2B
and B2C sales.
Gone are the days when features and benefits alone could win over customers.
Now, it's all about connecting on a deeper level, crafting narratives that resonate with your audience's
values, challenges, and aspirations.
Let's delve into how storytelling is revolutionizing sales strategies, making businesses more relatable,
trustworthy, and ultimately more successful.
At the heart of effective storytelling in sales is the ability to articulate a brand's purpose.
Companies like Apple and Airbnb have mastered this art, weaving their core values into every product
launch and customer interaction.
They don't just sell products or services, they sell experiences, dreams, and a sense of belonging.
This approach has transformed customer perceptions, turning casual buyers into loyal advocates.
Another key aspect is personalization.
With the advent of data analytics, businesses can now tailor their stories to specific segments of
their audience, making each narrative feel personal and relevant.
This level of customization enhances the customer experience, making each interaction feel unique and
valued.
It's not just about addressing the customer by name, but about understanding their journey and offering
solutions that meet their exact needs.
Moreover, storytelling in sales isn't confined to the written word or sales pitches.
It extends to social media, content marketing, and even the product design itself.
Every touch point is an opportunity to tell a story.
Visual storytelling through videos, infographics, and interactive content has seen a surge in popularity
thanks to its ability to engage and captivate audiences.
These visual narratives make complex information more digestible and shareable, amplifying the reach
of your message.
The impact of storytelling on sales is also evident in the numbers.
Studies show that stories can significantly increase the perceived value of a product, allowing companies
to command higher prices.
Furthermore, narratives that evoke emotions are more likely to be remembered and shared.
Extending the reach of your brand beyond traditional marketing channels.
In conclusion, as we look towards the future, the role of storytelling in B2B and B2C sales strategies
is only set to grow.
The brands that succeed will be those that can craft compelling narratives, connect with customers
on an emotional level, and deliver consistent, personalized experiences across all platforms.
Storytelling is not just a tool for engagement.
It's a strategic asset that can drive growth, loyalty, and competitive advantage.

--- Using Interactive and Immersive Stories to Close More Deals ---

In today's lesson, we delve into the transformative power of interactive and immersive storytelling
techniques in sealing more deals.
The essence of storytelling in business transcends mere presentation.
It's about creating an experience that captivates, engages, and ultimately convinces your audience.
Let's break down how leveraging these advanced storytelling methods can significantly enhance your sales
strategy.
Interactive storytelling involves the audience directly, making them a part of the narrative.
This technique transforms passive listeners into active participants, fostering a deeper connection
with the message being conveyed.
Imagine a sales pitch where the client is not just hearing about the benefits of a product, but is
also involved in a scenario where they can see those benefits in action.
This method not only increases engagement, but also aids in better retention of information, making
it a powerful tool in closing deals.
Immersive storytelling, on the other hand, utilizes technology to create a vivid, lifelike experience
through virtual reality, VR, or augmented reality.
Are potential clients can experience the benefits of a product or service in a highly realistic and
interactive environment.
For instance, a real estate company can use VR to give a virtual tour of properties, allowing clients
to explore every corner as if they were physically there.
This level of immersion can significantly boost the emotional impact of the story, making it more persuasive.
The combination of interactive and immersive storytelling can dramatically transform the sales process.
It turns abstract concepts into tangible experiences, making it easier for clients to understand and
appreciate the value of a product or service.
Moreover, it differentiates your pitch from the competition, providing a memorable experience that
stands out.
Real world examples of companies successfully employing these techniques abound.
For instance, a car manufacturer using AR to let customers customize and interact with different car
models in a showroom setting.
Or a software company creating an interactive demo that guides potential clients through its products
features based on their specific interests and needs.
In conclusion, interactive and immersive storytelling are not just futuristic concepts, but practical,
powerful tools available today for enhancing sales strategies.
They enable a more engaging, memorable, and convincing sales pitch by transforming passive audiences
into active participants and abstract benefits into tangible experiences.
As we look towards the future, these storytelling techniques will undoubtedly play a pivotal role in
shaping the landscape of business, communication and sales.
Embracing them now can set you apart and ahead in a competitive market.

--- Top 5 Data-Driven Storytelling Strategies for Persuasive Selling ---

In today's lesson, we're diving into the art of data driven storytelling, a powerful tool that has
transformed the landscape of persuasive selling.
At the heart of this approach lies the ability to weave compelling narratives around data, making complex
information accessible and engaging for your audience.
Let's explore how you can harness this strategy to captivate and convince your target market.
Firstly, it's crucial to understand that data alone doesn't persuade.
It's the story you tell with it that captures attention.
Consider the success of companies like Spotify, which uses listening data to create personalized year
end stories for its users.
These narratives not only share insights, but also build a personal connection, showing the power
of data driven storytelling in creating memorable experiences.
Another key strategy is the use of visual storytelling.
Humans are visual creatures, and complex data becomes digestible when presented through graphs, charts,
and infographics.
A prime example is how The New York Times uses data visualization to simplify intricate stories, making
them not only more understandable but also more engaging.
Moreover, the narrative structure plays a pivotal role in data driven storytelling.
Every story should have a clear beginning, middle, and end.
Start with presenting a problem or question.
Follow with the data analysis and conclude with a solution or insight.
This structure helps guide your audience through the information, making the data meaningful and the
conclusion impactful.
Personalization is another powerful aspect of data driven storytelling.
Tailoring the story to your audience's interests and needs makes the data relevant to them.
Netflix excels in this area by analyzing viewing patterns to recommend shows and movies, effectively
using data stories to keep users engaged and subscribed.
Lastly, it's important to maintain ethical standards when using data in storytelling.
Transparency about where the data comes from and how it's used builds trust with your audience.
Ethical storytelling respects privacy and avoids manipulating data to mislead or deceive us.
In conclusion, data driven storytelling is an art that, when mastered, can significantly enhance
your persuasive selling strategies by making data relatable through stories.
Using visual aids for clarity, structuring your narrative for impact, personalizing the message,
and upholding ethical standards, you can engage and influence your audience more effectively than ever
before.
Embrace these strategies to turn data into your most powerful storytelling tool.

--- Case Study: How Amazon and Salesforce Use Storytelling to Dominate Sales ---

Today, we'll dive deep into how storytelling has become a cornerstone of successful sales strategies,
particularly focusing on giants like Amazon and Salesforce.
These companies have not just sold products, they've sold experiences, dreams and futures all wrapped
up in compelling stories that resonate with their audiences on a personal level.
Starting with Amazon, a company that has mastered the art of customer centric storytelling.
Amazon's approach is simple yet powerful.
They place the customer at the heart of every story they tell.
When you hear about Amazon, it's not just about the convenience of shopping online.
It's about the experience of having the world at your fingertips.
They craft narratives around how their products and services can transform daily life, making every
purchase a path to solving a problem or fulfilling a desire.
This strategy turns customers into heroes of their own stories, with Amazon as the enabler of their
quests.
On the other side, we have Salesforce, a titan in the CRM industry which has harnessed the power of
storytelling to demystify the complex world of customer relationship management.
Salesforce stories often begin with a challenge.
A common pain point for many businesses managing customer information and interactions.
They then introduce their product as the hero that can overcome this challenge, backed by real world
success stories from companies of all sizes.
Through these narratives, Salesforce doesn't just sell software, they sell a vision of business transformation
and success.
Both Amazon and Salesforce utilize storytelling to create emotional connections with their customers.
They understand that people don't just buy products or services, they buy better versions of themselves
by embedding their offerings within stories of success, innovation, and transformation, they engage
customers on a deeper level, making the sales process feel more like a journey to a better future rather
than a transaction.
Moreover, these companies continuously refine their storytelling techniques based on data analytics
and customer feedback.
They are always listening, learning, and evolving their stories to ensure they remain relevant and
impactful.
This data driven approach allows them to craft narratives that not only capture attention, but also
drive action.
In conclusion, the success of Amazon and Salesforce highlights the undeniable power of storytelling
in sales.
By creating narratives that resonate with their audiences, they have managed to not just sell products,
but to build loyal communities around their brands.
Their approach teaches us that the future of sales lies not in the hard sell, but in the art of storytelling,
where customers see themselves as the protagonists of a shared journey towards success and fulfillment.
Embracing this approach can transform the way companies connect with their audiences, turning every
sale into a story worth telling.

--- How to Use Storytelling to Overcome Customer Objections in Any Industry ---

Understanding the power of storytelling can transform the way we approach customer objections, turning
challenges into opportunities for connection and persuasion.
Today, we're diving into the art of using storytelling to navigate and overcome customer objections
across various industries.
At the heart of every customer objection lies a story waiting to be understood, whether it's concerns
about cost, functionality, or compatibility.
Each objection offers a unique insight into the customer's needs and expectations.
Recognizing this allows us to craft stories that resonate on a personal level, addressing concerns
while highlighting the value and benefits of our offerings.
Let's consider the example of a customer hesitant about adopting a new software solution, worried about
the transition process and its complexity.
Instead of focusing solely on technical specifications or pricing, we share a story of a similar business
that faced these exact concerns.
We detail their journey, emphasizing the challenges they encountered, the solutions implemented,
and the positive outcomes experienced.
This narrative not only addresses the objection, but also humanizes the experience, showcasing empathy
and understanding.
Furthermore, storytelling enables us to present data and facts within a context that is relatable and
memorable.
For instance, when discussing the longevity and cost effectiveness of a product, a story about a long
time user who has significantly saved money and reduced waste over the years can be more impactful than
presenting statistics alone.
This approach not only makes the information more digestible, but also creates an emotional connection,
making it more likely for the customer to remember and be persuaded by the argument.
Incorporating storytelling into our strategy requires a deep understanding of our audience.
It involves listening to their concerns, identifying common themes, and crafting narratives that speak
directly to their experiences and aspirations.
It's about showing, not just telling.
We demonstrate how our product or service fits into their story, helping them overcome obstacles and
achieve their goals.
Moreover, effective storytelling and customer objections is not just about the stories we tell, but
also how we tell them.
It's important to be genuine, authentic, and empathetic, allowing our passion and belief in our offerings
to shine through.
This authenticity builds trust and credibility, fostering a stronger connection with the customer.
In conclusion, storytelling is a powerful tool in overcoming customer objections.
It allows us to address concerns in a way that is engaging, relatable, and impactful.
By weaving facts and data into compelling narratives, we can turn objections into opportunities, fostering
understanding and building lasting relationships with our customers.
Remember, the next time you face a customer objection, think beyond the problem.
Craft a story that transforms doubt into belief, guiding your customers towards a positive resolution.

--- The Ethics of AI-Generated Stories in Business Communication ---

In today's lesson, we delve into the complex world of AI generated stories in business communication,
focusing on the ethical considerations that accompany this innovative technology.
As artificial intelligence continues to evolve, its application in creating compelling narratives for
marketing, branding and customer engagement has become increasingly prevalent.
However, with great power comes great responsibility.
The ethical use of AI in storytelling requires a careful balance between innovation and integrity.
At the heart of this discussion is the concept of authenticity.
In an era where AI can produce stories that resonate with human emotions and experiences, the line
between human generated and AI generated content blurs.
This raises important questions about transparency.
Should companies disclose when a story has been generated by AI?
The answer lies in the principle of honesty, which is fundamental to building trust with audiences.
Transparency not only respects the audience's right to know, but also fosters a culture of integrity
in the digital age.
Another critical aspect is the issue of bias.
AI systems learn from vast data sets, and these data sets can contain biases that inadvertently get
embedded in the stories.
AI generates This can lead to narratives that perpetuate stereotypes or exclude certain groups, undermining
efforts to promote diversity and inclusion.
Businesses must be vigilant in monitoring and correcting biases in AI generated content, ensuring that
their stories reflect the diverse world in which we live.
Furthermore, the implications of AI generated stories extend to intellectual property rights.
As AI creates content, questions arise about ownership and copyright.
Navigating these legal waters requires a clear understanding of current laws and a proactive approach
to advocating for policies that recognize the unique challenges posed by AI in creative processes.
In conclusion, the ethical use of AI generated stories in business communication is a multifaceted
issue that demands careful consideration by prioritizing transparency, actively combating bias, and
respecting intellectual property rights.
Businesses can harness the power of AI to tell stories that not only captivate audiences, but also
uphold the highest ethical standards.
As we move forward, it is imperative that we continue to engage in thoughtful dialogue about the role
of AI in storytelling, ensuring that as we embrace innovation, we never lose sight of our ethical
compass.

--- How AI Can Enhance, Not Replace, Your Business Storytelling ---

In today's lesson, we delve into the fascinating world of artificial intelligence, AI and its transformative
role in business storytelling.
I often perceived as a tool for replacing human effort, has instead emerged as a powerful ally in enhancing
the art of storytelling in the business context.
Let's explore how AI can elevate our stories, making them more engaging, insightful, and impactful.
At the heart of effective business storytelling lies the ability to connect with audiences on a personal
level, conveying complex ideas in a relatable and compelling manner.
AI aids in this endeavor by providing data driven insights and personalization at scale.
For instance, AI algorithms can analyze vast amounts of customer data to identify patterns and preferences,
enabling storytellers to tailor their narratives to resonate with specific audience segments.
This level of personalization was unimaginable just a few years ago.
Moreover, AI powered tools are revolutionizing the way we generate and refine content.
Natural language processing NLP technologies can assist in drafting initial story outlines or even full
drafts based on key inputs, saving valuable time and allowing storytellers to focus on creativity and
emotional connection.
These tools can also suggest improvements in language and style, making the content more accessible
and engaging.
Another exciting development is the use of AI in interactive storytelling.
Through interactive platforms, businesses can create dynamic stories that adapt based on audience interactions,
providing a more immersive and personalized experience.
This not only captivates the audience, but also provides valuable feedback and insights into their
preferences and behaviors.
I also plays a crucial role in measuring the impact of storytelling.
Advanced analytics tools can track engagement, sentiment, and conversion metrics, offering real time
feedback on the effectiveness of a story.
This allows storytellers to iterate and refine their narratives, ensuring they achieve the desired
impact.
In conclusion, AI is not a threat to the art of storytelling, but a valuable tool that enhances our
ability to tell compelling, personalized, and impactful stories by leveraging AI.
Businesses can elevate their storytelling, connecting with their audiences in more meaningful ways,
and driving engagement and loyalty.
As we move forward, the integration of AI in storytelling will only become more sophisticated, opening
new avenues for creativity and connection.
Let's embrace these technologies, exploring the boundless possibilities they offer for enriching our
narratives and engaging our audiences.

--- Top 5 AI Tools for Crafting More Engaging and Impactful Narratives ---

In today's digital age.
Storytelling is not just an art.
It's a powerful tool for engagement, persuasion, and connection.
With the rapid advancement of technology, artificial intelligence, AI has become a pivotal ally in
crafting narratives that captivate and resonate with audiences across various platforms.
Let's dive into the top five AI tools that are transforming the landscape of storytelling, making narratives
more engaging and impactful than ever before.
First on our list is GPT three, developed by OpenAI.
This state of the art language processing AI tool can generate human like text based on the input it
receives.
Imagine creating a story and with just a few prompts.
GPT three expands it into a full blown narrative, complete with character development and plot twists.
Its ability to understand and generate latent language has opened up new frontiers in creative writing,
making it an invaluable resource for writers seeking to add depth and diversity to their stories.
Next, we explore the capabilities of Quillbot, a paraphrasing tool that employs AI to rephrase and
refine text.
Quillbot is not just about changing words, it's about enhancing clarity, tone, and style, making
your narrative more accessible and engaging.
Whether you're looking to simplify complex ideas or add a touch of sophistication to your writing,
Quillbot assists in tailoring your language to suit your target audience perfectly.
Moving on, let's talk about Jasper, an AI tool designed to assist with content creation across various
formats, from blog posts to scripts.
Jasper can help overcome writer's block by generating creative content, ideas, and even full drafts
based on minimal input.
Its versatility makes it an essential tool for storytellers aiming to produce consistent, high quality
content across different media.
AI dungeon represents a leap towards interactive storytelling, where AI generates dynamic narratives
based on user decisions.
This tool showcases the potential of AI in creating immersive choose your own adventure stories, where
the audience is not just a passive consumer but an active participant.
The possibilities are endless.
From exploring fantasy worlds to solving mysteries, making storytelling a more engaging and personalized
experience.
Lastly, we explore the world of visual storytelling with deep art, an AI tool that transforms text
into compelling visual narratives.
By analyzing text input, deep art can create stunning images and visuals that complement your story,
adding an extra layer of engagement.
This tool bridges the gap between textual and visual storytelling, allowing creators to convey their
message more effectively.
In conclusion, the intersection of AI and storytelling is paving the way for innovative approaches
to narrative creation.
Tools like GPT three, Quillbot, Jasper, AI, dungeon, and Deep Art are not just enhancing the storytelling
process, they are redefining it, enabling creators to explore new dimensions of creativity and engagement.
As we look towards the future, the role of AI in storytelling will undoubtedly grow, offering endless
possibilities for captivating and connecting with audiences worldwide.
Embracing these tools can elevate our narratives, making them not just heard, but felt and remembered.

--- Case Study: How ChatGPT and Jasper Are Reshaping Digital Storytelling ---

In today's lesson, we're diving into the transformative world of digital storytelling with a focus
on how ChatGPT and Jasper are pioneering new horizons.
The evolution of storytelling from traditional methods to digital platforms has always been about connecting
with audiences on a deeper level.
Now, with the advent of artificial intelligence, we're witnessing a seismic shift in how stories are
crafted and delivered.
ChatGPT and Jasper, two cutting edge AI tools, are at the forefront of this revolution.
They're not just changing the game, they're redefining the rules.
These platforms harness the power of advanced machine learning algorithms to generate content that's
not only compelling, but also highly personalized baths.
Imagine crafting a narrative that resonates with each individual reader or viewer, tapping into their
unique interests, experiences, and emotions.
That's the promise of AI driven storytelling.
But what sets ChatGPT and Jasper apart?
It's their ability to learn and adapt.
These platforms analyze vast amounts of data, learning from user interactions, feedback, and even
the latest cultural trends.
This enables them to produce content that's not only relevant, but also incredibly timely, whether
it's a marketing campaign, a news article or a creative story.
ChatGPT and Jasper can tailor the content to meet the evolving needs and preferences of the audience.
Furthermore, these tools democratize content creation.
You no longer need to be a seasoned writer or a marketing guru to tell a compelling story.
With ChatGPT and Jasper.
Anyone can become a storyteller.
This opens up a world of possibilities for individuals and businesses alike, allowing them to connect
with their audience in ways that were previously unimaginable.
However, as with any technology, there are challenges and ethical considerations the accuracy of the
information, the potential for bias, and the importance of maintaining a human touch in storytelling
are all critical factors to consider.
As we embrace AI in storytelling, we must also navigate these complexities with care and responsibility.
In conclusion, ChatGPT and Jasper are not just reshaping digital storytelling, they're expanding the
boundaries of creativity and connection.
By leveraging these AI tools, we can craft narratives that are more personalized, engaging, and impactful
than ever before.
As storytellers, it's an exciting time to explore the potential of these technologies and harness their
power to captivate and inspire our audiences.

--- The Future of AI and Human Collaboration in Brand Storytelling ---

In the ever evolving landscape of brand storytelling, the fusion of artificial intelligence AI with
human creativity is setting the stage for unprecedented innovation.
As we delve into the future of AI and human collaboration in brand storytelling, it's essential to
understand how this partnership is not just altering the narrative techniques, but also enhancing the
engagement and personalization of stories told by brands.
At the heart of this transformation is AI's ability to process and analyze vast amounts of data at incredible
speeds.
This capability allows brands to gain deeper insights into their audience's preferences, behaviors,
and emotional triggers.
By leveraging AI driven analytics, storytellers can craft narratives that resonate on a more personal
level with their audience, ensuring that each story is not just heard, but felt and remembered.
Moreover, AI is revolutionizing the creative process itself, from generating initial story ideas to
suggesting plot twists and character developments.
AI tools are becoming indispensable in the storytellers toolkit.
These tools offer a plethora of options for storytellers to explore, ensuring that creativity is never
stifled by a lack of inspiration.
However, it's the human touch that gives these stories their soul.
The empathy, ethics, and emotional intelligence that humans bring to the table are irreplaceable Placeable
and are what ultimately make stories compelling.
The collaboration between AI and humans in storytelling is beautifully exemplified in the case of a
major fashion brand that launched a campaign using AI to analyze current fashion trends and social media
sentiments.
The brand then used these insights to craft a series of stories around sustainability in fashion, a
topic that resonated deeply with their audience.
The campaign was a massive success, not just in terms of engagement, but also in driving a meaningful
conversation around sustainability.
This synergy of AI and human creativity is not without its challenges.
Issues such as data privacy, ethical considerations in AI usage, and the potential loss of jobs to
automation are concerns that need to be addressed.
However, by setting clear ethical guidelines and focusing on a collaborative rather than replacement
model, these challenges can be navigated successfully.
In conclusion, the future of brand storytelling lies in the harmonious blend of AI's analytical power
with the depth of human creativity.
This partnership offers a canvas for storytellers to paint more vivid, engaging, and personalised
narratives than ever before.
As we move forward, the brands that embrace this collaboration will not only lead the way in innovation,
but also in building deeper, more meaningful connections with their audience.

--- How to Apply Behavioral Science to Make Your Stories More Persuasive ---

Understanding the intricacies of human behavior is crucial for crafting stories that not only captivate,
but also persuade.
Today, we dive into how behavioral science can elevate your storytelling, making your narratives not
just engaging, but irresistibly persuasive.
Behavioral science teaches us about the underlying patterns in human decision making and emotion.
By leveraging these insights, storytellers can create narratives that resonate deeply with their audience's
core motivations and biases.
One of the foundational principles we'll explore is the concept of social proof.
Humans are inherently social creatures, influenced heavily by the actions and approvals of others.
When your story demonstrates a character or idea gaining widespread acceptance, you subtly encourage
your audience to align with this acceptance.
It's not just about telling a story, it's about showing how others are already part of the narrative
you're weaving.
Another powerful tool in our arsenal is the principle of scarcity.
The less there is of something, the more valuable it becomes.
This can be applied to storytelling by creating a sense of urgency, or by highlighting the unique,
fleeting opportunity that your story or message represents.
By making your audience feel they might miss out, you significantly increase the likelihood of their
engagement and action.
The rule of reciprocity is also a key player in persuasive storytelling.
This rule suggests that people feel obliged to give back to others who have given to them.
In your narratives, when you offer something of value, be it knowledge, entertainment, or emotional
resonance, your audience is more likely to feel a subconscious urge to reciprocate.
This could mean engaging more deeply with your content, sharing it, or even adopting the ideas you
propose.
Let's not forget the power of the emotional connection.
Behavioral science shows that emotions, not logic, often drive our decisions.
A story that connects emotionally, that makes your audience feel something profound is incredibly persuasive.
Whether it's joy, sadness, anger, or hope.
Tapping into the emotional spectrum can make your narrative irresistible.
In applying these principles, it's crucial to maintain ethical standards.
Persuasion should not cross into manipulation.
The goal is to influence by offering genuine value and making true emotional connections, not by exploiting
psychological vulnerabilities.
In conclusion, understanding and applying the principles of behavioral science can transform your storytelling
by recognizing and leveraging social proof, scarcity, reciprocity, and emotional engagement.
You can create narratives that are not only heard, but felt and acted upon.
Remember, the most persuasive stories are those that resonate on a deeply human level, aligning with
both the conscious and subconscious drivers of our behavior.
As storytellers, we have the power to influence, inspire, and initiate change.
Let's wield that power with both skill and responsibility, crafting stories that not only captivate,
but also contribute positively to the world around us.

--- The Worst 5 Psychological Traps That Can Weaken Your Business Storytelling ---

In the world of business storytelling, captivating your audience is an art.
But there are psychological traps that can weaken your narrative, making it less effective.
Today, we're going to uncover these pitfalls and learn how to avoid them, ensuring your storytelling
remains powerful and persuasive.
Firstly, the trap of complexity often ensnares storytellers in an attempt to sound more knowledgeable.
Some incorporate jargon or complex concepts that confuse the audience.
Remember, simplicity is key.
Your goal is to communicate ideas clearly and concisely.
Stories packed with unnecessary details or technical language can lose the audience's attention and
dilute the impact of your message.
Secondly, the failure to connect emotionally with your audience is another common mistake.
Stories that lack an emotional hook fail to engage listeners on a deeper level.
Emotional connection is the essence of effective storytelling.
It's what transforms a simple narrative into a memorable experience.
Incorporating relatable experiences, challenges, and triumphs helps forge a stronger bond with your
audience.
Third, overlooking the power of a well-structured narrative can lead to disjointed and confusing stories.
A compelling story follows a clear structure.
It has a beginning, a middle, and an end.
This structure guides the audience through the narrative, building anticipation and delivering satisfaction.
Without it, stories can feel aimless and fail to hold the audience's interest.
Fourth, the reliance on data over storytelling is a trap that can make your narrative feel cold and
impersonal.
While data is crucial for backing up your claims, stories that lean too heavily on statistics and figures
can become dry and difficult to relate to.
The art of storytelling lies in balancing data with narrative.
Using stories to bring data to life and make it more meaningful to the audience.
Lastly, the mistake of not tailoring the story to your audience can significantly reduce its effectiveness.
A one size fits all approach to storytelling ignores the unique interests, needs, and cultural backgrounds
of your audience.
Customizing your story to fit the audience not only shows respect, but also increases engagement and
impact.
Understanding who you're speaking to allows you to craft a story that resonates on a personal level.
In conclusion, avoiding these psychological traps in business storytelling is crucial for maintaining
the strength and impact of your narrative.
By focusing on simplicity, emotional connection, narrative structure, the balance between data and
story, and audience customization, you can ensure your storytelling remains engaging and effective.
Remember, the power of a well-told story can move mountains, so harness it wisely to connect with
your audience and leave a lasting impression.

--- Why Cognitive Biases Matter in Storytelling and How to Use Them Wisely ---

Understanding the power of cognitive biases and storytelling can transform the way we communicate,
influence, and connect with our audience.
Cognitive biases the mental shortcuts our brains take to process information play a crucial role in
shaping our perceptions, decisions, and actions.
By leveraging these biases wisely, storytellers can craft messages that resonate deeply and drive engagement.
Let's dive into the concept of the confirmation bias, a tendency to favor information that confirms
our existing beliefs.
When crafting a story, tapping into the audience's pre-existing beliefs can make your narrative more
relatable and convincing.
For instance, if you're presenting a new product to environmentally conscious consumers, highlighting
its eco friendly features aligns with their values, making the message more impactful.
Another powerful bias is the narrative bias, which is our preference for stories over abstract data.
Humans are natural storytellers and listeners, finding it easier to remember and understand information
when it's woven into a compelling narrative.
This is why customer testimonials and case studies are incredibly effective.
They transform abstract data into personal, relatable stories, making the information more memorable
and persuasive.
The bandwagon effect.
A type of cognitive bias where we do something primarily because others are doing it, can also be strategically
used in storytelling.
Showcasing the popularity of an idea or product can persuade others to adopt it.
For example, mentioning the number of users who have switched to your software can encourage others
to follow suit.
Leveraging the bandwagon effect to your advantage.
However, it's crucial to use cognitive biases.
Ethically manipulating biases without considering the audience's best interests can lead to distrust
and damage your credibility.
The key is to use these biases to highlight truths, not to deceive.
For instance, when leveraging the scarcity bias, which makes people value scarce resources more highly,
ensure that the scarcity you're highlighting is genuine.
If you're offering a limited time discount, the offer should be real, not a perpetual sales tactic.
In conclusion, understanding and wisely leveraging cognitive biases and storytelling can significantly
enhance the effectiveness of your communication by aligning your narrative with the audience's pre-existing
beliefs.
Presenting information in story form and ethically, using biases like the bandwagon and scarcity effects,
you can create more engaging, persuasive, and memorable stories.
Remember, the goal is to connect with your audience on a deeper level, using cognitive biases to illuminate
truths, not to manipulate.
This approach not only ensures your storytelling is impactful, but also builds trust and credibility
with your audience.

--- Case Study: How Apple and Coca-Cola Use Psychological Triggers in Branding ---

What makes brands like Apple and Coca-Cola stand out in the crowded marketplace of today?
It's not just about the quality of their products, but also how they connect with their audience on
an emotional level.
Today, we delve into the psychological triggers these brands use to build a loyal customer base, and
how they've mastered the art of branding to become leaders in their respective industries.
Apple has always positioned itself as more than just a tech company.
It's a lifestyle brand that symbolizes innovation, simplicity and elegance.
One key strategy Apple employs is the use of minimalism, not just in product design, but also in marketing.
This simplicity makes Apple products more desirable by making them seem uncluttered and efficient,
appealing to consumers desire for ease and functionality in their lives.
Furthermore, Apple leverages the principle of exclusivity effectively by creating a sense of belonging
to an elite group of users.
They tap into the human need for social status and identity, driving customer loyalty and product demand.
Coca-Cola, on the other hand, uses the power of nostalgia and happiness.
Their marketing campaigns often evoke warm, fuzzy feelings, reminding people of good times, be it
through their holiday ads or the famous Share a Coke campaign.
Coca-Cola's branding goes beyond selling a beverage.
It's about selling an experience, a moment of joy that can be shared with others.
This emotional connection is a powerful psychological trigger, as it ties the product to positive memories
and experiences, encouraging repeat purchases and brand loyalty.
Both Apple and Coca-Cola understand that emotions drive decisions.
They use this knowledge to create compelling narratives that resonate with their audience, making their
products not just items to be bought, but symbols of certain values and lifestyles.
This emotional branding is what sets them apart in their industries, and is a testament to the power
of psychological triggers in marketing.
In conclusion, the success of Apple and Coca-Cola can be attributed to their deep understanding of
human psychology and their ability to leverage emotional triggers in their branding strategies.
They don't just sell products, they sell experiences and values that resonate with their audience,
creating a strong emotional connection that drives loyalty and success.
This approach to branding is a powerful lesson for any business looking to make a lasting impact in
the market.

--- Storytelling vs. Logical Arguments: Which Is More Persuasive? ---

In today's lesson, we delve into the persuasive power of storytelling versus logical arguments.
A crucial consideration for anyone looking to influence, teach, or lead.
At the heart of communication lies the question what moves people more profoundly?
A well-told story or a logically sound argument?
To understand this, let's first break down what each method entails.
Storytelling, in essence, is an art form.
It's about weaving facts, emotions, and experiences into a narrative that resonates with the listener
on a personal level.
It's not just about what is being said, but how it's being said.
The power of storytelling lies in its ability to connect with people emotionally, to transport them
into the narrative, making them feel a part of the journey.
On the other hand, logical arguments appeal to the rational side of our brain.
They are structured, evidence based and follow a clear line of reasoning.
Logical arguments are built on facts, statistics, and direct correlations, aiming to persuade through
the strength of evidence and the soundness of the arguments construction.
Now, which is more persuasive?
The answer isn't straightforward.
It depends on the context and the audience.
For example, in a scientific community, logical arguments might hold more sway given the emphasis
on evidence and data.
However, in a setting where emotional engagement is crucial, such as in marketing or leadership,
storytelling can be significantly more effective.
Consider the impact of storytelling in advertising.
Brands that tell a compelling story not only sell products, but also build a loyal community.
Apple, for instance, excels at this not just selling technology, but a lifestyle and a set of values.
Their narratives often evoke a sense of belonging, innovation, and creativity, connecting on an emotional
level far beyond the specifications of their products.
In leadership, stories can be powerful tools to inspire teams, share visions, and instill values.
Leaders like Martin Luther King Jr knew the power of a story to inspire and mobilize his I Have a Dream
speech is a testament to the power of narrative to drive social change, blending emotional appeal with
visions of a better future.
However, this doesn't diminish the value of logical arguments in policy making, academia, and areas
where decisions have significant consequences.
The clarity and reliability of logical arguments are indispensable.
They provide the foundation upon which sound decisions are made, ensuring that choices are defensible
and based on solid evidence.
In conclusion, the key to persuasive communication lies in understanding your audience and the context.
A blend of both storytelling and logical arguments used judiciously can achieve a powerful effect.
Storytelling can open the heart, and logical arguments can convince the mind.
Together, they form a compelling approach to persuasion capable of moving people not just to think
differently, but to feel and act differently.
This balance is what makes communication truly impactful, bridging the gap between heart and mind,
emotion and reason.

--- How to Craft Engaging Video Stories for Business Success in 2025 ---

In today's digital era, the power of video storytelling in business cannot be overstated.
As we look towards 2025, understanding how to craft engaging video stories is crucial for any business
aiming to succeed and stand out in a crowded marketplace.
Video storytelling isn't just about selling a product or service.
It's about connecting with your audience on a deeper level, sharing values and building trust.
Let's dive into the strategies that will elevate your video storytelling from good to unforgettable.
Firstly, the heart of engaging video storytelling lies in its ability to evoke emotion, whether it's
joy, surprise, or even sadness.
Videos that make us feel something are the ones we remember and share.
To achieve this, start with a clear understanding of your audience.
What are their needs, fears, and aspirations?
Crafting your story around these elements ensures relevance and resonance.
Moreover, authenticity plays a critical role in today's digital storytelling landscape.
Audiences are increasingly savvy and can spot insincerity from miles away.
Authentic stories reflect your brand's true values and mission, fostering a genuine connection with
your viewers.
This means being transparent, showing behind the scenes glimpses, and sharing real stories of people
impacted by your brand.
Another key element is the power of visuals.
The saying a picture is worth a thousand words holds even more truth in the context of video.
Use compelling visuals to complement your narrative, whether it's stunning landscapes, powerful human
expressions, or vibrant animations.
Visuals not only enhance the story, but also make it more memorable.
The pace and rhythm of your video also matter significantly.
In an age of short attention spans, keeping your video dynamic and engaging is essential.
This can be achieved through varied shot compositions, tight editing, and a mix of visuals and text.
However, the pace should always match the tone of your story.
A fast paced video might not suit a heartfelt story of struggle and triumph.
Lastly, the call to action CTA is a crucial component of any business video.
An engaging story is great, but what do you want viewers to do after watching your video?
Whether it's visiting a website, signing up for a newsletter, or sharing the video.
Make your CTA clear and compelling.
It should feel like a natural extension of the story you've just told.
In conclusion, as we move towards 2025, the businesses that will thrive are those that master the
art of video storytelling by focusing on emotion, authenticity, compelling visuals, the right pace,
and a clear call to action, you can create video stories that not only captivate your audience, but
also drive them to action.
Remember, in the crowded digital space, stories that touch hearts and provoke thought are the ones
that leave a lasting impact.
Let's harness the power of video storytelling to create a future where business success and meaningful
connections go hand in hand.

--- The Power of Interactive and Immersive Storytelling (AR, VR, AI) ---

In today's lesson, we're diving into the fascinating world of interactive and immersive storytelling
where augmented reality, AR, virtual reality, VR, and artificial intelligence AI are not just buzzwords,
but powerful tools reshaping how stories are told and experienced.
Imagine stepping into a story, walking alongside characters and influencing the plot with your decisions.
This is the future of storytelling, and it's happening now.
Augmented reality brings stories to life in our everyday environment, overlaying digital information
onto the physical world.
Think of Pokemon Go, which turned city streets into a global game board.
AR has the power to transform educational content, making learning more engaging by adding a layer
of interactivity to the real world.
Virtual reality takes this immersion a step further by placing you inside the story.
It creates a completely digital environment that you can explore in 360 degrees.
For instance, VR experiences have allowed users to walk on Mars or dive into the depths of the ocean,
experiencing stories in ways that were previously impossible.
This technology is revolutionizing training and education, offering hands on experience without the
risks or costs associated with real world training.
Artificial intelligence adds another layer to interactive storytelling by enabling stories to adapt
to the choices of the audience.
I can analyze user decisions and tailor the narrative in real time, creating a personalized story experience.
Imagine a learning module that adapts its difficulty based on how well you're grasping the material,
or a story that changes based on your ethical choices.
Much like the complex narrative paths seen in video games developed by companies like Telltale Games
or Quantic Dream, the combination of AR, VR, and AI is not just changing entertainment, it's revolutionizing
how we learn, train, and even understand the world around us.
Companies and educators are leveraging these technologies to create immersive learning experiences that
increase retention, engagement, and empathy.
For example, medical students can practice surgeries in VR, gaining invaluable experience without
risk to patients.
Meanwhile, AR applications can overlay historical events onto our present day world, allowing students
to experience history as if they were there.
But with great power comes great responsibility.
As we embrace these technologies, we must also consider the ethical implications of immersive storytelling.
Privacy, data security, and the psychological effects of deeply immersive experiences are just a few
of the issues that need to be addressed as we move forward.
In conclusion, the future of storytelling lies in the intersection of AR, VR, and AI.
These technologies offer unparalleled opportunities for engagement, learning, and empathy, allowing
us to experience stories in a way that was once only possible in our imaginations.
As storytellers, educators, and innovators, it's our responsibility to harness these tools ethically
and creatively, pushing the boundaries of what stories can be and how they can impact the world.

--- Case Study: How Netflix’s “Bandersnatch” Transformed Interactive Storytelling ---

Today, we're diving into a fascinating case study that revolutionized the world of interactive storytelling.
Netflix's Bandersnatch.
This groundbreaking film, part of the Black Mirror series, introduced viewers to a new way of engaging
with content where they could make decisions for the main character, leading to multiple story endings.
But how did Bandersnatch change the landscape of storytelling, and what can we learn from its success?
Firstly, Bandersnatch leveraged advanced technology to create a seamless choose your own adventure
experience by using branching narrative technology.
Viewers could make choices that significantly altered the story's outcome.
This level of interactivity was unprecedented in mainstream media and required a complex narrative structure,
as well as sophisticated software to ensure a smooth user experience.
The impact of Bandersnatch on the audience was profound.
It blurred the lines between traditional storytelling and video gaming, creating a hybrid form of entertainment
that appealed to both moviegoers and gamers.
This approach to storytelling opened up new possibilities for audience engagement, making viewers active
participants in the narrative rather than passive consumers.
Moreover, Bandersnatch demonstrated the potential for data collection and analysis in interactive storytelling.
Every choice made by the viewer could be tracked, offering valuable insights into audience preferences
and decision making processes.
This data is invaluable for creators and marketers as it helps tailor content more precisely to audience
tastes.
The success of Bandersnatch also highlighted the importance of narrative flexibility in interactive
storytelling.
The film had to be meticulously planned and scripted to accommodate the various story paths, demonstrating
the need for a new kind of storytelling skill set.
Writers and directors now need to think in multiple dimensions, anticipating audience choices and weaving
them into a cohesive narrative.
Finally, Bandersnatch set a precedent for future content creation, showing that audiences are ready
for and excited about interactive storytelling.
It has paved the way for new projects that blend interactivity, technology, and narrative in innovative
ways as we look to the future.
The lessons learned from Bandersnatch will undoubtedly influence how stories are told and experienced
across different media.
In conclusion, Netflix's Bandersnatch was not just a film, it was a groundbreaking experiment in interactive
storytelling.
It challenged traditional narratives, engaged audiences in novel ways, and opened up new possibilities
for content creation.
As storytellers and content creators, understanding the impact of Bandersnatch is crucial for anyone
looking to innovate in the digital age.
By embracing technology and interactivity, we can create immersive and engaging experiences that captivate
audiences, and we've only just begun to explore.

--- Top 5 Video Storytelling Strategies That Drive Audience Engagement ---

In today's lesson, we delve into the captivating world of video storytelling, a powerful tool that
has transformed the way we engage with our audience.
The essence of compelling storytelling lies in its ability to evoke emotions, convey messages, and
connect with viewers on a profound level.
As we navigate through the top five video storytelling strategies, we uncover the secrets to captivating
your audience and driving unparalleled engagement.
Firstly, the art of storytelling begins with understanding your audience, knowing who they are, what
they value, and the challenges they face allows storytellers to craft messages that resonate deeply.
Tailoring content to reflect the audience's interests and needs ensures that each video feels personal
and relevant, fostering a stronger connection and encouraging viewers to invest their time and attention.
Next, we explore the significance of narrative structure.
Every memorable story follows a clear, cohesive structure that guides the viewer through a journey
by establishing a compelling beginning that introduces the conflict or challenge.
A middle that showcases the journey or attempts at resolution, and an end that provides closure or
calls to action.
Storytellers create a sense of completeness and satisfaction for the viewer.
This structure not only keeps the audience engaged, but also enhances the overall impact of the message.
Emotional connection is the cornerstone of effective video storytelling.
Stories that evoke emotions whether joy, empathy, curiosity, or surprise, leave a lasting impression
on the viewer.
By incorporating real life examples, testimonials, or relatable scenarios, storytellers can forge
a powerful emotional bond with their audience, making the message more memorable and impactful.
Furthermore, the power of visuals cannot be overstated.
In a world where attention spans are increasingly short, visually striking and creative elements can
captivate viewers from the first moment.
High quality visuals, compelling cinematography, and thoughtful animation can elevate the storytelling
Experience making the message not only more engaging, but also more likely to be shared and remembered.
Lastly, authenticity plays a critical role in video storytelling.
In an era of information overload, audiences crave genuine, transparent, and honest content.
Stories that reflect real experiences, acknowledge vulnerabilities, and showcase genuine emotions
stand out.
Authentic storytelling builds trust and credibility, encouraging viewers to engage more deeply with
the content and the messenger.
In conclusion, mastering video storytelling requires a deep understanding of your audience, a clear
narrative structure, the ability to evoke emotions, the use of compelling visuals, and a commitment
to authenticity.
By integrating these strategies, storytellers can create engaging and impactful videos that not only
capture the attention of their audience, but also inspire action and change.
As we look towards the future, the power of video storytelling will continue to grow, offering endless
possibilities for those ready to harness its potential.

--- Why Video Will Dominate the Future of Business Storytelling ---

In today's digital age, video has emerged as the most powerful medium for business storytelling, poised
to dominate the landscape in the years ahead.
Why, you might ask?
The answer lies in the unique ability of video to engage, inform and inspire audiences in ways that
text and images alone cannot.
Let's dive into the reasons behind the ascendance of video storytelling and its implications for businesses.
Firstly, the human brain processes visuals 60,000 times faster than text.
This means that when you watch a video, you can absorb information more quickly and retain it longer
than if you were reading the same content.
Video combines visuals, sound and motion to create a multi-sensory experience, making complex information
more digestible and engaging.
This is particularly crucial in an era where attention spans are dwindling and businesses need to convey
their messages swiftly and effectively.
Moreover, the rise of social media platforms has supercharged the reach and impact of video content.
Platforms like YouTube, Instagram and TikTok have billions of active users offering unprecedented opportunities
for businesses to connect with global audiences.
Videos on these platforms can go viral, reaching millions of viewers overnight, which is a level of
exposure that traditional marketing channels struggle to achieve.
Another key factor is the emotional power of video storytelling.
Videos can evoke a wide range of emotions, from joy and laughter to empathy and action by showcasing
real people, real stories and genuine reactions.
This emotional connection builds trust and loyalty between a brand and its audience, turning viewers
into advocates and customers into community members.
The technological advancements in video production and distribution have also lowered barriers to entry.
High quality videos can now be produced with smartphones and affordable editing software, making video
storytelling accessible to businesses of all sizes.
Additionally, AI and data analytics have made it easier to personalize video content, ensuring that
the right messages reach the right audiences at the right time.
In conclusion, the future of business storytelling belongs to video.
Its ability to convey complex information quickly, connect emotionally with audiences, and achieve
widespread virality makes it an indispensable tool in the modern marketer's arsenal.
As we look ahead, businesses that harness the power of video storytelling will not only stand out,
but also build deeper connections with their audiences.
Driving engagement and growth in the digital age.
Embracing video is not just about keeping up with trends, it's about leveraging the most compelling
form of communication we have today to tell stories that resonate, inspire and motivate.

--- How to Transform Data into a Powerful Narrative for Any Audience ---

In today's lesson, we delve into the art of transforming data into compelling narratives that captivate
any audience.
The ability to tell a story with data is not just a skill, but a necessity in the information age.
It allows us to make sense of numbers and statistics, turning them into actionable insights that can
influence decisions and drive change.
Let's begin by understanding that every piece of data holds a story waiting to be told, whether it's
market trends, user behavior, or financial forecasts.
The key lies in identifying the narrative arc hidden within the data.
To craft a powerful narrative, start by asking the right questions.
What story does the data want to tell?
What are the key points that your audience needs to understand?
From there, it's about building a structure that guides your audience through the information in a
way that is both logical and engaging.
This involves setting the scene with an introduction that captures attention, presenting the data in
a clear and concise manner.
And then leading to a conclusion that drives home the main message.
Consider the story of a small startup that leveraged user behavior data to pivot their product strategy,
resulting in exponential growth.
This narrative not only showcases the power of data driven decision making, but also humanizes the
data, making it relatable to the audience.
By focusing on the human element, the story of numbers becomes a tale of challenge, adaptation, and
success.
Visualization plays a crucial role in data storytelling.
A well-designed chart or graph can convey complex information at a glance, making it easier for the
audience to grasp the narrative.
However, the key is to use visual aids that enhance the story rather than distract from it.
Choose simplicity over complexity, ensuring that each visual element serves a purpose in advancing
the narrative.
Ethics and accuracy are the foundation of any data narrative.
In an era where misinformation can spread quickly, it's crucial to present data with integrity.
This means being transparent about sources, methodologies, and the limitations of your data.
It's about building trust with your audience by being honest about what the data shows, and equally
important, what it doesn't show.
In conclusion, transforming data into a narrative is an art form that blends analytics with storytelling.
It's about going beyond the numbers to uncover the human stories they represent.
By following these principles, you can turn data into a powerful tool that informs, persuades, and
inspires.
Remember, the goal is not just to present data, but to tell a story that resonates with your audience,
driving them to action.
Whether you're a marketer, a business leader, or a data scientist, mastering this skill will enable
you to communicate more effectively in an increasingly data driven world.

--- The 5 Most Common Data Storytelling Mistakes and How to Avoid Them ---

What are the key factors that drive technological advancements in the automotive industry, and how
do they shape the future of transportation?
Let's explore the exciting innovations that are revolutionizing the way we travel.
First and foremost, electric vehicles.
EVs are leading the charge towards a more sustainable future with concerns about climate change and
air pollution.
The shift towards EVs offers a cleaner and greener alternative to traditional combustion engine vehicles.
The development of advanced battery technology has significantly increased the range and efficiency
of EVs, making them more practical for daily use.
Furthermore, autonomous driving technology is reshaping the automotive landscape.
From advanced driver assistance systems to fully autonomous vehicles, the race towards self-driving
cars is driven by the promise of safer roads, reduced accidents, and increased mobility for all.
Companies like Tesla, Waymo and GM are at the forefront of this revolution, investing heavily in research
and development to make autonomous driving a reality.
Connectivity is another key driver of innovation in the automotive industry.
The rise of the Internet of Things IoT has enabled cars to communicate with each other, with infrastructure
and with other devices, creating a seamless and integrated transportation ecosystem.
This connectivity not only enhances the driving experience, but also improves safety and efficiency
on the roads.
Moreover, sustainability is a crucial factor shaping the future of transportation.
From the use of recycled materials in vehicle manufacturing to the development of biofuels and hydrogen
fuel cells, automakers are exploring alternative ways to reduce the environmental impact of their products.
The concept of a circular economy, where resources are reused and recycled, is gaining traction in
the automotive industry, promoting a more sustainable approach to production and consumption.
Lastly, data analytics and artificial intelligence.
Are driving innovation in vehicle design, production and maintenance.
The ability to collect and analyze vast amounts of data enables car manufacturers to optimize performance,
predict maintenance needs, and personalize the driving experience for customers.
AI powered systems are revolutionizing everything from predictive maintenance to personalized infotainment
systems, making cars smarter and more efficient.
In conclusion, the automotive industry is experiencing a technological revolution driven by electric
vehicles, autonomous driving, connectivity, sustainability and data analytics.
These key factors are shaping the future of transportation, leading to safer, more sustainable and
more efficient ways of getting from point A to point B.
Embracing these innovations will not only transform the way we travel, but also pave the way for a
greener and more connected future.

--- Case Study: How Google and Facebook Use Data Storytelling to Influence Decisions ---

In today's lesson, we delve into the compelling world of data storytelling, focusing on how tech giants
like Google and Facebook leverage this powerful tool to influence decisions.
Data storytelling is not just about presenting numbers, it's about weaving those numbers into a narrative
that informs, persuades, and inspires action.
Let's begin by understanding the essence of data storytelling.
It combines data visualization with narrative techniques to make complex information more accessible
and engaging.
Google, known for its vast data repositories, excels in data storytelling by making abstract data
tangible.
For instance, Google Trends visualizes real time search data to reveal the stories behind what people
are searching for globally.
This not only provides insights into public interest and behavior, but also helps businesses and journalists
to tap into current trends for decision making and storytelling.
Similarly, Facebook utilizes data storytelling to demonstrate the impact of its advertising platform
by presenting case studies of businesses that have achieved significant growth through Facebook ads.
They turn abstract data into relatable success stories.
This approach not only showcases the platform's capabilities, but also serves as a powerful tool for
persuading more businesses to invest in Facebook advertising.
Both companies use data storytelling to bridge the gap between complex data sets and actionable insights.
They transform raw data into narratives that highlight trends, explain phenomena, and predict future
behaviors.
This not only enhances decision making, but also strengthens their positions as leaders in technology
and innovation.
Furthermore, data storytelling is pivotal for internal decision making.
Google and Facebook analyze vast amounts of data from their operations to optimize products, improve
user experience, and drive strategic planning.
By narrating the data, they can align teams around shared goals and foster a data driven culture within
the organization.
In conclusion, data storytelling is a critical skill in today's data rich environment.
Google and Facebook exemplify how effectively harnessing this skill can influence decisions, shape
strategies, and drive success.
As we move forward, the ability to tell compelling stories with data will become even more crucial
for businesses and individuals alike to cut through the noise and highlight insights and inspire action.
Let's take inspiration from these tech giants and start leveraging the power of data storytelling in
our endeavors.

--- How to Make Data-Heavy Presentations More Engaging and Understandable ---

In today's lesson, we're diving into the art of making data heavy presentations, not just engaging,
but also easily understandable.
Imagine you're about to present a complex set of data to an audience that might not share your expertise
or enthusiasm for numbers.
The challenge to keep them hooked, informed, and enlightened without overwhelming them.
Let's break down how to achieve this.
First, storytelling is your secret weapon.
Even the driest data comes alive when woven into a compelling narrative.
Start by identifying the core message or insight your data reveals.
This becomes the plot of your story.
For instance, if your data shows a dramatic increase in renewable energy usage over the last decade,
your narrative might focus on the journey towards a greener planet.
This approach transforms numbers into a storyline that resonates on a human level.
Visualization plays a crucial role in demystifying complex data.
A well-designed chart or graph can convey at a glance what paragraphs of text or rows of numbers cannot
use colors and shapes wisely to highlight key trends and patterns.
Tools like Tableau or Microsoft Power BI can help you create visuals that are not only informative,
but also aesthetically pleasing.
Remember, your goal is to make your audience understand the significance of the data without having
to dig through it.
Interactivity adds a layer of engagement that static slides lack.
Whenever possible, incorporate interactive elements into your presentation.
This could be as simple as a live poll to gauge audience opinions, or as sophisticated as an interactive
data dashboard that lets viewers explore different facets of your data.
This approach not only keeps your audience engaged, but also allows them to personalize the information
they receive.
Making the data more relevant and memorable.
Simplification is key.
Resist the temptation to showcase every data point you've gathered.
Focus on what's most important for your audience to know.
Use analogies and metaphors to explain complex concepts.
For example, comparing the growth of internet users to the population of a country can help put figures
into perspective.
Your aim is to strip away the complexity and present the essence of the data in an understandable and
relatable way.
Lastly, practice empathy.
Put yourself in your audience's shoes.
What might they find confusing or boring?
How can you make the data relevant to their lives or interests?
Tailoring your presentation to your audience's needs and expectations ensures that your message is not
just heard, but also felt.
In conclusion, transforming data heavy presentations into engaging, understandable narratives requires
storytelling, visualisation, interactivity, simplification, and empathy.
By focusing on these elements, you can turn a potentially daunting data presentation into an insightful
and memorable experience for your audience.
Remember, the goal is not just to present data, but to illuminate the story it tells and the impact
it has on the world.

--- The Future of Data Storytelling in AI-Powered Business Intelligence ---

In today's lesson, we delve into the transformative power of data storytelling within the realm of
AI powered business intelligence.
As we navigate through this digital era, the ability to not only gather but also interpret and communicate
data insights effectively has become crucial for businesses across the globe.
Data storytelling merges the science of data analytics with the art of storytelling, offering a compelling
way to convey complex information in an understandable and engaging manner.
At the heart of this revolution lies advanced analytics and artificial intelligence.
These technologies have significantly expanded our capabilities to analyze vast data sets, uncovering
patterns and insights that were previously inaccessible.
AI algorithms can now predict trends, identify anomalies, and even suggest actionable strategies,
transforming raw data into a narrative that informs decision making processes.
Consider, for example, how retail giants like Amazon utilize data storytelling by analyzing customer
behavior, purchase histories, and browsing patterns.
They can craft personalized shopping experiences for millions of users.
This not only enhances customer satisfaction, but also boosts sales and customer loyalty.
Such is the power of effective data storytelling, it bridges the gap between data scientists and business
stakeholders, ensuring that insights lead to informed decisions and strategic actions.
Moreover, the ethical dimension of data storytelling cannot be overstressed in an age where data privacy
and security are paramount.
Storytellers must navigate the fine line between personalization and intrusion.
Ethical data storytelling respects privacy, ensures transparency, and promotes trust, laying a solid
foundation for customer relationships in the digital age.
As we look to the future, the role of data storytelling in business intelligence is set to grow exponentially.
With the advent of more sophisticated AI models and analytics tools, businesses will have the opportunity
to delve deeper into their data, uncovering insights that can drive innovation, efficiency, and growth.
However, the success of these endeavors will largely depend on our ability to tell compelling stories
with data, transforming numbers and figures into narratives that inspire action and drive change.
In conclusion, data storytelling in the context of AI powered business intelligence is not just about
presenting data, it's about weaving a narrative that connects with audiences on a deeper level, driving
understanding, engagement, and decision making.
As we move forward, mastering this art will be key to unlocking the full potential of data in shaping
the future of business.

--- Why Humor is a Secret Weapon for Making Stories More Engaging ---

Why is humor often considered a secret weapon in storytelling, and how can it make your narratives
more engaging?
Today, we'll delve into the mechanics of humor and storytelling, its psychological impact on audiences,
and practical ways to weave it into your stories for maximum effect.
Humor, by its very nature, is a powerful tool for breaking down barriers and building a connection
with your audience.
It's not just about making people laugh, it's about creating a shared experience that resonates on
a personal level.
When used effectively in storytelling, humor can make complex ideas more accessible, lighten the mood
in tense situations, and make your message more memorable.
The psychological impact of humor is profound.
It triggers the release of endorphins, the body's natural feel good chemicals, promoting a sense of
well-being and temporarily relieving pain.
This biological response can create a positive association with the stories you tell, making your audience
more receptive to your message.
Furthermore, humor can enhance retention.
A story that makes us laugh is a story we're likely to remember and share with others.
But how do you incorporate humor into your storytelling?
First, understand your audience.
What makes them laugh?
Humor is subjective, and what works for one group may not work for another.
it's crucial to know the preferences and boundaries of your audience to avoid missteps.
Next, use relatable situations and characters.
Humor often springs from recognition when your audience sees themselves in your story.
The laughter that follows is both genuine and bonding.
Also, consider timing and pacing.
The best comedic storytellers know how to deliver a punchline at just the right moment, and how to
use pauses effectively to build anticipation and enhance the humorous effect.
Let's look at an example from the corporate world.
Imagine a presentation on workplace safety, typically a dry subject, by introducing a character who
comically ignores all the safety protocols only to face increasingly absurd consequences.
You can highlight the importance of following safety guidelines while keeping your audience engaged
and entertained.
In conclusion, humor is not just an embellishment for stories.
It's a strategic tool that, when wielded with care and understanding, can make your narratives more
engaging, memorable, and impactful by connecting with your audience on an emotional level.
Humor can transform your storytelling, making your messages not just heard, but felt and remembered.
Let's embrace the power of humor to enrich our storytelling and engage our audiences in a profound and
lasting way.

--- Top 5 Comedy Techniques That Work in Business Presentations ---

In today's fast paced business world, humor has emerged as a powerful tool to capture attention, build
rapport, and make messages memorable.
Let's dive into the top five comedy techniques that can elevate your business presentations and make
them stand out.
To start storytelling with a twist is a technique that never fails to engage.
By weaving your business message into a story and then adding an unexpected, humorous twist.
You can captivate your audience right from the beginning.
This approach not only makes your presentation enjoyable, but also helps in making your key points
more memorable.
Consider the story of a startup that aimed to revolutionize the industry, but ended up creating a hilarious
series of product fails before finding success.
Such stories, with their ups and downs, keep the audience on the edge of their seats, eager to hear
what happens next.
Next.
Self-deprecation, when used wisely, can be incredibly effective.
It's a way of showing your audience that you're human and can laugh at yourself, which in turn makes
you more relatable and likable.
For instance, sharing a personal anecdote about your own professional blunders, and what you learned
from them can help break the ice and build a connection with your audience.
However, it's crucial to strike the right balance to ensure it's taken in good humor and doesn't undermine
your credibility.
The Rule of Three is another powerful comedy technique.
This involves presenting two consecutive items and then surprising the audience with the third.
For example, you might list two serious business strategies, followed by a third, unexpectedly humorous
one.
This pattern disrupts the audience's expectations and can generate a laugh, making your presentation
more engaging.
Playful exaggeration is yet another tool in the comedy arsenal.
Exaggerating the challenges or outcomes of a business scenario can highlight your point in a humorous
way, making the mundane memorable.
Imagine describing a day when everything went wrong in the office with such exaggerated misery that
it becomes funny.
This technique not only lightens the mood, but also makes your message more impactful.
Lastly, clever use of visuals can significantly enhanced the humor in your presentation.
Whether it's a funny meme that ties back to your message.
A comic strip that illustrates a point, or a humorous GIF that breaks up the monotony of a slide deck,
visuals can add a layer of humor that words alone may not achieve.
They say a picture is worth a thousand words, and in the context of a humorous presentation, the right
image can be worth a thousand laughs.
In conclusion, integrating comedy into your business presentations can transform them from mundane
to memorable, from dull to delightful by employing storytelling with a twist self-deprecation, the
Rule of Three playful exaggeration and clever visuals, you can engage your audience, make your message
stick, and perhaps most importantly, make the experience enjoyable for both you and your audience.
Remember, humor is a powerful tool, but its success lies in its execution.
So practice your delivery.
Know your audience, and don't be afraid to add a personal touch with these comedy techniques.
You're well on your way to delivering presentations that not only inform and inspire, but also entertain.

--- How Cultural Differences Affect the Use of Humor in Storytelling ---

Understanding how cultural differences shape the use of humor and storytelling is crucial for anyone
looking to connect with a global audience.
Humor, an essential tool in engaging and captivating audiences, varies significantly across cultures.
This variation stems from differences in societal norms, values, and historical contexts.
Let's delve into why a joke that lands well in one culture might fall flat in another, and how you
can navigate these differences to enhance your storytelling skills.
At the heart of humor lies the concept of relatability.
What people find funny often reflects their everyday experiences, beliefs, and the societal norms
they adhere to.
For instance, self-deprecating humor is well received in British culture, where modesty and humility
are valued.
This form of humor, which involves poking fun at oneself, is seen as a way to appear more relatable
and down to earth.
Contrast this with American humor, which often leans towards a more optimistic and outward looking
comedic style celebrating success and achievement.
Cultural taboos also play a significant role in shaping humor.
Every culture has its own set of topics that are considered off limits or sensitive in some Middle Eastern
cultures.
Jokes about religion or politics can be risky due to the potential for offense.
Similarly, East Asian cultures, which value harmony and respect, might find humor that involves sarcasm
or ridicule to be inappropriate.
Understanding these boundaries is key to ensuring that your humor does not alienate or offend your audience.
Timing and delivery are another aspect where cultural differences come into play.
The pace at which a joke is delivered and the timing of the punchline can significantly impact its effectiveness.
Japanese humor, for example, often involves a slower build up and might include elements of silence,
which is a stark contrast to the rapid fire delivery common in American stand up comedy.
So how can you use this knowledge to your advantage in storytelling?
The first step is to research and understand your audience.
This means going beyond superficial stereotypes and gaining a deep understanding of their cultural background,
Ground values and what they hold dear.
When in doubt, opt for universal themes of humor that transcend cultural boundaries, such as situational
comedy or physical humor, which rely on common human experiences.
Additionally, testing your material with a diverse audience before a major presentation or storytelling
session can provide valuable insights into what works and what doesn't.
This feedback loop is crucial for refining your approach and ensuring that your humor resonates with
your audience, regardless of their cultural background.
In conclusion, the use of humor and storytelling is a powerful tool to connect with your audience,
evoke emotions, and make your message memorable.
However, its effectiveness is deeply influenced by cultural differences.
By being mindful of these differences and taking the time to understand your audience, you can craft
stories that are not only funny, but also respectful and inclusive.
This approach will not only enhance your storytelling skills, but also help you build stronger, more
meaningful connections with people from around the world.

--- Case Study: How Comedians Use Storytelling Techniques to Captivate Audiences ---

What makes a story so captivating that it can hold an audience's attention from start to finish?
Today, we delve into the world of comedy to uncover the storytelling techniques comedians use to engage
and entertain.
Comedians are master storytellers, employing a range of strategies to connect with their audience,
evoke emotions, and deliver their message effectively.
At the heart of a comedian's storytelling is the structure.
A well crafted joke, much like a story has a clear beginning, middle, and end.
The setup introduces the audience to the scenario, creating expectations.
The progression builds tension, and the punchline delivers an unexpected twist, often leading to laughter.
This structure keeps the audience engaged, eager to see where the story leads.
Timing is another crucial element.
Comedians know exactly when to pause for effect, when to speed up their delivery, and when to deliver
the punchline.
This manipulation of timing helps to build anticipation, control the audience's reactions, and maximize
the impact of the joke.
Relatability plays a significant role in comedy.
Comedians often draw from personal experiences or common societal observations, making their stories
resonate with the audience.
This connection is vital when the audience can see themselves in the story, their engagement deepens
and the impact of the punchline Intensifies.
Another technique is the use of vivid imagery and expressive language.
Comedians paint pictures with their words, making their stories more immersive and memorable.
By describing scenarios in detail, they pull the audience into the story, making the experience more
personal and the humor more impactful.
Comedians also master the art of surprise.
They lead the audience down a path, setting up expectations, then swiftly take a turn, defying those
expectations with the punchline.
This element of surprise is key to capturing and keeping the audience's attention.
Lastly, comedians often employ callbacks referring back to earlier jokes or stories within their set.
This technique reinforces the narrative, creating a sense of continuity and cohesiveness throughout
their performance.
It rewards the audience's attention, enhancing their overall experience.
In conclusion, comedians are adept storytellers who utilize structure, timing, relatability, vivid
imagery, surprise, and callbacks to captivate and entertain their audience.
These techniques not only make their performances memorable, but also offer valuable insights into
the art of storytelling.
By analyzing and applying these strategies, anyone can enhance their ability to engage and influence
their audience, whether on stage, in a boardroom, or during a casual conversation.

--- The Do’s and Don’ts of Using Humor in Business and Leadership Communication ---

Humor can be a powerful tool in business and leadership communication, offering a unique way to connect
with audiences, break down barriers, and make complex topics more accessible.
However, it's a double edged sword that requires careful handling to ensure it enhances your message
rather than detracts from it.
Today, we'll navigate the do's and don'ts of using humor in professional settings, drawing from real
world examples to illustrate key points.
Firstly, understanding your audience is crucial when incorporating humor into your communication.
What may be hilarious to one group could fall flat or even offend another.
Tailoring your humor to the cultural, professional, and demographic backgrounds of your audience can
prevent misunderstandings and ensure your message is well received.
For instance, a lighthearted joke about technology glitches might resonate in a tech industry presentation,
but could be less appropriate in a more formal financial briefing.
Moreover, the context in which you're speaking plays a significant role in determining the appropriateness
of humor.
A keynote speech at a conference allows for more levity compared to a sensitive internal meeting discussing
layoffs or financial losses.
Recognizing the mood and setting can guide you in deciding when humor is appropriate, and when it's
best to maintain a more serious tone.
It's also essential to consider the purpose of your humor when used effectively.
Humor can underscore a point.
Make your message more memorable, or ease tension during difficult conversations.
However, humor should never be at the expense of clarity or respect.
Making a joke that belittles others, uses stereotypes or diverts attention away from critical issues
can quickly undermine your credibility and authority as a leader.
Real world examples of humor done right in business contexts often involve self-deprecation or lighthearted
hearted anecdotes that illustrate a point without offending.
For example, a CEO joking about their own early career mistakes during a talk on resilience can humanize
them and make their message more relatable.
Conversely, jokes that rely on sarcasm, ridicule, or sensitive topics can alienate your audience
and have lasting negative impacts on your professional relationships.
In conclusion, when used judiciously, humor can be an effective tool to enhance your business and
leadership communication.
It requires a keen understanding of your audience and awareness of the context, and a clear purpose
that aligns with your overall message.
By following these guidelines, you can leverage humor to connect with your audience, make your communication
more engaging and ultimately more impactful.
Remember, the goal of using humor should always be to add value to your communication, not to detract
from the professionalism and seriousness of your message.

--- How to Adapt Your Storytelling for International and Cross-Cultural Teams ---

In today's lesson, we'll dive into how to adapt your storytelling for international and cross-cultural
teams, a skill that's becoming increasingly vital in our globalized world.
As we navigate through this topic, keep in mind that effective communication is the cornerstone of
successful collaboration across different cultures.
Understanding cultural nuances is the first step in adapting your storytelling.
Every culture has its unique values, traditions, and communication styles.
For instance, while a straightforward approach might be appreciated in some Western cultures, in many
Asian cultures, indirect communication is often preferred to maintain harmony and respect.
Recognizing these differences allows you to tailor your stories in a way that resonates with your audience,
ensuring your message is not only heard, but also felt on a deeper level.
Empathy plays a crucial role in cross-cultural storytelling.
It's about more than just understanding where your audience comes from.
It's about connecting with them on an emotional level.
This requires active listening, openness, and the willingness to learn from the perspectives of others.
By fostering an empathetic mindset, you create stories that bridge gaps and build trust, making your
message more impactful.
Another key aspect is the use of universal themes and emotions in your stories.
Despite our diverse backgrounds, certain experiences and emotions are universal.
Themes like ambition, resilience and the quest for belonging resonate across cultures.
Leveraging these universal elements in your storytelling can help transcend cultural barriers, making
your stories more relatable and engaging for international teams.
Language and translation also deserve attention.
When your audience includes non-native speakers, simplicity becomes your ally.
Avoid jargon, idioms, and cultural references that might not translate well when necessary.
Work with professional translators to ensure your story maintains its essence across languages.
This careful consideration ensures that everyone, regardless of their linguistic background, can grasp
and connect with your narrative.
Let's consider a case study of a global tech company that successfully adapted its storytelling to foster
a more inclusive culture.
They launched a series of storytelling workshops focused on understanding cultural contexts, and encouraged
employees from different regions to share their stories.
This initiative not only improved internal communication, but also led to more culturally nuanced marketing
campaigns, significantly increasing their global reach and customer engagement.
In conclusion, adapting your storytelling for international and cross-cultural teams is a multifaceted
process that requires cultural sensitivity, empathy, the use of universal themes, and careful language
choices.
By embracing these strategies, you can create stories that resonate on a global scale, fostering stronger
connections and collaboration across cultures.
Remember, in our increasingly interconnected world, the ability to communicate effectively across
cultural divides is not just an asset, it's a necessity.

--- Case Study: How Global Companies Use Storytelling to Connect Across Borders ---

In today's global market, storytelling has emerged as a powerful tool for companies to connect with
audiences across different cultures and geographies.
Let's dive into how multinational corporations leverage storytelling to foster a sense of unity, engage
diverse audiences, and drive their global brand forward.
At the heart of effective global storytelling is the ability to craft messages that resonate universally
while respecting cultural nuances.
Take, for example, a leading technology firm that launched a series of advertisements focusing on
how their products help people overcome challenges and achieve their dreams.
These stories, while rooted in local cultures, highlighted universal themes of ambition, perseverance,
and innovation, creating a global appeal.
Another aspect is the strategic use of digital platforms to share these stories.
With the rise of social media, companies have unparalleled access to global audiences.
However, it's not just about broadcasting content, it's about engaging in conversations.
Successful companies listen to their audience's stories and experiences, integrating these insights
into their narrative to build stronger, more authentic connections.
Language and translation play critical roles in global storytelling.
It's not enough to simply translate content.
Messages must be localized to reflect local idioms, humor, and values.
This requires deep cultural understanding and sensitivity.
For instance, a global beverage company adapted its advertising campaigns to fit local markets using
regional celebrities and culturally relevant messages to engage customers in different countries.
Ethical storytelling is paramount, especially when addressing sensitive issues.
Companies must navigate cultural differences with care, ensuring their stories do not inadvertently
perpetuate stereotypes or cause offence.
This involves a commitment to diversity and inclusion, both in the stories told and the voices that
tell them.
By showcasing a wide range of perspectives and experiences, companies can foster a more inclusive global
brand identity.
In conclusion, storytelling is a potent tool for global companies aiming to connect with diverse audiences
by focusing on universal themes, leveraging digital platforms for engagement, localizing content,
and committing to ethical storytelling.
Companies can create powerful narratives that resonate across borders.
This not only enhances their brand, but also builds deeper, more meaningful connections with consumers
around the world.
Through storytelling, companies can navigate the complexities of the global market, turning cultural
diversity into a strategic advantage.

--- Top 5 Tips for Overcoming Language Barriers in Business Storytelling ---

In today's global business environment, overcoming language barriers is crucial for effective storytelling
and communication.
Engaging with diverse audiences requires not just fluency in a language, but also an understanding
of cultural nuances.
Let's dive into the top five tips for transcending these barriers and enhancing your storytelling in
business.
Firstly, leveraging technology offers a straightforward solution to language barriers.
Tools like real time translation apps and language learning platforms can bridge communication gaps
instantly.
Imagine presenting to a global audience where your speech is translated in real time, making your story
accessible to everyone, regardless of their native language.
This not only broadens your reach, but also fosters inclusivity.
Secondly, visual storytelling transcends linguistic limitations.
A well crafted infographic or a compelling video can convey your message without the need for words.
Consider how global brands use visuals in their advertising.
They tell a story that is universally understood, connecting with emotions and cultural touchpoints
that go beyond language.
Thirdly, simplicity is key.
When language barriers exist, the use of simple, clear language becomes paramount.
Avoid jargon, idioms, and complex sentence structures that might be difficult for non-native speakers
to understand.
this approach ensures that your message is conveyed clearly and effectively without misunderstandings.
Fourthly, cultural sensitivity is essential for effective storytelling across languages.
Understanding cultural references, humor, and taboos can prevent misinterpretations and foster a deeper
connection with your audience.
For instance, a story that resonates with one culture might be irrelevant or even offensive to another.
Research and empathy are vital tools in adapting your storytelling to be culturally appropriate and
engaging.
Lastly, active listening and feedback loops are crucial in overcoming language barriers.
Encouraging questions and clarifications not only ensures that your message has been understood, but
also demonstrates respect for your audience's perspective.
This two way communication builds trust and rapport, making your storytelling more impactful.
In conclusion, overcoming language barriers in business storytelling is not just about translating
words, but also about bridging cultural differences and connecting with audiences on an emotional level.
By leveraging technology, embracing visual storytelling, simplifying language, practicing cultural
sensitivity, and fostering active engagement, you can tell stories that resonate across linguistic
and cultural divides, making your message truly global.

--- Why Understanding Cultural Context is Key to Storytelling Success ---

In today's interconnected world, understanding cultural context is not just beneficial, it's essential
for storytelling success.
Stories have the power to bridge divides, foster empathy, and create a shared sense of humanity.
But to truly resonate with a diverse audience, a storyteller must navigate the complex web of cultural
nuances, traditions, and values that shape individual perspectives.
Consider the global success of films like parasite from South Korea or Coco from the United States.
What made these stories transcend their local origins and capture the hearts of people worldwide?
The answer lies in their universal themes family, ambition, love, loss presented through a culturally
specific lens.
These narratives invite viewers into a new world, offering a glimpse of the familiar through an unfamiliar
context.
This juxtaposition is the essence of compelling storytelling.
But cultural context is not just about global storytelling.
It's equally important in local narratives, marketing campaigns, and even personal anecdotes shared
in the workplace.
Every audience brings its own set of cultural references, biases, and expectations.
A story that delights one group may offend another, if not carefully crafted with an understanding
of these differences.
For instance, humor often does not translate well across cultures due to differing norms and values.
A joke that is considered harmless and funny in one culture might be seen as offensive or insensitive
in another.
This is where the role of cultural intelligence comes into play.
A storyteller's ability to adapt and tailor their narrative to respect and engage with different cultural
norms.
Moreover, with the rise of digital platforms, stories can quickly reach a global audience.
This amplifies the need for cultural sensitivity and awareness.
Storytellers must now consider not only the cultural context of their intended audience, but also the
potential global reach of their narratives.
It's a challenging but rewarding endeavor, as stories that successfully navigate this complexity can
achieve unprecedented levels of engagement and impact.
In conclusion, understanding and integrating cultural context into storytelling is more than a skill.
It's a necessity in today's globalized world.
It requires a deep appreciation of diversity, an openness to learning, and an ongoing commitment to
empathy.
By embracing these principles, storytellers can create narratives that not only entertain, but also
enlighten, connecting hearts and minds across the vast tapestry of human experience.

--- The Role of Localized Storytelling in Business Growth and Expansion ---

In today's global market, the art of storytelling has become a pivotal tool for businesses aiming to
expand and grow.
But not just any storytelling, localised storytelling holds the key to unlocking unprecedented levels
of engagement and connection with diverse audiences.
Let's dive into why this strategy is essential for businesses looking to make a mark on the global stage,
and how it can be effectively implemented.
Localised storytelling is more than just translating content into different languages.
It's about adapting your narrative to resonate with the cultural nuances, values and expectations of
a specific region.
This approach ensures that your message is not only understood, but also appreciated and embraced by
local audiences.
For instance, a campaign that works wonders in the United States might not strike the same chord in
Japan without a thoughtful localization strategy that considers the unique Japanese culture and consumer
behavior.
One of the most compelling examples of localized storytelling done right comes from the global giant
Coca-Cola.
Their Share a Coke campaign, which personalized bottles with popular names from each country, was
a masterclass in localization.
By understanding and leveraging the cultural significance of personal names in various regions, Coca-Cola
managed to create a deeply personal connection with consumers worldwide, significantly boosting their
sales and brand loyalty.
But how can businesses, especially those looking to expand, harness the power of localized storytelling
effectively?
The answer lies in thorough market research and cultural immersion.
Understanding the local culture, including language, humor, societal norms, and values, is crucial.
This knowledge forms the foundation of a storytelling strategy that feels authentic and respectful to
the audience.
Moreover, engaging with local creators and storytellers can provide invaluable insights and nuances
that might be overlooked by an outsider's perspective.
Furthermore, technology plays a significant role in facilitating localized storytelling.
With advanced analytics and data mining tools, businesses can now understand local consumer behavior
and preferences on a granular level.
This data driven approach allows for the creation of content that is not only localized but also personalized,
elevating the consumer experience and fostering a deeper emotional connection with the brand.
In conclusion, as the business landscape becomes increasingly global, the importance of localized
storytelling cannot be overstated.
It's a powerful strategy that, when executed well, can significantly enhance brand perception, customer
loyalty, and ultimately business growth by investing in understanding and respecting the cultural nuances
of each market.
Companies can forge stronger, more meaningful connections with their audiences, paving the way for
successful global expansion.

--- The Rise of AI Avatars and Digital Storytelling Assistants in Business ---

In today's lesson, we'll dive into the fascinating world of AI avatars and digital storytelling assistants
in the business sector.
These cutting edge technologies are not just reshaping how companies interact with their customers,
but are also redefining the landscape of digital communication and marketing strategies.
Imagine a world where your digital assistant doesn't just understand your commands, but also anticipates
your needs and communicates in a way that feels incredibly human.
This is the power of AI in storytelling and customer engagement.
AI avatars, for instance, have transcended the boundaries of traditional customer service.
They offer a personalized and interactive experience that can significantly enhance customer satisfaction
and loyalty.
These digital beings, equipped with machine learning and natural language processing capabilities,
can simulate human like interactions, providing responses that are not only accurate but also empathetic.
Companies like Soul Machines and Magic Leap are leading the way, creating digital humans that can serve
as brand ambassadors, customer service representatives, or even personal shopping assistants.
On the other hand, digital storytelling assistants are revolutionizing the way brands convey their
stories.
These AI powered tools help create more engaging and immersive narratives that resonate with the audience
on a deeper level by analyzing data on consumer behavior and preferences.
These assistants can tailor stories that are not only captivating, but also highly personalized.
This level of customization and storytelling was unimaginable a few years ago, but is now at the forefront
of digital marketing strategies.
Moreover, the integration of AI avatars and storytelling assistants is paving the way for a more interactive
and engaging user experience.
Imagine browsing an online store where a digital avatar guides you through the product range, offers
personalized recommendations based on your past purchases and preferences, and tells you the story
behind each product.
This scenario is already becoming a reality for some forward thinking companies, enhancing the customer
journey and setting new standards for digital interaction.
However, the rise of AI in storytelling and customer engagement also brings to light important considerations
around ethics and privacy.
As these technologies become more sophisticated and integrated into our daily lives, businesses must
navigate the fine line between personalization and intrusion.
Ensuring transparency, securing customer data, and maintaining an ethical approach to AI implementation
are crucial steps in building trust and credibility in the digital age.
In conclusion, I avatars and digital storytelling assistants are transforming the business landscape,
offering unprecedented opportunities for customer engagement, brand storytelling, and personalized
experiences.
As we look to the future, these technologies will continue to evolve, offering even more innovative
ways to connect with and captivate audiences.
Embracing these advancements while upholding ethical standards will be key for businesses aiming to
thrive in the digital era.

--- How the Metaverse and Web3 Will Transform Brand Storytelling in the Future ---

What makes a brand's story compelling in the digital age, especially with the advent of the metaverse
and Web3.
Today, we're diving into how these technologies are set to revolutionize brand storytelling, creating
immersive experiences that engage audiences like never before.
The metaverse, a collective virtual shared space, offers a new dimension for storytelling, allowing
brands to create interactive and immersive narratives.
Imagine walking through a virtual store, attending a concert, or participating in a product launch,
all within a digital universe.
This isn't just about watching a story unfold, it's about being part of it.
Web3, with its foundation in blockchain technology, introduces a level of interactivity and ownership
previously unattainable.
It enables consumers to own a part of the story, whether through digital assets like NFTs, or through
participatory experiences that can't be replicated elsewhere.
This shift towards ownership and participation marks a significant departure from traditional storytelling,
where audiences were mere spectators.
Let's consider a real world example.
A fashion brand launches its new collection not just on runways but in the metaverse, allowing users
to buy digital versions of the clothing for their avatars.
This isn't just about selling products, it's about creating a narrative that users can literally wear
and share within their communities.
The brand story becomes part of the user's digital identity, creating a deeply personal connection.
Moreover, Web3 is decentralized.
Nature fosters a more authentic and transparent relationship between brands and their audiences.
Brands can leverage smart contracts for more transparent transactions, while decentralized autonomous
organizations.
DAOs allow consumers to have a say in the brands direction.
This level of engagement and transparency is unprecedented.
Turning passive audiences into active participants in a brand's story.
However, navigating this new landscape requires a nuanced understanding of digital culture and technology.
Brands must be willing to experiment and take risks embracing the ethos of the metaverse and Web3 communities.
It's not just about transplanting traditional marketing strategies into a new medium.
It's about reimagining what brand storytelling can be in a world where the digital and physical increasingly
intertwine.
In conclusion, the metaverse and Web3 are not just new platforms for brand storytelling.
They represent a paradigm shift in how we think about engagement, ownership, and community.
As we look to the future, brands that can navigate this new landscape with creativity, authenticity,
and a willingness to experiment will be the ones that captivate audiences and create lasting connections.
The future of brand storytelling is immersive, interactive, and deeply personal, and it's unfolding
right before our eyes.

--- Case Study: How Disney and Marvel Use Future-Forward Storytelling Strategies ---

In today's lesson, we delve into the fascinating world of Disney and Marvel, showcasing how they've
harnessed future forward storytelling strategies to captivate audiences worldwide.
Disney and Marvel stand as titans in the entertainment industry, not just for their iconic characters
and tales, but for their innovative approach to storytelling that resonates across generations.
At the heart of Disney and Marvel's success is their ability to evolve with technological advancements
while staying true to the core of storytelling.
They've seamlessly integrated cutting edge technology to enhance their narratives, creating immersive
experiences that engage audiences like never before.
From the pioneering use of CGI in movies to the creation of virtual reality experiences, Disney and
Marvel have set new standards in storytelling.
Another key strategy is their focus on character development and multi-layered narratives.
Characters like Iron Man and Elsa are not just heroes, but are portrayed with depth, flaws, and growth,
making them relatable and memorable.
This approach to character driven storytelling ensures that their stories have emotional depth, connecting
with audiences on a personal level.
Moreover, Disney and Marvel have mastered the art of cross-platform storytelling by extending their
narratives beyond the screen to comics, theme parks and digital platforms.
They create a cohesive universe that fans can engage with in various ways.
This strategy not only enhances the storytelling experience, but also builds a loyal fan base that
spans across different media.
The company's commitment to diversity and representation has also played a crucial role in their storytelling
evolution.
By embracing stories from different cultures and featuring a diverse range of characters.
Disney and Marvel have broadened their appeal, making their stories more inclusive and reflective of
the world today.
In conclusion, Disney and Marvel's storytelling strategies are a testament to their visionary approach
to entertainment.
By leveraging technology, focusing on character depth, expanding across platforms, and embracing
diversity, they continue to lead the way in creating stories that not only entertain, but inspire.
As storytellers, there's much we can learn from their innovation and adaptability, reminding us that
at the core of great storytelling is the ability to connect with and move our audience.

--- Top 5 Predictions for the Future of Storytelling in Business Communication ---

In today's lesson, we're diving into the top five predictions for the future of storytelling in business
communication.
As we navigate the digital age.
Storytelling in business is evolving rapidly, influenced by technological advancements and changing
consumer expectations.
Understanding these shifts is crucial for anyone looking to make an impact in the world of business
communication.
Firstly, artificial intelligence.
AI is set to play a pivotal role in shaping narrative techniques.
AI technologies such as natural language generation and processing are becoming more sophisticated,
enabling the creation of highly personalized and engaging stories.
Businesses will leverage AI to analyze data on consumer behavior and preferences, crafting stories
that resonate on a personal level with their audience.
This means stories that are not only captivating, but also deeply relevant to each individual listener.
Secondly, the rise of virtual and augmented reality VR and AR offers new dimensions for storytelling.
These technologies provide immersive experiences, allowing consumers to step into a story rather than
just observe it.
Imagine showcasing a new product by placing your audience right in the middle of its story, experiencing
its benefits first hand.
This level of immersion can significantly enhance message retention and emotional connection.
Thirdly, ethical storytelling will become more prominent as consumers become more socially and environmentally
conscious.
They demand transparency and authenticity from brands.
The future of storytelling in business will require a genuine commitment to ethical principles, with
narratives that reflect a company's true values and practices.
This shift towards ethical storytelling is not just about avoiding backlash, it's about building trust
and loyalty with an audience.
Fourthly, we anticipate a greater act of storytelling.
With the proliferation of digital platforms, businesses have new opportunities to engage audiences
in two way conversations.
Stories will no longer be linear, but rather interactive experiences where the audience can influence
the outcome.
This approach not only increases engagement, but also gives valuable insights into consumer preferences
and decision making processes.
Lastly, we predict that cultural adaptation will be key in global storytelling strategies.
As businesses reach out to international markets, understanding and respecting cultural nuances will
become critical.
Stories will need to be adapted to fit different cultural contexts, ensuring they resonate with local
audiences while maintaining a consistent brand message.
This global approach to storytelling will require a deep understanding of cultural differences and a
flexible narrative strategy.
In conclusion, the future of storytelling in business communication is set to be dynamic, personalized,
and immersive.
By embracing AI, VR, and AR, ethical principles, interactive elements, and cultural adaptation,
businesses can tell stories that not only capture attention but also inspire action.
These advancements offer exciting opportunities to connect with audiences in meaningful ways, paving
the path for impactful and innovative business communication.

--- Mastering the Next Generation of Business Storytelling for 2030 and Beyond ---

In today's rapidly evolving digital landscape, the art of storytelling is undergoing a transformation
as we look towards 2030 and beyond.
Mastering the next generation of business.
Storytelling is not just an option, but a necessity for anyone looking to make a significant impact.
The convergence of technology and narrative, coupled with a deeper understanding of audience engagement,
is setting the stage for a new era of communication.
Let's dive into how you can harness these emerging trends to captivate and influence your audience like
never before.
At the heart of future storytelling is the integration of artificial intelligence.
AI.
AI is not just a tool for automating tasks.
It's becoming a co-creator, offering unprecedented opportunities for personalizing stories.
Imagine crafting narratives that adapt in real time to the listener's responses, creating a dynamic
and immersive experience.
This level of personalization ensures that your message resonates deeply, fostering a stronger connection
with your audience.
Another critical aspect is the ethical use of storytelling.
As we navigate the complexities of the digital age, ethical considerations must be at the forefront
of our narrative strategies.
This means being transparent about the use of data, respecting privacy, and ensuring inclusivity and
diversity in the stories we tell.
Ethical storytelling is not just about avoiding harm, it's about actively contributing to a more equitable
and just society through the narratives we choose to amplify.
The rise of virtual and augmented reality technologies is also reshaping the storytelling landscape.
These tools offer immersive experiences that can transport your audience to new worlds, making your
message not just heard, but felt.
By leveraging VR and AR, storytellers can create compelling, multi-sensory experiences that deepen
emotional engagement and leave a lasting impression.
Furthermore, the importance of storytelling in fostering leadership and building corporate cultures
cannot be overstated.
Leaders who master storytelling can inspire action, drive change, and articulate a vision that aligns
and motivates their teams in the future.
Storytelling will become an even more critical skill for leaders as they navigate the challenges of
a rapidly changing world and seek to inspire a diverse global workforce.
In conclusion, as we look towards 2030 and beyond, the future of business, storytelling is vibrant
and full of potential.
By embracing AI, adhering to ethical principles, leveraging immersive technologies, and recognizing
the power of narrative and leadership, you can set yourself apart as a visionary storyteller.
These strategies will not only enhance your ability to communicate effectively, but also enable you
to inspire, influence, and make a meaningful impact in the digital age.
Embrace the future of storytelling and let your narratives pave the way for innovation, connection,
and transformation.

--- Bonus Lecture ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]
