

=== Key Foundational Principles ===


--- The Big Challenge ---

Hello and welcome to the course.
Hi, I'm Steve Bolinger.
I'm the creator and instructor of the course and I'm so glad you're with us.
I've been managing people for and leading people for over 30 years, most of the time actually managing
other managers who then have to work with their team.
So I have a lot of experience helping people develop from a leadership and a management standpoint,
and I want to share some of the best, best practices that I have with you in this course.
And so just feel free to go through the course straight through or if you want to look ahead, if there's
a particular lesson maybe around performance management or working with your manager or something that
catches your eye, feel free to just jump right to that lesson.
That's perfectly fine.
So if we get started here, let's talk about the big challenge.
There's a big challenge out there, and the challenge is all around working with people.
Did you know that the number one reason why people leave leave their jobs is related to either their
direct manager or leaders they work with?
It's not necessarily it's a bad environment or it's the job stressful.
It's really related to how they're treated and how they work with their leaders and managers that they
work with.
That is the absolute by far the number one reason people leave leave a job, for example.
And on the flip side, you want to know what the number one frustration for us as managers or leaders
in an organization is, is challenges related to people?
It really is.
That's where our frustrations come.
So if we can work with work together on both of these ends, things would be so much better.
In fact, getting working with people right then big helps, leading and managing become somewhat easier.
I'm not going to be the person to say it's easy.
Being a leader or a manager is not easy, but we can help it be easier and we also want to make sure
that's more rewarding.
That's the idea of this course is helping be become easier, some best practices but also be more rewarding
for you by implementing some of these best practices.
So what do we mean by more rewarding?
Well, some of that rewarding is just having better interactions with others.
Maybe their team members are direct reports.
If you have direct reports or peers or even your manager just helping with those overall interactions
with people because people is the key thing here in business.
Helping with those interactions can help it be more rewarding for you from an interaction standpoint,
but we also want to be more rewarding from a professional standpoint too.
We want to help increase your effectiveness as a leader, as a manager will help increase your opportunities
and opportunities within the organization and opportunities that can maybe lead to things like a promotion
or financial opportunities.
These are all good things as well too.
So those are some of the goals we have as well.
And one of the big reasons for this, I believe philosophically most of us all very best practice earning,
but just a little philosophy here is I believe the world needs great leaders and managers.
We really do.
We really need you actually is what we need.
So to help anything from a development standpoint, help you become a successful leader and or a manager
would be what we're looking to do here.
Marcus Aurelius, the Roman emperor and philosopher, said It is the responsibility of leadership to
work intelligently with what is given and not waste time fantasizing about a world of flawless people
and perfect choices.
And isn't that so true?
There is no flawless people, and there certainly is imperfect choices.
So we're going to learn about some things, how we can approach working with people here through the
course and as we go through the course.
Last part here is think about if you come across a concept just or an idea or a best practice, take
a note, feel free to take a note and think about how you can apply this concept in your particular
situation.
That's all that really matters in the end, is how can this help you in your particular situation?
All right, that's enough for the intro.
Let's just jump right in with some seven ideas on how to be more effective right off the bat, and help
start thinking along the ways how we can become better leaders and managers.

--- Jumpstart Your Effectiveness (7 Quick Thoughts) ---

So let's jump start our mind a little bit and start thinking about some ideas.
Seven Quick ideas to kind of start jumpstart in thinking about how we can improve our effectiveness
and kind of think about how we can start approaching things.
So first thing is and this is going to be not too dramatic, I guess, or or too unusual, but if you're
going to work with people, you need to be a human to your person, just like your people.
You work with our people, right?
So it's important to be a human.
And what I really mean by that is sometimes we get caught up in the day to day activities.
And for many of our teams that we work with or that we might be leading, you'll understand that sometimes
it can feel they're just a cog in the wheel.
They're just another cog in the big machine.
You might feel that way yourself sometimes, too, which makes it even harder because you've got a lot
more responsibility.
Leaders and managers have a lot of responsibility.
So it's important for you to understand that you're working with humans and that you're human as well
too.
So think about how you'd want people to treat you and how then you can apply treating that to others
too as well.
Sometimes as managers, we've got to make tough decisions.
We've got to talk about people's poor performance, which we talk about late towards the end of the
course, we talk about how to work with people who are underperforming, all those types of things.
That can be difficult conversations, but in the end, we're always dealing with human beings.
So you'll think about that, be a human right.
Another thing that's very helpful I've always found very helpful is be curious about people and their
life outside of work.
Right, and be really real about that.
You don't say like, how is your vacation?
And they say something like, great, now let's go back to work here.
You know, I mean, truly have a genuine interest.
I find so many team members there, they're very when I like surveys or I talk with team members about
their manager, especially the most successful managers that they might be working with, they always
talk about how they care about their life outside work.
Now, you're not their relative.
Well, maybe you are, but you're you're not their buddy, their friend necessarily.
But having just a general interest or a genuine interest about people and their people in their life,
both in work and outside work, can go a long way for you.
It's much better in terms of people wanting to work with somebody and if they feel that they're curious
about them and their outside life as well too.
And along those lines is to be approachable.
I think this is very huge to be approachable.
So many people in leadership and particularly in management positions and I've held executive management
positions, you know, it's it can be intimidating for others.
Right.
And I'm kind of a taller, bigger guy.
And that adds another level of intimidation.
So you don't want to you want to try to do what you can.
I want to say you want to try and do what you can to be approachable, to let people kind of come to
you and be able to share their ideas, because that could be the next great idea for you and your organization
or also their concerns and challenges as well, too.
So being approachable is very important.
In fact, one thing I always do when I take over, let's say a newer area or I have a like a new department
or something like that, I'm used to managing full profit and loss statements.
I've sales operations, the entire organization, those types of things.
And one thing I always tell people and new hires as well to every single time that gets along, this
approachable thing is I always say to them, you know, if there's any kind of bad news or problems,
I want to hear that right away.
In fact, I want to challenge you to bring those things to me right away.
Why?
Because problems are the things that people don't bring up.
They try to hide or they try to say, well, maybe they'll catch it later.
It's those small problems that all of a sudden start getting bigger and bigger, bigger until they're
these massive, terrible things.
Right.
And it can be solved by just being more approachable and letting people feel comfortable coming to you.
It's an old saying is you want to hear bad news fast and terrible news even faster, right?
Because you want to be able to then take take action on those things.
An extra tip along this line of people bring you, let's say, some challenges or bad news or problems.
Feel free to ask them like, well, what do you think?
What do you think we should do?
And you might not act on what they do, but you're trying to engage them.
So people aren't just always coming to you with problems, but they're coming with solutions as well.
But the key part of that is all being approachable.
If you're not approachable, if you're scary or just or every time they approach you or talk to you,
it's a bad situation or uncomfortable.
Well, then you're not going to get that bad news right away, let alone you might not get those good
ideas as well.
And part of being approachable and just part of being in a leadership role is being calm.
Right.
Doesn't mean you can't be enthusiastic.
You can tell I'm a little enthusiastic and all that, but you've got to be the calm person.
You've got to be that calm.
You know, the ship and the storm or whatever.
You're in the calm, right?
You're the calm leader, the captain directing, directing the ship.
Because when everyone else is losing, everyone else is losing their minds.
They need somebody that they're going to cling to and look to.
And that's where they look to their leaders and potentially their managers.
So you want to try to remain calm no matter what's going on.
Now, after everyone leaves or they go off to do their tasks, you can go in your office and, you know,
scream and yell or cry or whatever you need to do.
But when you're facing people, the calmer you can be, the better.
So some ideas here to jumpstart your mind.
Thinking about things maybe obvious, maybe not as flexibility.
One of the key parts of leadership and management is you just have to be flexible.
Things are just changing all the time and the world is moving faster than ever and it will keep getting
faster.
It's not going to slow down, by the way.
It's going to keep getting faster all the time.
Technology helps drive that speed, that speed of work, speed of what's going on, too.
So you have to be flexible and flexible as far as adjusting possibly meaning that your goal is, but
how you might be approaching those goals and trying to achieve your objectives.
You might need to be flexible as far as working with different paths and as part of that flexibility,
it all gets back to people is how you're going to be flexible.
Working with different people understand that everyone being a human being is different and some people
need to be managed or led a little bit differently than others.
Some things you can use consistently, but some things you might need to be more flexible on.
So just understanding flexibility around work patterns, objectives, but certainly flexibility working
with people.
And as we talk about diversity of people, you'll strive for a diverse team with complementary skills.
It's one thing to have a diverse team on things from like gender and race, nationality that's extremely,
extremely important because they bring so many new perspectives and ideas.
But you also want to have complementary skills too.
You don't want to have everybody have the same skills and they might have a lot of diversity in other
ways, but you're still all kind of muddled up in this same skill area.
You want to have people bring complementary or additional skills, things that they can develop or share
and help with the team too.
So think about diversity in team, but also think about how you can have complementary skills.
And some of that complementary skills might be you need to hire new people, let's say, to bring in
some new skills.
And other times you might be using training and development courses through Udemy or whatever to help
develop people skills as well too, so they can be complementary skills.
Another one here of our seven is self care.
So I'm I'm not the kind of guy with the candles and the media and the meditation maybe I should be or
whatever.
But whatever your form of self care, you know, do take your time for yourself.
You can be an effective leader and manager of people if you can't take care of yourself.
And that means in order to be calm, for example, sometimes you need to take that break and have some
self care and whatever that is for you.
For me, it's nature.
I like to hike in the woods and be in nature and just I find it very calming, listening to the birds
and the animals and plants and a whole bit and just getting away from it all.
I am blessed to have some natural areas where I live, so it's easier for me to get my car, drive 10
minutes and be in nature.
So that works for me.
But the key is it's whatever works for you as far as self care.
So those are seven ideas that you can just kind of start thinking about that just are jump starting
ideas in these broader concepts.
Now let's get to some more details around some things we can do to help working with people.


=== Getting The Most Out Of Others And Yourself ===


--- Being On Stage & On The Balcony ---

Many people in my other leadership courses and other things.
I've worked with people throughout the years kind of really like this concept of the being on stage
and and in the balcony.
And so we're going to talk about that.
And what does that mean and how does that work?
Because it can be very, very impactful in this lesson.
So do stay through this lesson.
So we all know we've taken any kind of training and they always say, what do they say?
Well, you've got to be a good listener, right?
You've got to listen carefully.
And I would certainly act to that.
You need to be a good observer to you need to observe what's going on as well, listening and observing.
But sometimes we're listening and sometimes we're we're acting where we're the ones taking kind of providing
that that leadership that we're communicating.
We're the ones speaking.
We're the ones standing up in front of the group.
We're leading that way.
And so many times for our leaders, because we're action oriented, most times, you know, not everyone
and not everyone has to be, but by nature, leaders tend to be more action oriented.
We just want to just jump right in and just try to solve everything.
If you're one of those folks, Hey, I get it.
I'm like that, too.
It's like somebody says, Oh, hey, Steve, I got this a little challenge.
And I'm like, Great, let me solve it.
I'll just solve for you in 13 seconds because I can make decisions.
Boom, boom, boom, boom.
Do you ever find that where you got to make decisions fast?
And it's like, well, sometimes in order to make better decisions, we have to stand back and we have
to listen and observe.
But it's more than that.
It's much, much more than that.
And that's where the concept of being on stage or in the balcony comes in.
So take a look at this picture here and think about what you see here.
And if I was to ask you, well, who's the manager?
Who's the boss?
Who's the manager, you might say, or who's leading who is leading the meeting?
Right.
You might say, well, just look in the picture.
It might be this woman on the left, right.
She's standing up, she's speaking, and that might be that person.
But we really don't know.
It could be any of the four, could be the leader of the manager, just that somebody else is now speaking
or taking their turn or whatever asked to present.
So we really don't know, but we just naturally think, Oh, it's the person taking action.
So we're going to come back to this picture.
But think about a couple of concepts.
One is when you are on stage, right?
So we think about that, meaning sometimes you're on stage and you're like solving problems and you're
communicating, you're speaking, you're leading, you're directing others.
You're, you're just in control and you're the focal point, right?
You're the focus is on you.
And because you're on stage and some people are more comfortable being on stage in that manner and leading
very publicly than others.
By the way, the other way, if you're leading more quietly or more loud or whatever, you're still
in stage either way, where you're the one kind in control, the one really communicating.
But sometimes it's very important for us to get on the balcony.
And what do we mean by that?
Sometimes we're watching others.
That's that observe and listen part.
We're on the balcony and great leaders know when it's time to speak.
But also great leaders really know when it's time to be quiet and to shut up, really, and give your
team the opportunity to communicate.
Give your team the opportunity to be on stage and to be the star.
In fact, a lot of times when you think about meetings where people are together so many times as leader,
we start the meeting and we just want to dive right in, you know, and that's okay many times, but
sometimes it's good to just start the meeting and let others start talking more and encouraging them
and saying, Hey, you know, Jane or Amir, you know, why don't you tell us about what you're working
on?
Tell us how this problem you solved earlier this week and your solution to it, things that you can
help them to become the star, right?
Help your team members to become the star star.
And sometimes that means we have to step back and be on the balcony.
Sometimes that also means we're working with our peers or we're in a room with managers that might be
above us or below us.
It might be.
My boss's boss is in there, you know, and all that.
And that's okay when we're on stage sometimes with the boss's boss, and sometimes we want to be on
the balcony and listening to to what they're doing.
So if anything, sometimes a good thing to do is try not to just always jump out fast and be on the
stage.
Sometimes it's really good to take it in a little bit.
And then when you are listening and learning, then when you do get on stage, you're going to be much,
much more effective.
So not only developing people by letting them share the stage, but also when you come on the stage,
then you can be a bigger star too as well.
So if we think of some great leaders here, think of like Nelson Mandela, for example, sometimes he
is definitely on the stage.
He is presenting to tens of thousands of people or when he was alive, he he was as a recognized great
leader.
And we may think of Nelson Mandela that way, you know, these great oratory, these great speeches.
But Nelson Mandela was also great at listening and being on the balcony.
And it didn't matter if it was a big group or a small group or even a child.
You could see how he's listening intently.
Here he is on the balcony right here.
He's on the balcony.
And it's important for the leadership.
So then he can start communicating that leader around his own goals and dreams and thoughts for his
country and for himself, actually.
And in terms of what he's hearing, even if it's from a child.
So if we think back to our little meeting picture we had before.
If we look at it from a different perspective, we don't have to think about who's the leader or who's
the manager.
We can just say, Looks like the woman on the left is on stage.
Right?
She's standing.
She's looks like she's speaking.
She's certainly addressing another person directly, looking at the at the gentleman in the middle there
with like the blue sweater on.
And is he on stage or is he listening?
We don't know.
We can't tell from a picture he might be interacting with her.
So he started on stage two or he might be listening.
And same thing with the two people, the woman on the left and the gentleman on the far right.
You know that they're both in the balcony now.
Now, either of them could be the actual manager.
They could be the formal leader or formal manager in the room.
We don't know.
All we know is that they're taking notes.
Hopefully the person on the right is taking notes other or they're actively engaged here, but they're
on the balcony right now.
And when it's their time, they can just jump right in, too.
So by having that idea of being on the balcony or being on stage and understanding those different parts,
that can be very, very effective.
So think about that.
When you start going to your next meetings and observing others who tends to get on stage right away,
who is that quiet person in the background who when they speak, everybody listens because they've got
such great thoughts and ideas and you might want to, as a leader, encourage them to speak more, get
them on the stage more.
You know, some things to think about as far as when you're working with people and working with people
more effectively.
And I think this is an idea that you can really take some notes on, hopefully, and think about how
you can apply it in your own situation, on your own stage or your own balcony or in your own theatre,
so to speak, which is wherever you work.
And this can be used, by the way, not only in the work environment, but also in volunteer organizations,
in the community, wherever you're leading, when working with people, these concepts can be applied
universally.

--- Should You Admit Your Mistakes​? ---

As I mentioned, I've been managing other leaders and managers for most of my adult life.
And one thing I get asked a lot from people who are my direct reports, people report to me who are
then managing other people is should you admit your mistakes?
Should you admit that you made a mistake, especially to your own team?
And it can be kind of a challenging question as far as like, oh, I don't want to admit that or I might
look bad or the lose faith in me because I made a mistake and I'm admitting to the mistake.
And so a lot of times when managers will come to me, I'll ask them some questions and I'll say, well,
let me ask you this.
There was a mistake made.
How are you going to you know, the team's not going to know, right?
People no people.
No mistakes going to meet.
So what are you going to do if you don't admit your mistake and be like, well, and this is how I usually
go?
So they're like, well, I'm not sure.
I thought maybe you could help me.
Like, all, I'm going to help you, but I need you to work with me here a little bit.
I'll take this extra time here, and I want you to tell me what you think we should do if you're not
going to admit your mistake.
Understanding.
Well, first off, do you think the team is going to know there was a mistake made and it's like, well,
yeah.
Or she's going to say, Yeah, they always do.
And if not, they'll figure it out.
Don't worry, they'll figure it out and like, Well, what should you do?
And I'd be like, Well, I could.
I could blame someone else.
I'm like, Oh, does that sound right?
Like, No, I can't blame someone else.
And who would you blame?
I'm one of your team members who who's innocent and like.
Well, no.
Well, I could blame the competition.
I can blame some whatever, whatever.
Right.
And so you should come down to either I'm just going to void or pretend the mistake wasn't made or I'm
going to blame somebody else.
Right.
Both of those don't sound very ethical, by the way, or certainly not effective.
And so I guess for me, to varying degrees, you should admit your mistakes and own your mistakes.
If you make a mistake, you should admit that.
And particularly owning it and being leading by example, right?
If you want your team that you're working with to maybe admit when they make a mistake or things didn't
work out as well or something like that, it's not even necessarily a big, glaring, terrible, huge
mistake and certainly not something that can be overcome.
The worst thing is when things becomes when there's lack of trust, right?
That's when have you ever been in an environment where there's a lack of trust and how that just is
like this cancer eroding stuff away that's even worse.
And the stars by sometimes people not only blaming others, but or taking credit for other people work,
but also from folks not admitting their mistakes.
People make mistakes.
Remember the part where we were human beings be a human.
This is part about being human.
We're not flawless individuals.
We make mistakes.
And so it's okay to admit to them, you know, I certainly recommend you admit to them.
Now, you don't have to make it a big deal.
You don't have to have them call a big team meeting, say, oh, I've made this mistake.
I'm so sorry.
You know, it doesn't have to be something like that.
It could be just more just a course of business type thing.
Oh, hey, I thought this would work out.
I'll.
By the way, it didn't.
So now we're going to set a zigging, we're going to zag, we're going to go in this different direction.
By the way.
My bad.
I made that call.
So now let's figure out how we can overcome this.
Right?
Engaging your team and getting their ideas.
That goes so much longer than saying, you know, Charlie, over here, that's really his mistake or
something like that.
So I guess I'm a believer in that.
I know not everybody agrees with this, but some people can think this a little controversial.
But I know that if you're comfortable and as you get more comfortable in your leadership role or whatever
you're doing, if anything, your mistakes can be beneficial.
Certainly, it's better to admit a mistake than to, let's say, engage in a cover up.
And again, some things are bigger than others.
Some things you don't even really have to address just admitting to it or understanding doing better
the next time versus sometimes you do need to call that team meeting and do the more honest thing and
talk about it.
And really the next thing is again, coming with the solution and what's next.

--- Leadership Style Adaptation ---

Let's talk a little bit about leadership and management and how it kind of works together a little bit
around leadership styles and hereto a little bit and adapting your leadership style.
And in this course, I'm trying to address both.
There are some folks who are managers and they actually are in a management formal role who are in this
course.
And as part of being a manager, by definition, one of your key things is you have to have a leadership
component.
Any mansion class that's ever taught talks about leadership as being part of overall management.
Now, some people are in leadership roles or they take on leadership roles and has nothing to do with
them actually having a formal title or manager.
They're just a leader.
They're a person helping, inspiring that vision or whatever.
So, you know, you don't have to be a manager.
If you're a manager, you're going to be you're going to be a leader.
You're going to need to develop your leadership skills.
But you do not have to be a manager to be in a leadership role.
And this could be I am trying to orientate a lot of this around work and companies, but a lot of leadership
happens outside the office, too, and volunteer organizations are working in public institutions where
might be.
So let's break this down a little bit and talk about adapting your leadership style, depending on the
situation a little bit.
So if you go to know there's lots of different different issues.
So what's the difference between leadership and management?
A classic one is like this.
Let's take a look at a graph here.
So leadership is like, well, we're going to have that vision.
We're going to instill an inspiring vision and we're going to talk about the vision.
We're going to be visionary.
And then managements like instilling good operational processes.
We're going to manage things, we're going to manage processes.
You know, both actually are managing not only processes, but both you're managing people, right?
Installing good operational processes.
Well, who's doing the process once people for the most part certainly got some machines and maybe some
AI.
But really it's people that you're managing but you're also leading.
That inspiring vision is certainly for people.
And then for me, I like this particular definition because it's all about getting things done, but
not getting just things done.
It's getting important things done, right?
So leaders and managers, you need that, both of that to get things done.
So if you're not a formal manager, you might be a leader who might be leading a project team or leading
some type of thing.
And you need to help with that operational process and instilling that vision.
But to get there, we need the processes to get there, right?
So they can really go hand in hand.
So think about it.
If you think of yourself or you aspire to be a leader, just think there are times you're going to be
even without the title, you're going to be kind of managing and trying to work through processes and
working through processes means working through people.
So let's talk about adapting your leadership style.
Your leadership style.
You should adapt to different situations.
All that, you know, some people feel old school.
The thing would be I'm an authoritarian leader, right?
I'm just going to yell at people and they will do what I say.
Well, that's really old school, even older than me.
And that's saying something that doesn't work in today's environment.
There are times you need to be authoritative, and we're going to talk about that, where you have to
be very direct and direct in certain situations.
But if you're at direct all the time, then you're just you're just a jerk, really.
You know, that can be as effective, in my opinion.
So if we look at leadership styles, I found this chart I think was very good at adapting your leadership
style as needed so that you're actually becoming predictable in each situation.
People don't like it when you're unpredictable, when they don't know what to expect, they don't.
You're not very approachable because they don't know how you're going to react.
Are you going to be calm and work with them or are you going to blow up and be yelling?
You know, they don't know.
So they like predictability.
People like predictability.
So we look at these leadership styles and this matrix.
You can see on the left hand side, it talks about the environment you're in.
Let's say, for example, environment is an organization, let's say a work or job or company.
Just keep it simple.
So if it's a stable environment, not much is changing.
Everything's pretty stable, pretty good.
If it's a high growth or a changing environment, maybe it's part of a startup and you're just growing
quickly and lots of things are happening and there's lots of change going on.
That's part of change management.
There's a lot of change going on and the bottom one there on the left hand side is environment in crisis.
There's some kind of emergency.
There is a crisis.
So that's the environment.
And then along the bottom is the people, right?
Or person.
They use the word subordinate, by the way, I'm not I don't like the word subordinate.
You know that you're subordinate to me.
I don't like that.
If if it's somebody, you could be a peer you're working with, actually.
But let's say let's I prefer a team like direct reports, something that has their reports to me or
that they're part of my team, let's say, for example.
But so get the subordinate part.
So is this person experience, are they inexperienced?
So are they inexperienced?
They're new.
They might not know their particular function yet or what what this particular environment thing might
be calling for it.
So their inexperience, if they're really solid and capable in a particular area, for example, think
of like a project or a skill.
They're capable and just really solid.
That's the middle.
And expert would be like, they're there.
They're smarter than you.
They're they're just really an expert in this particular area.
So we look at the metrics.
You can see how you can adapt your leadership style depending on the environment.
If you've got a stable environment for most parts, you're going to be very participative, trying to
get ideas from people, letting them kind of be on stage, that kind.
Being very participative doesn't mean it's a democracy or anything.
It just means that they're actively engaging and participating.
In fact, with those experts, you can delegate to them and say, here, I'd like you to do this and
accomplish this goal.
So I'm going to delegate to you and you just keep me informed, but you really got it and you can run
with it.
I don't have to be micromanaging this.
So it's that stable environment from participating to delegate.
So a high growth are challenging environment.
You're still participated with the capable and the expert folks, but for inexperienced people you might
be less participated with them.
You might need to be more direct with them, not yelling or anything that just say do this, do that
is more so because things are changing so quickly until they can move up to the capable bucket, so
to speak, and become more capable.
You just might give them more management or more leadership or more focus and be more direct with them.
Environment in crisis.
Well, that's where you need things that we've got a lot of that more directness.
In fact, a better word, meaning authoritarian might be directness, even with experience and capable
people.
You've got to be really direct, really direct, really direct and then need with those experts that
you're you're asking to participate.
But it's too much of an environment in crisis and also in the changing environment to give them necessarily
as much delegation.
You can still delegate this.
They are not fixed buckets, but the idea is that you might need to have them be more participative
than just letting them run off on their own because the environment is in crisis.
I mean, think about like let's say you're a fire captain and you go to a house that's on fire and you've
got a team of firefighters.
You know, that's an environment in crisis.
The house is on fire.
You've got to be really direct and authoritative and telling them what to do.
Go here, go here, go on that ladder.
Save this person, that kind of stuff.
We're back at the station house.
You can be more participative or delegated.
And who's going to cook the meal for that day or maybe some training or stuff you're doing?
So think about your own environment as far as how you can adapt your leadership style so that it's predictable
to the different things that might be happening in the environment.
And again, you could be in a very stable environment and then all of a sudden something changed.
There's a change happening and that moves into Matrix or some kind of crisis happens.
A couple of people leave or there's some competitive thing or there's something that causes a crisis
you might need to adapt your leadership style.
The key is that predictable and that you're comfortable adapting your leadership style, whether you
want to be more direct or authoritative more let's all work on this together, participative or more
like, Hey, let's delegate this to you, take care of this, and you run with it if you want to learn
more about delegation, by the way, I have some real quick tips at the end of the course of your wondering
about delegation how to do that effectively.
That's coming up later in the course.
So stick around for that.

--- Leverage leadership Qualities ---

When you're working with people, it's great to really understand your strengths and your viewpoints
and how you might be strong in certain areas or have certain qualities.
Let's take a look at this little chart here, this graph with some leadership qualities to kind of have
you think about it.
And then you can kind of think to yourself like, what are some qualities that you're strong with and
you should use more?
And is there something you just need to improve a little bit on?
This can be kind of a nice, almost like a little checklist for you.
So there's a variety of leadership qualities out there.
And let's here's a nice little graph that shows some.
So as a leader, are you very inspirational?
You're the person who's, like, inspiring that shared vision and just a very inspirational I think
all leaders that's are important, to be honest.
If you struggle with honesty, that's something I would put high on your list, by the way, you know,
strive to be brutally honest.
The more honest you can be, if there's even a range on that, more honest, the better, you know,
how committed are you, how you highly committed or not so much to the organization, to your team,
to people you're leading, and maybe you're recognized as being really a highly committed person, and
that's a strength for you.
Or maybe you're very passionate and you're very enthused about the goal you're trying to achieve.
And so people really gravitate towards that and they just really get enthused by your passion.
Some leaders are very reflective, right?
They're more they might be seem to be slower and they're making their decisions only because they're
really taking more in and they're trying to make a good, reflective decision.
Others are more decisive.
They can just make decisions really quickly and very effectively.
Who are you?
Where do you fit on that scale?
From being very reflective to very decisive or somewhere in between?
Just understand how that applies to you.
Creative.
Some leaders are not creative at all, by the way.
They have team members who are creative and others who are very idea oriented or ideation and very creative.
So if you're creative, think about how you can use your creative strength even more problem solving
that just kind of comes with the territory for leadership, but particularly for management too as well.
We part of what managers do a lot and leaders do is we solve problems.
Are you great at solving problems or do you need to improve that or find team members who are great
solving problems?
And then how supportive are you?
How supportive are you with your team?
Is that something you just need to improve on a little bit or is that something like that's a strength?
I'm very approachable.
People come to me.
Doesn't necessarily mean I agree with them, it just means I'm more supportive of them.
So use those kind of things.
Then that quick little graph you can start thinking about Where's my strengths?
And maybe where am I a little weak?
And where do I want to spend a little extra time on and then put that into practice and start learning
more about it.
Educate yourself on this course, even in learning more about it, and then put it into practice.

--- Encourage Knowledge Sharing & Discourage Rivalry ---

As I mentioned earlier in the course, I have managed other managers over different parts of the country,
but also globally have manage other managers and manage different teams globally, too.
And when you're managing or if you're leaving other people to have to be an asset manager.
It's very important encourage knowledge sharing.
And I tell you, one of the struggles when I'm managing other managers is some of them are, if not
almost all of them are very competitive.
And so they're not good at sharing knowledge.
If anything, they are more rivals, right?
We want to discourage rivalry.
We want to encourage knowledge sharing.
And that can be real tricky because sometimes people seem like they're competing with each other as
opposed to around the same team.
But everybody in some companies do like things like stack ranking and all that.
And the they put in an environment of making it competitive.
And I understand that I've been in those environments, I've managed sales teams, for example, and
I've managed sales managers in multiple locations.
So I have sales managers all over the place, all the country and sales teams and sales managers by
nature tend to be very competitive.
That's why they're in sales, because they just have that natural competitiveness.
And I'm a competitive person to actually all the little tests and studies I've done strength based training
type studies shows I'm a competitive person, but I also recommend recognize that you want to be competitive
with your own team, you want to be competitive against maybe your competitors, and you want to be
competitive in a way like how can we support our customers more?
How can we develop better products and solutions and services to them?
How can we be competitive that way?
How can we be competitive by working together?
So encourage knowledge sharing and discourage rivalry.
And I'll tell you, one of the ways I do that is I talk about it all the time in saying we need to share
more knowledge, we need to share knowledge.
And when people have ideas, I really blow that up like, oh, Tom had this great idea.
Let's talk about that.
Let's what are the ways we can implement this?
Oh, you know, so here I had this other idea and we can build on this and start doing that.
And I actually would put in there performance reviews.
This is one thing from the management standpoint necessarily.
Again, all leaders are managers, but all managers are leaders is that I would put in their performance
reviews and I would talk about them in their performance reviews and monthly if depending on situation,
you know how good they were at sharing knowledge, how good were they working, working together as
a team that gets so lost any time a performance review, especially if they're only annual, you know,
that gets to be I don't love them.
They can be really kind of a problem.
They're not real, real accurate half the time.
And there's a lot of other things going on because it's tied to compensation.
But the main point I'm trying to make is talk about encouraging knowledge, encourage knowledge sharing
that you're sharing knowledge, you're working together and recognize people who take that leap of faith
because sometimes they've got to get over their fear to share knowledge.
But the other part of it sometimes their problem getting out a fear they've got to get over their competitiveness
of sharing knowledge.
If you can get an environment where people are really, truly sharing knowledge and not being competitive
with each other and being rivals, then, you know, you're really developing a very effective organization
of very effective teams and you're really performing well as a leader.

--- Where The Magic Happens ---

Hmm.
So where does the magic happen?
Well, it doesn't happen in the small circle here, which is your comfort zone.
It happens in the big circle.
Getting outside your comfort zone is where the magic happens.
Okay, this is the part where you just say, I know everybody says, get out of your comfort zone.
It's uncomfortable being out of the comfort zone.
Well, that's kind of the idea.
There are times when it's okay and good to be in your comfort zone when things are just running really,
really well.
But there are opportunities in times where you just need to add that extra and do that extra to get
out of your comfort zone, because that's where big leaps in performance and in your career development
and your personal development happen is when you're outside that comfort zone.
Think back to a time when maybe you got an opportunity, maybe an opportunity at work or maybe an opportunity
outside of work, maybe a leadership opportunity, maybe a big promotion or a small promotion.
Or you're a manager now.
How did you get there?
There are probably steps along the way where you are out of your comfort zone, not all the time, but
sometimes you're out of your comfort zone because it's out of the comfort zone where big leaps happen
and where the magic happens.
I'm very blessed and just so grateful to be on Udemy and teach on.
I'm actually one of the top instructors here on Udemy.
I get okay there.
I patted myself on the back a little bit, whatever.
Terrible.
But but I'm very thankful that I get to teach hundreds of hundreds of thousands of students on Udemy,
but I had to get on my comfort zone to do that.
I had to figure out how to do lighting.
I have no idea how to do lighting and how to do things on camera.
I've done public speaking before and so I'm comfortable speaking in front of groups.
But all that other stuff, some of the technical stuff I had to learn and I had to get out of my comfort
zone.
And by the way, when I was out of my comfort zone, my most earliest, earliest, earliest videos,
they're not as good, right?
And continually improving.
So you've got to continually improve.
How do you continually improve?
You've got to continually get out of your comfort zone because that's really where the magic happens.
And I'm not going to say always out of your comfort zone, it's comfortable being in the comfort zone
and being in the comfort zones where everything's running.
You want to make sure anything's running smoothly in your comfort zone and in your team's comfort zone,
or the people you're working with, particularly that you're leading there, have a good comfort zone.
They can always fall back on, but then stretch them a little bit and yourself to get out of that comfort
zone and get where the magic happens.
So if there are things you're learning, let's say in this course, you're like, Oh geez, I want to
try this, but I'm just not sure, hey, get out of your comfort zone.
That's where the magic happens.
Give it a try.

--- Say This Often ---

This may be something you're already doing, but I want to impress upon you to say these two words often,
probably more often than they're saying, to be honest, and that is to say thank you.
Say thank you so much.
Say thank you all the time.
People like it when you say thank you to them and you actually believe it.
You know that you're that you're really grateful for what they do.
Now.
There's different degrees of thank thank you.
I mean, if somebody if somebody, let's say, comes to a meeting in the office and they bring coffee
like they say, oh, Jane's here and she brought coffee, it's not like you're going to be like, Oh,
Jane, thank you so much.
Your coffee will change my life, you know?
So that would be just disingenuous or fake.
And Jane would look at you like you're kind of weird, but say, Hey, that was really thoughtful of
you.
Thank you for doing that.
In fact, saying just thank you.
But the thing a little bit, you know that's really thoughtful for of you can go a long way if you're
doing that publicly that can go a long way.
But even after the meeting, just take that little extra bit of time and say, you know, Jane, that
was really nice of you to bring coffee.
I really thank you for doing that.
And I don't mean that from like, you know, just coffee as example.
It might be just a thing.
It's probably not a good example, actually.
Maybe Jane brought a solution to the to problem or or get the report done ahead of time or is working
ahead of everybody else.
You know, those are more specific things.
But I just want you to get in the comfort of saying thank you no matter what it is, and saying things
thank you for things that are small and certainly saying things thank you for things that are big and
then saying thank you to people publicly.
So a lot of people hear them, but a lot of times what people want to hear that real thank you also
is not publicly.
In fact, many people don't want to hear a public thank you because they're a little shy or they don't
want to be the center of attention or they don't think it's a big deal.
Whatever reason is, you have to kind of gauge and this is where you adapt your leadership style to
different people.
You have to kind of gauge where they're at with different things and how they like to be praised.
In effect, this gets back.
This gets even beyond just saying thank you.
But in praising the general idea is that people think, oh, we want to praise in public and criticize
in private.
I would say, yes, criticize or performance and management in private.
You bet.
You don't want to make a big spectacle.
You don't want to bury somebody.
If you're going to talk about perfect performance, something you know, generally or almost all 99.9%
of the time, you know, you want to criticize in private, but and think people and be praising in
public, but also understand that some people, they prefer more of that praise more privately to.
I'll give you one example of that.
I had a manager of mine.
She was terrific.
Her name was Chelsea, one of the outstanding top 10% performers, always outstanding and the measures
and goals that she had to achieve.
And so she would often get praised on like our our conference calls.
We'd have a weekly conference call with her peers, the other managers.
And so I'd say, Kelsey, your number one again this week or whatever it is right on these measures.
And I remember I actually did a smart thing once I was having one on one meeting with my managers and
I thought to ask them, How do you like to be praised?
Think about that.
When you're talking to people, think ask them this question How do you like to be praised and are you
okay being praised in public?
And for Kelsey, it turned out she says, I hate you know what she said to me?
She said, I hate it when you praise me in public.
I just feel embarrassed and nobody's is looking at me, even if it's on a zoom call, you know?
But I really like it when you say like you do now when we're one, two, one, you praise me now.
And I really, really like it when you send out the reports and things and mention some praise for me
and my team, you know, that this part of the this this state or this her area, her geographic area
was number one or did well.
Great job team.
Great job team, because I'm more team oriented when it's going out to everybody.
And she said that she uses that with her team and they really enjoy that because that's a team thing
versus me singling out Kelsey with her peers for praise.
So understand that when you're praising people, it might vary depending on the situation.
And again, human beings, they might prefer to be praised different ways to you might prefer that as
well, but when in doubt, just say thank you.
It can be just that simple.
Just say thank you and say it often.

--- When To Step In And When Not To ---

An important skill you want to develop is really understanding when to step in and when to get more
involved.
So it's important to learn when to step in.
And this will vary by person and really it's more by person that you're leading not necessarily in the
situation than really in yourself.
You need to be flexible, but remember back to flexibility to know when to step in and when not to.
It'll vary by person.
And when you do step in to really you don't want you're trying to help but you don't want to micromanage,
right?
You don't want to be over somebody.
You want them to do the work and all that.
So don't micromanage them and certainly don't take on their work.
Sometimes we think about we think about that in terms of work or whatever, that we're the ones that
have to take everything on because we're the smartest or we're the leader or whatever.
Or maybe that's our you might think that's our role.
You know, that's not necessarily our role.
That's not our role.
Our role is to be in terms of when to step in.
You know, our role is to be that facilitator, the facilitator who smooths the way and helps overcome
obstacles.
So we're when somebody is asking for help, we're the facilitator, we're not the micromanager.
And we're not going to take on their work.
They don't get to delegate to us.
We delegate to them.
It doesn't mean we can't work as a team, doesn't mean sometimes we share stuff on a project.
But if you took everybody's work, well, that's a quick way to get overwhelmed.
Again, got delegation less than coming up at the end of the course.
Really embrace that one because that'll help you a lot if you find you're taking on a lot of other people's
work.
But the key thing is be the facilitator and help them by facilitating and helping them work through
their issues without taking on their issues or certainly micromanaging them.

--- Learning Culture & Mentorship ---

It may come as no surprise to you, because what I'm doing here was doing instructing teaching here
on Udemy is I'm a big believer in continuous learning and helping teams learn, but also yourself learn.
I just think it's such a, such a dynamic and to be a great leader, especially somebody who's really
leading with and working with people, help develop them, put them in situations where they can get
out of their comfort zone, for example, or give them resources and things to help them become more
knowledgeable in certain areas.
Udemy has what, tens of thousands of courses, right?
There's lots of stuff that you can maybe say to somebody, Hey, take this Udemy course.
If you find that's an area that might help develop them and work on together.
As far as action plans and what might help them, again, depends on your situation.
If you're the manager, you can be more direct with it possibly, or still working with more direct
than if you're more of a leader or in a situation or maybe with a peer where more being more suggesting
or you're trying to be a little bit more influential or influence you're trying to influence them like,
hey, maybe you should take this programming course or whatever type course.
You know, that might be a way to kind of make a step there, but you're working together with them,
but kind of developing that whole culture of continuous learning and educating yourselves.
Even if you work in a company that maybe doesn't value that as much and Italian companies are valuing
learning more and more than ever, not only is it a way to retain team members, but it's a way to attract
team members.
It's also a great way to improve performance and helping people stay with the organization so they're
embracing it more.
But if you're in a company that isn't, that doesn't mean that the people you work with in your smaller
part of the bigger company or organization, that you can't develop your own culture of learning, you
can't develop continue with your own learning, which by the fact that you're taking this course, many
other courses and other things you're done, books you're reading, whatever it might be that you want
to learn more, that instill that in other people you're working with too.
And learning can be just like that.
Or maybe it's something more formalized, like a mentor.
If you have a mentor that can be very helpful or find a mentor for yourself or be a mentor to others
too.
You know, mentorship can be very, very impactful to as far as being more 1 to 1, maybe more specific
versus some broader learning.
So either way, think about how you can develop a culture learning in your organization and help you
become a more effective leader and working with people because you're interested in them, you're curious
about them, and you want to see them succeed.
And you help them succeed by helping them develop professionally and possibly even personally, depending
what they're wanting to learn more about.
That's up to them.

--- Customer Focused Leadership ---

One thing that can be very helpful is kind of a relentless focus on the customer, on your team's customer
and the people that you serve.
Focusing that helps focus and motivate your team and always be thinking like, How does this help our
customer?
Sometimes we get off and really wide tangents or doing all sorts of things.
But if everything boils down to how does this help our customer?
And our customers can be our traditional external customers, people we buy our do not buy but sell
products and services to.
But many times our customers are internal to the organization.
We're serving other members of the organization, maybe the accounting team, and you're helping provide
the accounting and financials for the executives, or people are making decisions or your human resources
and helping provide understanding our own benefits and things like that for the internal team members.
Either way, everybody has a customer and so when you're leading and managing or working with teams,
the more you can think about how does this help?
Our customer can be very, very helpful.
So people are coming to you with ideas, for example, or we're brainstorming, trying to always be
thinking you can keep bringing this up saying That's great, but how does this get us on the road to
help our customer?
It might not be the ultimate answer, but it might be something that helps our customer.
And if it's something that doesn't help your customer and in fact maybe hurts your customer, that's
something you'd really want to consider strongly before doing.
Doesn't mean that you don't do things that are maybe not perfect for customers.
Sometimes, for example, customers, companies or organizations raise prices because the cost of their
own goods and prices or inflation is causing challenges for them.
So they have to raise prices.
Is raising prices great for customers?
No.
Everybody would like to pay less for things, but you have to do it as matter.
But it might be a matter of how can we communicate this to our customer, even if it's something that's
not necessarily beneficial for them in these types of instances?
But in general, always be thinking about that customer focus, how to help our customer, whether they're
external customers or internal customers, and really start answering these questions, well, who is
our customer and do we truly understand our customer, external and internal customers?
And thinking more about how can we serve them?
In fact, as a leader, a great question to keep asking people is how can we serve our customer?
What are some innovative ways we can serve our customers?
And I tell you, that's a great way to help keep people focused and also be working with people and
working with others throughout the organization, moving things forward to better serve our customers
and by better serving our customers.
In many cases, that helps serve us as far as being more effective in our positions and being more effective
in working with others.

--- Quick Steps To Delegate More Effectively ---

Delegating effectively is extremely important.
It's a critical skill for managers.
I mean, it's just part of being a manager.
You have to be able to delegate effectively to be an effective manager, I would argue.
And then in leadership roles, if you're not a formal manager, but you're in a leadership role and
maybe it's in a volunteer organization, maybe it's less formal, maybe you're just trying to step up
and speak out more or lead more, whatever that looks like to you.
Being able to assign tasks and delegate effectively and get things done is important not only for leaders,
but critically important if you're in a management role.
I know when I was first, my very first job as a manager, I struggled with delegation and it really
hurt me.
I almost got fired.
I almost got my position was terminated because I was not good at delegating and also caused me a lot
of stress because I took on everybody else's work when it should have been going out to other people.
One way of developing other people, by the way, is giving them things and buying through delegation
to help stretch them and get out of their comfort zone.
And to do more things now is to free up your time to maybe do more important things or more impactful
things that you're good at, particularly from leadership and management standpoint, but also it helps
develop them as well.
So delegation critically important and I'll give you some key tips around that as far as delegation.
So really easy, just a six step model for delegation.
I have a whole course, by the way, on delegations a couple of hours long.
If you're interested in really learning more deeply about delegation, take that course.
That's pretty interesting around delegation or take another delegation course.
But if we look at just like here's an example from better up of six steps to effective delegation,
right?
And a pretty simple idea when you're delegating some pretty simple ideas around here to get you started.
So first off, one is just plan and prepare.
What are you going to delegate?
What are you going to give out in planning around that?
And who are you going to give that to?
That's a big thing, is who are you going to give it to and why?
And really take a moment to plan it out.
It can be very important right at the beginning step then discuss the tasks that be delegated, right?
So you're talking now with the person then really discussing the task, give them enough detail so they
really understand the the task and make sure that they're open to ask questions of you so they fully
understand the task.
A lot of times when delegation goes wrong, it's in this step because the task wasn't really defined
well enough.
Identify the deadline for the completion of the task.
That's very important.
Otherwise there's no deadline.
It'll just kind of float out there.
I mean, people have other tasks, other core parts of their job or things they want to do.
So having a deadline, it's really important to keep people on track.
But also you can see how progress is going and you can always adjust.
The deadline of some emergency comes up or something happens.
You can adjust the deadline, though.
I would prefer you to adjust deadlines too much.
If you adjust deadlines all the time, then you kind of get that reputation that you're kind of easy
and people will let you get away with that.
With missing deadlines.
Also outline the level of authority of the person has.
They might have complete authority.
They can make all the decisions to get this task done and other things.
There might be things you want them to check back with you on me.
Are there certain milestones or certain parts to keep you informed?
Or maybe there are certain parts where you have to be involved to make a decision around that level
of authority as the task is on its way to being completed.
So let's say that the task is three big components A, B and C, maybe you'd say at the completion of
each component.
I need you to get with me so you can decide whether to move forward or move up to the next level.
You're keeping some of that authority versus giving somebody complete authority to do A, B, and C.
And you certainly talking about kind of building these checkpoints or progress reports as you go along.
I think that's really important unless you're fully delegating to somebody and just really leave it
in their hands completely and you're just not involved anymore.
And that can happen sometimes with a real simple task, or it can really happen with people who are
really excellent or experts and you can really trust them.
But otherwise it's good to just build in right at the beginning checkpoints and progress reports whether
we're going to get together weekly or monthly, whatever the timeline is in relation to your deadline,
that you have checkpoints in progress built in there right in the beginning and then at the end conduct
a final debriefing.
How did it go?
What worked well?
What didn't work well?
So you can keep learning on how to delegate even better, not only for yourself, but that individual
you might be delegating too.
So that's a simple little roadmap for for doing delegation.
Another let me just give you another quick, quick one here.
I'll go quickly as far as another alternative way you can look at it to very similar this is another
similar one where delegation process is you're basically matching or matching the person, the task
you're having that briefing to avoid mistakes and you're following up getting a feel for how they committed.
That's really kind of happening in that briefing.
How committed are they?
Are they going to get this done?
Monitoring.
This is about risk management.
So that's the idea is you don't want things to go off track on the you don't want to get to the end
and find you're going to miss a deadline or there's a problem.
So this is kind of that reporting and monitoring and then the feedback we talked about that final debriefing,
but what we didn't mention is also it's a great time for great time for recognition, praise and also
developmental guidance.
You know, it's one thing to complete a task that's.
Thing to really give people recognition and praise for completing the task and that they're getting
it done.
So hopefully that helps you a little bit about delegation working with people so much.
A big part of it is delegating to them and others will delegate to you.
Your boss will delegate to you too as well.
So you don't want people to delegate that.
Let's say if you're a manager and your direct reports, you don't want them delegating up to you.
You want to be delegating to them.
And if you find yourself ever in situations where you're very, very stressed, then this is necessary
all the time.
But I found for myself frequently when I'm getting a lot of pressure, a lot of stress, is because
I'm not delegating enough.
So when in doubt, delegate more and delegate more effectively.

--- What Really Get's Done ---

Let's talk about getting things done.
Do you ever kind of find yourself thinking about maybe others or peers or others and like, boy, they
really get a lot of stuff done or they get the important things done.
You might wonder, well, why is that?
What are some of the things?
What are some tips around that as far as getting things done, especially getting things done through
a team that you might be leading or managing.
So in terms of what gets done, just kind of let's think broadly here, what gets done.
And and if you're struggling with something getting done, by the way, kind of take some notes around
this, too, by the way, and think of these broader concepts.
So first off, what gets done is whatever you prioritize as firstly what gets done, particularly if
you're in a formal position of authority, you control people's pay or their job prospects or whatever,
but you don't have to as a leader.
People follow leaders.
That's the whole idea, right?
You have an inspired vision.
You lead people.
So whatever you're prioritizing is what gets done.
Now understand that if you make everything a priority, everything is super important.
Well, then nothing is a priority, right?
If you hear that term or that phrase.
And that's very true.
If everything is like a number one, then nothing's a, B or C.
So you want to prioritize the things that are most important to whatever you're looking to accomplish.
Now, you still have to be flexible because you might have this a number one priority and you really
focus on it.
But also then something else comes up that's either a better opportunity or maybe there's an emergency
or something like that that you have to kind of be flexible in.
Like, so if your priority is like, we're going to spend the next 3 hours working on this project or
whatever all together as a team, very important.
And we're all there and we're working hard and all of a sudden the building catches on fire.
Well, you might need to be flexible and make another priority of let's get everybody out of the building
so we're safe.
Right.
So that's an extreme example.
I know.
But but that's the idea that you need to be flexible and you still have to do mundane tasks.
For me, I hate to an expense report, I just always have, and I know I've got to do my expense reports,
but every time I'm doing like expense reports, I'm like, but I have these bigger priorities.
Why am I spending some time working with these stupid expense reports, even though I'm going to get
my money reimbursed to me is my expense report or if I'm managing others.
Sometimes I'm having to sign off and approve expense reports, which is really important to them because
that's their money.
So you think it'd be something that's really important?
And it is, but it's real mundane, right?
So it's not something I have an eight number one priority, but I still have to do my important tasks,
even if I think they're less fun to do or mundane.
Another thing in terms what gets done is not what you get prioritized, but what gets measured.
What gets measured is what gets done is a famous phrase.
I bet you you might have heard of it.
Not everybody, but you've heard of it.
You know what gets measured is what gets done.
Think about your own situation.
Do you have things that are have numerical measures to them, like they're tracking something or you're
being evaluated against certain numerical measures, like how many of this you did or how many of that
you did?
If you do, that's what becomes priorities, right?
What gets measured gets done.
So if you're looking to getting something more done or putting more priority on it, see if there's
looking to ways to put measures around it.
Your milestones are ways along, let's say a project goal or whatever.
So you're measuring progress as one example, because what gets prioritized is what are your deciding
as a leader?
But also what's getting measured can really help you and gets really help, gets things done, things
that aren't measured are easily forgotten.
And the other thing that really is old school, old school, but still effective thing is what gets
rewarded, right?
What gets rewarded, gets focused, gets attention and gets and gets done.
Now, these rewards might be things all around.
You're getting rewarded based on rankings, right?
So maybe you're measuring things.
You're in a ranking type system.
Salespeople, for example, they get stacked rank who's number one and who's the bottom and who's in
between.
So that's very motivating for them.
But they might be tying compensation towards those rankings, or it may be something as rewarding as
simply as praise, right?
If somebody knows they'll get praise for accomplishing certain things and they know they get rewarded
with that, they're going to focus on those tasks more, even something as simple and as free as praise.
Now, some things might be tied to things like promotions.
If, you know, if you get this certain project done or a certain accomplishments done, whether it's
you or somebody you're working with and you're leading, if they feel that they're on a promotion track
or it helps their ability maybe in the future to get promoted, not that it's necessarily tied to that
task at hand.
I mean, if they've got something that says if you complete this task or if we complete this project
by the deadline, you will get promoted.
That's very motivating, right?
That's going to help get things done.
But just that folks know that they're on an important project or important thing and that might lead
to promotion being basically what I call a promotion track that helps focus them and helps get things
done.
And certainly what helps get things done, I believe, is financial incentives, right?
So if they accomplish certain goal and they get a bonus or a raise or whatever and they can see it,
and especially they tie it to that, you know, that can be very, very incentivizing.
So for me, for example, I've managed a lot of broad, wider organizations.
Full pal.
Responsibility.
Profit and loss.
Full responsibility.
So many times I was bonus based on our financial profit, right?
Not necessarily sales.
I might have a sales component or reduce expenses, but the overall profit of the organization that
I was responsible for.
And if I hit my profit goals, I would get money.
I would get a bonus.
And sometimes that bonus would be higher depending on how well I did with my profit goals, how much
profit I achieved.
So you can see well, that's very motivating.
You, though, it's not tied to a specific task.
It really helps focus.
My thinking and getting things done relate to how do you get more profit?
Well, you increase your sales, you have more money or revenue coming in.
So what can I do to increase sales?
The other end of the spectrum is how can I reduce costs?
How can I keep costs under control and reduce costs while I'm trying to increase sales?
At the same time, sometimes those are in conflict, but if you can increase sales and decrease cost
at the same time, well, what's going in?
You're getting a lot of profit.
And what happens when there's a lot of profit?
Hey, Steve gets some big bonus money.
So think about not only for yourself because that can help motivate you, but also think about others
and how they might have financial incentives around that and then talk about that and tie things you're
trying to do if you're working with people and there's a bonus opportunity for them, talk about how
what you're trying to accomplish or you want them to accomplish.
There's some financial incentive there too as well.
So in the end, there are other things in terms of like what gets done.
But I would say start by focusing on these big things as this will make really move the needle really,
really fast.
What is it your prioritizing, what's getting measured and what's getting rewarded?
Think about that in your own situation where you can and maybe can impact those and you can see you'll
see a lot more things getting done.

--- Involving Your Team ---

Now, this may depend more on your leadership style, but I'm a big believer in involving your team,
involving the team.
I mean, if I'm going around and I'm really putting a priority, which I do on hiring great people,
I want to hire the best people I can who are very intelligent, thoughtful and committed to the organization
and committed to success.
Well, if I'm going to hire these great people, I should take advantage of that and involve them and
let them become part of that.
Plus, that actually helps as far as developing people.
And as I've mentioned, I'm used to managing other managers.
So I'm always having to promote people to become new managers as other managers get promoted or maybe
leave the company or whatever happens.
So I'm constantly trying to involve people to help develop their skills so they can become managers
and leaders maybe now or in the future.
So involving your team and the more ways that you can involve the team in idea generation and all that
very, very important I think can be very helpful.
So think about how you can involve the team more.
Now, it's not a democracy.
Okay?
So particular if you're like a management role, you're not doing decisions by vote speak, so to speak.
You're kind of kind of coming to consensus.
Or if at the end, if you're the manager and you're the decider, if you're the ultimate decision maker,
well, then you've got to make a decision.
But involving people as far as around that decision.
Now, the more involved someone is in the ideation and the ideas around that, maybe even you give them
some ability to make some decisions.
You know, the more committed they will be in terms of execution, right?
You work together on a team on how we can approach this problem and they all kind of get agreement and
they've been involved and they've been sharing ideas and then they're going to be much more committed
to actually solving it and solving it in that manner versus you saying authoritatively like, Hey,
you go do that and fix that, right?
So as opposed to them being which takes a little more time, I get it.
But you know, they're a little bit more they're definitely more involved in them.
More involved.
The more involved.
And you can probably think of this in your own world, too, where things are kind of like somebody
putting a thumb down on you, upper mansion or like that.
You'll do it, but you're not going to be as enthused or maybe not as effective than if you are actually
part of the process.
So sometimes things are emergencies.
You've got to react quickly.
The house is on fire and the fire captain says, run through that door and put out the fire.
That's something that's critical.
And you're not going to have a whole big team discussion on it.
But otherwise, like, how can we approach penetrating a new customer market, for example, is something
you want to spend more time on, for example, and more you can involve your team the better.
But again, I'm not saying democratic democracy or voting or anything like that.
It is still more hierarchical in terms of organizations.
Maybe your culture or company is different or organization, then that's fine too.
Maybe you're working in government or in some type of thing where where there is votes, you're on the
city council and it's a voting thing and it's more about influence versus somebody being the decider.
That's okay to just and again, the more involved people are, the more committed they'll be.
Now, one time one thing I also talk about is having people be involved, having people bringing ideas.
This is where the magic happens.
People bring a lot of great ideas.
And you you're going to use some of those ideas, but you're not going to use some of those ideas.
They might be a great idea that you just decide not to use.
It might be in the end, a terrible idea.
They get to great ideas.
Sometimes you got to have a whole bunch of terrible ideas to get to the one great idea.
So when people bring in ideas, you want to encourage them to keep doing that.
And one way to do that is tell them you can.
I guarantee that you will use their ideas, but you really value their opinion even if you go a different
way, and that sometimes you're starting up meetings where you have brainstorming or having a lot of
ideas floating around.
You know, it's a good way to start saying, I want your ideas.
Don't feel bad if I don't.
We don't use your idea.
We just chose to go in a different direction.
But we want to keep the ideas flowing.
So it's not about whose idea gets used.
It's about are you contributing in our sharing ideas?
And so again, hopefully you're seeing the whole benefits of involving your team.
And if you would say, Yeah, but sometimes that takes a lot of time.
It does.
And I'm like, You're right, it does.
It can take more time than you just being the decider, saying, you do this, you do this, you do
that, or just having all the ideas yourself.
But hopefully by having involving your team, you're going to get better results because they're going
to bring on their own perspectives.
This is where diversity comes in and helps a great deal, for example, and they're going to be able
to accomplish even greater things by involving your team.
And so it's an investment of your time on certain things where you're going to invest time to get the
big results.
If it's something that's simple, what are we having for lunch today?
Well, maybe one person decides or you decide and you order the sandwiches and that's the lunch.
But again, the more involved your teaming for lunch, the more they'll feel valued, by the way.
So either way, my default has always been when I have opportunities to involve the team, I do.
And I hope you will kind of embrace that, embrace that as well.
But again, everything's adaptable to every different situation.

--- Importance Of Root Causes ---

A super important consideration is understanding what is the root cause.
Particularly it's related to like your problem solving, what is the root cause of our issue.
And typically the root causes all other always relate to one or both of these things and that's people
or processes.
You don't have the right people, you don't have enough people.
The people aren't trained.
Whatever is something really to the people or it can be the process.
You have a poor, you have great people, but you have poor processes to accomplish certain things.
Or it could be both, which makes things even worse.
The idea behind the root cause.
You may have heard of this, but if not, this is just really important, is to understand that if you're
trying to solve something, let's say solving a challenge or a problem, that you have to solve the
underneath the the ground, the root part as far as what you can't see, you're or you can see.
But in this case but the idea is that you're solving things that are not as visible.
You have to go deeper to solve something that's maybe not as readily apparent would probably be a better
way to phrase it.
If I see the tree, there is the tree.
But what's under the ground might be what's causing the issue.
If I see a tree, let's say, that has disease or is struggling, maybe it's something related to its
root system.
So what this all means for business, if we get to that part, is solving for the correct thing that
will then help you with your problem or issue.
If you've ever seen something where you thought you solve something, and yet the problem is still there
or just is manifested in a different way and just keeps going.
And then then what that means is you're not solving for the root cause.
You're you're solving for something that's really apparent or you've leapt into a decision and think,
oh, this is going to solve this.
And actually, we're not solving is a deeper, deeper issue.
So if let's say you have a team member, let's say who is who's struggling and you're like, oh, I'll
just provide them with training and development, right?
You know, and you give them a couple of bits of training and you think, Oh, I saw my problem.
I gave them a little training, taught them to take this Udemy course and the problem solved.
And the thing is, the problem isn't solved and you're seeing similar, maybe unproductive behaviors.
For example, you'll be like, But I gave them training.
What am I supposed to do?
Well, maybe it's something deeper, right?
Maybe they're being bullied at work, for example.
It doesn't matter how much training you're giving somebody, if they're being bullied at work, they've
got a lot more problems on their minds.
So you'll understanding whatever that root cause is, is understanding what you need to solve for if
I see somebody as unproductive and I say, Oh, go take this leadership course from Udemy or go take
this programming course from Udemy.
But the problem is that they're really having a hard time interacting with others, or we use the example,
an extreme example, but happens where they're being pressured or bullied at work by other team members.
You know, all that training is not going to solve anything, but if you find out what the root cause
is like, oh, okay, now I can take steps of what's causing this whole bullying type thing.
And is it something that can be solved with getting the team together and solving it one on one?
Or is this something where I need to make changes?
Maybe I need to let the person who is bullying other people let them go and fire fire them, terminate
their employment, and then I'll send everybody's performance starts improving even without the training.
So I want to encourage you to buy you to me, train or take you to meet training that's solving for
the root cause.
So just think about that, maybe a little extreme example, but it does happen in the workplace, but
sometimes the root causes are not as dramatic as that, but they're really the whole thing is you're
trying to solve for the underlying issue.
So if you're really trying to lead and manage and motivate teams, understanding that when there are
challenges to look deeper, look deeper, look for those roots and see what might be going on for real.
And then solving for that deep root cause, I tell you, it's been one of the things along with delegation,
but another thing that's been really impactful I know from my career is always thinking about what's
really going on here, what is the root cause?

--- Improving Poor Performance & Performance Management ---

Okay.
Let's talk performance management where people are, in effect, underperforming.
And this might be more oriented towards maybe for those of you who are or who are existing managers
or in a management type role, I think it can apply a bit, but particularly some things we'll talk
about here are steps to take when you're managing other people's performance.
So if that isn't new, then feel free to skip on ahead to the next lesson, though I think you might
see some interesting insights in this lesson, but particularly for your managers, this is for you.
So when you're looking at poor performance of some steps or some ideas I'd like you to take, because
even though hopefully I've shared a lot of great ideas with you, there might be at points where you're
going through the course thinking like, Yeah, that's nice, but you understand, I've got some poor
performers and they're just not reacting to some of the things that you're talking about.
Well, sometimes that's sometimes that happens.
Sometimes people are poor performers and sometimes they can turn around and sometimes they can't.
So let's talk about what to do in these situations.
So the first thing is when somebody is really underperforming is to start thinking about that root cause,
right?
We talked about root cause and understanding.
Is there poor performance related to things at work?
Is it work related?
Is it a skill thing like we're training might help?
Is it a task thing?
Is it team interaction?
Is it interacting with others?
Is it culture?
What what might be the thing that's happening?
What is the root cause that can be work related?
Now, many times it's things where sometimes it can be things that are personal related, right?
They've had a death in the family or there's some kind of somebody struggling with with a cancer or
some terrible disease.
You know, these are personal things that impacts people's performance at work.
And there's some things you can do if work related stuff, you can do more personal stuff, then that's
a little bit harder to deal with.
It's some things where maybe the company can provide support.
Maybe they have hotlines or phone numbers they can call or part of their benefit package they can talk
to for support, or maybe they can talk to human resources.
Maybe there's things that you can do around using vacation time or having other people cover different
things or whatever it might be.
The key is determine what is the root cause.
Again, because so important to try to solve for that that underlying root issue around poor performance,
you can keep throwing people all sorts of training and all sorts of work related stuff, but if really
it all comes down to is their husband or wife has cancer, then that's a different situation.
So determine the root cause.
The other thing now is we evolve for poor performances.
You address performance issues quickly.
I know the worst situations occur and as I mentioned, I mention all the managers and I see this when
I have my managers and they come to me like, Oh my gosh, I got this big problem with this person.
And I'm like, okay, well, in they're struggling with their performance and I'll talk to that manager
or maybe their but I'll talk to the manager and I'll say, Well, why?
How long have this performance been going on?
And they'll be like, you know, Oh, that's been going on for about six, seven months, right?
And I'll be kind of do my little head shake thing.
I'll kind of you know, they know how I am, right?
So they know this is like, okay, come on.
Right, really?
And I'll kind of do this thing like what?
And like, okay, I know it's seven months.
I should have took care of it sooner.
That's usually saying they'll say, Oh, I know, I should get over it sooner.
And I'll say, You know, you try that sooner, just maybe twist the knife a little bit and then we
get into solving the problem.
But the key part is that you want to address performance issues quickly.
Where the worst things happen is where a performance issue is not solved quickly and it festers, right?
And it gets to be bigger and bigger.
And next thing, your small little issue becomes this big issue and then it becomes a massive issue.
And it might be affecting other people of the team because it's growing organically and now it's just
like monster big issue that all of a sudden we have to take steps on and maybe those steps have to be
dramatic.
Maybe writing people up or firing people or terminating their employment, where if we would just address
the performance issue early, it might not have led to any of that.
So address performance issues quickly.
Also think about how can you improve the performance, the the person's performance, right?
So this is linking to that root cause.
Let's think about work related.
You know, it could be something as simple as providing training and development and training and development
that they need to help build up a skill gap.
For example, maybe there are some resources that they need, you know, thinking about this again,
like they could be great or they could accomplish this, but I need to give them some more resources.
I need to be, as maybe the leader or manager, go to others, maybe a people above me and say how I
need some resources to help this person succeed.
So that might be where your role is.
Trying to help find resources for the person doesn't always work that way.
Know the whole nature of business philosophically is trying to accomplish things with limited resources,
right?
You have limited resources.
So you try to do the best you can with the resources you have.
But sometimes you can help performance by redirecting or getting resources from one area or in new resources
and redirecting it to help with an underperformance type area.
You might maybe the person needs to find a mentor or a partner or work together with somebody that can
help improve their performance and be somebody that they could bounce ideas off of or just have somebody
listen to.
Maybe that's you.
Maybe you're the mentor.
Maybe it's a matter of finding somebody that they really connect with who can be a mentor or a partner
for them.
And sometimes it might be a matter of changing the goal.
You know, they like they're actually performing well, but the goal is just so aggressive and so difficult
that they're never going to achieve it.
Right.
So if I was, my goal was to build a rocket to take us to Mars, I would be very committed.
I want to do a good job and I'll be a terrible performer.
I don't know anything about building rockets, so it's one.
I need some resources, a whole bunch of training.
But even still, I might never, ever get there.
Right?
You give me an astronaut as a mentor, it's still not going to get there.
So I'm not I don't believe in changing goals.
I think if you change goals, that is a significant step.
Like you've adjusted all your you've exhausted all your other possibilities, like training, like resources,
like mentoring.
If you've exhausted that or finding those won't work for you, then maybe it is the goal that's the
problem.
And the goal might be motivating people.
We want the goal to be motivating.
That's achievable, right?
We want goals that are our stretch, that are challenging but achievable.
If you have a goal that's challenging but not achievable, then people won't work hard to achieve the
goal because they know it's impossible.
So that's more of a last resort type thing, is looking to see if you can change the goal, but sometimes
not as to improve the performance because they know they look better getting to the goal.
But it actually gives this motivational boost because they're like, Oh, I can do this.
I couldn't do this, but I can do this.
And then they can improve their performance and maybe be very, very successful.
Okay.
So let's say you've been doing all this stuff, but performance still isn't improving.
It happens.
I wish it was like magic and you could just do something, pull a lever and all of a sudden performance
increases.
But let's say the performance is not improving and you need to give a performance improvement plan.
And some organizations, they would call it a PIP performance improvement plan.
Others might call it a write up.
I'm going to write you up.
Either way, it's something that's more formalized.
You're going to document.
You're going to be a formal thing.
And the reason you're more making it more formalized is now you're on the path that you're either going
to improve performance or you're going to go a different direction, which means you're going to lead
to possibly termination, where you're going to let the person go.
Right.
These are challenging things, but you're now at a fork in the road where you've tried a lot of things.
Now we're going to get real writing things down and getting setting goals and being more specific around
performance.
So we're going to talk about performance improvement plans with the goal of either improving your performance
or you're going to maybe be determination.
So when you do a performance improvement plan, the most important thing is to get that buy in as best
you can.
Some people think you're picking on them or whatever, but you want to try as much buy in as you can,
particularly talking about the end results if they don't improve their performance.
So be specific.
The where I've seen performance improvement plans go awry, is there just General, we need you to do
better.
We need you to work harder.
We need you to do whatever as opposed to being specific, like accomplish this by this certain date
and being very, very specific.
So very specific.
And what is there accomplishing and then very specific in terms of timelines and deadlines, you need
accomplish X by this deadline, by this time, and have a timeline of there's multiple, multiple deadlines,
some that might take a longer time to accomplish and then get them involved in the development of the
plan.
If you can, you come with some ideas and come with some things.
Maybe it's training or whatever it is, but the more involved they can be, just like we're involving
our teams, the more involved they can be, the more buy in they'll have with it and hold accountability
to themselves to improve their performance.
So be specific, have deadlines and timelines and try to get as much buy in as you can.
But many times it's more of a punishment type thing.
They'll see it that way.
But just so they understand what the consequences are, what happens if they don't improve their performance?
And that's the that's the other part is clearly outline what happens if two things are going to happen.
Right.
And either performance is improve or performance does not improve.
So if the.
Performance improves, maybe it's part of like, well, then you're off the formalized rate, off a
process and we tear it up and throw it away or we put in your file and never look at it again and you're
back on the straight and narrow and you're doing great and your performance improves.
And we don't have to ever think about this again, hopefully, or the performance doesn't improve.
And then what happens specifically?
This is real key and outlined to them all along the way.
What happens if their performance doesn't improve?
Does that mean we're going to have more performance improvement plans, more write ups?
Is there a second chance?
Is there a second write up or does it lead to termination?
We're going to basically fire you.
A very common thing is person gets a lot of verbal warnings.
A person can in ideas and trying to help them succeed.
The idea, the goal here is you want to help them succeed and improve their performance, not necessarily
to fire them, maybe in some cases, but you're really not you want them to ideally improve performance.
It's hard to find and hire good, great people.
It's very costly actually.
So you'd rather improve the performance of people have so.
You might do the verbal stuff to help encourage them and get them with training, whatever it might
be to help them succeed.
Then there's a first right up.
This is a classical step way, and then there might be a second write up if they haven't met their deadline
or having a performance improvement as improved by the deadline.
And then after that second write up that might lead to or would lead to I would I like to use words
of your performances improve after a second right you will be terminated versus like you have multiple
types of termination, multiple write ups or things at least if it's within the specific stuff.
The key on all this, by the way, is work with your human resources team and work with your organization's
policies around this, particularly when you start getting the things like write ups and certainly termination.
Get partners, talk to your boss, talk to human resource, get their all buy into this is another area
where things can go awry is people start doing write ups and stuff and they don't involve some of the
other key partners they need to involve.
So do that ahead of time.
So you're all all together and in this decision making thing, if performance improves, that's great.
Then we're all happy.
If it doesn't and let's say it ends up in termination and you're in a meeting where you're actually
terminating something, somebody that's for my managers again, you know, you might have somebody in
the meeting say, Well, I want to complain to HR about this termination.
This isn't fair.
I want to talk to your boss.
You know, this isn't fair, you know, but if you've been using if you've been partnering with these
types of people all along the way, well, you just say, look, human resources signed off on this.
My manager signed off with it.
Maybe have your manager, your boss in the termination meeting and you're doing this together.
Well, then that makes the termination process go smoother and easier for you.
But also it eliminates those types of things where your things can kind of backfire on you if you ever
try to terminate somebody and it doesn't go through because you didn't follow the process or procedures
that your organization has outlined.
Well, that's shame on you.
Right.
Plus, you've really kind of done a disservice to that underperforming team member, and they're probably
not going to improve their performance.
You're just going to keep doing it all over again.
It's just going to be painful all along the way for the team member, but particularly for you.
So then that all that happens and you must continue to monitor the progress, whatever you're at in
this write up or verbal process, providing encouragement, provide support, provide ideas, helping
them to understand that you want them to succeed.
And again, if the ultimate thing is termination, if that occurs, please follow the company's policies,
be human about it.
We talked early in the course about being human.
You know, don't be disrespectful.
Don't be don't be nervous yourself, by the way.
But B, treat people like a human being.
Yes, I'm going to take your employment away.
I'm going to terminate your employment.
I know this is going to cause hardship for you.
Now, you can never say like, Oh, this is worse for me than for you.
I've seen that happen.
That's the worst thing you can say, because it's always worse for the person you're terminating.
They've lost income.
It might impact their family.
It's going to impact for many people, impacts them psychologically because they identify so much with
their work and what they do.
So be kind, be a human being and follow your company's policies and procedures.
And then if you're having a termination meeting, cover what you need to cover, what happens with benefits,
all this stuff, your last paycheck, but follow the company's policy and do quickly and be kind and
be a human about it.
Because one thing to live with this is being aware of the survivors, too, because if you terminate
somebody, there is people who are still with the company.
Right.
And they may still be friends with that person who no longer works there or communicate with them.
So if you treat them poorly, the person you're terminating, that's going to have an impact on the
survivors.
And so when you're talking to the survivors, talking about, hey, you know, times performance improved,
we unfortunately had to let them go.
We're looking for new person.
Here's what we're doing.
You know, lay it out to the team at that point.
But they see the they know what's going on.
I tell you, your teams know more than you think in terms of who's performing and who's underperforming
and some team members.
I'm actually happy that you've let somebody go either way.
Your overall team is going to be happy that you're leading.
Or if you're a manager, they're all teams can be happy if a poor performer either improves their performance
or in some cases are not with the organization.
So those are some tips and ideas around performance management, again, particularly for my managers
who might be in the course, but maybe you're in a leadership role and you're partnering with a manager
and you're having to try to communicate these ideas.
You'll use that as well to and be an influencer if you're not the direct manager.
But either way, how to handle poor performance can be a real critical thing in terms of overall success,
the organization's success and your success.

--- Linking The Organization To You ---

To be a good leader or a manager, you do have to have a certain amount of caring about the organization.
You need to care about its vision, your team, your role in all this, your goals.
Does it mean you need to care as much about maybe your faith or your family or friends or things like
that?
No, of course not.
But if you're going to be an organization, the more that you buy into the organization and really believe
in the organization, it's going to be a lot easier for you to succeed.
Now, no organization is perfect.
There are things we all complain about organizations that say, Oh, I wish we did this better, or
Why do we have this rule or policy?
Understand that there's always ways things could be better, but the more you can be kind of embracing
the organization just overall, it'll be better for you, basically.
And so just in terms of being in tune and tied with the organization is you want to follow the organization's
policies and procedures.
They have rules and things for a reason.
These are things that make things run more smoother or they provide a consistent type thing.
So everybody is treated fairly.
That's the idea behind policies and procedures, ideally, is not that you're just archaic, dumb rules.
They're actually a way to be more effective and treat people fairly.
But at being a good person in the organization means that you do need to take calculated risks.
I believe that to be true.
As leaders, as managers, we take risks.
We need to take risks sometimes and to move the organization forward.
They're looking for us to be innovative, right?
Where are the innovative people?
We're the risk takers.
So there's I want to encourage you to do that within your of the balance of your organization.
You know, your organization more than I do.
Some organizations are very risk oriented and want you to take every risk possible.
And some organizations are risk averse.
But even risk averse organizations want you to be innovative.
Once you take calculated risk, they certainly want you to be a leader.
You know, the world needs leaders, organizations and leaders.
So they want people to lead.
They want people who can build partnerships within the organization, not only with their own teams
or their own departments, but cross-functionally across departments, across organizations, across
peers, just across all up and down, all around the organization.
And then also to be kind of a good person with the company or organization is to seek help as needed,
whether that's from your manager, your direct manager that you report to or human resources or whatever
type of internal support mechanism there is or people generate reports or whatever it might be to seek
help as needed and be a partner as far as seeking the help.
Not only that, your partner, when you're providing help at your provider, when you're walking, when
you're going out to people and reaching up for other people for help too, as well.
So again, think about your organization where you find your organization and what your role is.
What's your leader or manager?
Manager role is whatever it might be.
But again, the more that you can be, you know, embrace that organization, the more effective you'll
be.
And again, I'm not saying 100% that's the most important thing in the world, but the more you can
really buy into the values and the vision of the corporation and then how you can contribute to that,
that's going to just help you to be not only more successful, but actually help your healthier and
happier with your role in it.

--- Managing Up (5 Quick Tips) ---

To be effective leader and manager, you need to be able to manage up.
And what we mean by that is working with your direct boss, your upper management, working with people
that might be, quote, above you in the organization.
And it's important because when you manage up and working with folks that are technically above you
in the organisational hierarchy, is you going to be there to represent your team?
Right?
Your team might need resources, your team might need direction, whatever it is, your team needs things
and you might need to go to the boss, so to speak, to get those things.
And this falls on you as the leader or the manager of this team to represent them and really advocate
for them at times.
At times you're going to really advocate for them.
Other times, maybe not so much, but there are times when you're going to advocate for them.
But also you're representing yourself too, and you want by managing up, you can be more effective
for yourself and maybe leading to other opportunities and things for yourself by being good at managing
up.
So let me share with you five quick tips to basically manage up better.
You know, give you some quick ideas on how you can be better working with your boss, so to speak.
So first, as somebody who has been the boss of many people, almost all life is one is be proactive
when you're working with your boss, your direct manager, be proactive.
I'm so big on that.
Common solutions to the problems.
I want you to come with problems.
I want you to come with you when there are things are going bad or I want you to come when things are
going good too, by the way.
But but it's particularly when there's problems if you can be proactive and come with solutions to the
problems.
Wow, what a winner.
I really love that.
And I love I love you as a direct report, somebody I'm going to keep my eye on if you're not only coming
with the problem, but you're coming with the solution or possible solutions to the problem.
If somebody came to me and said, Oh, see, we got this challenge here, it's this.
And I've got I've been thinking about it and I got two possible ideas.
What do you think?
And I might add my own ideas or I might say, Ooh, I like number two.
I'm so glad you brought that solution.
Let's go with number two.
Right.
So that might be an idea.
Be proactive and come with solutions, especially to problems.
Another thing that's really important in terms of managing up that can really help you in your career
is really to know your manager's goals.
You know what's important to them so much.
We focus on what's important to me, right?
I know what's important to me, me, me, me.
And I might even know as a good leader or a manager what's important to the team.
But do I truly understand what's important to my manager?
And if I understand even more about what might be important to my manager, or if I'm working cross-functionally
across organization to other leaders or managers in the organization, understanding what's important
to them helps me to communicate better, helps me understand maybe how to orientate or influence or
recommend things better.
If I understand my manager's goals and a good place to start with that is thinking about what is your
manager measured on?
You might have certain measures that you're measured on.
Are they the same as your managers?
Maybe your manager has different things that are they're measured on.
Then you are so understanding fully what your manager is being measured and evaluated on.
Also thinking about as much as you can know or guess because sometimes these things aren't public is
what are they rewarded for?
Do they receive their particular their own aspects for promotion for your boss to get promoted, which
is a good way to help you get promoted is get your boss promoted and you take the boss to the spot,
right?
So doing things that helps get your boss promoted is not a bad idea.
The other part is what are they rewarded on for maybe a bonus or a compensation standpoint?
Again, this might not be public or you might not understand it because it's not shared.
And for other bosses, they're like telling everybody like, this is what I'm evaluating on this one.
I'm bonus time, right?
Because they want everybody to know because they want them to all work on towards the same goals that
might help that manager in terms of rewards, like a bonus, for example.
So again, early in the course there was a part where I was talking about how I was bonus on managing
profits, right?
So I could increase sales or decrease costs to make things more profitable.
And then I would get more bonus money, money for myself based and get bonuses based on that being able
to be successful in those areas, increased sales, decrease costs.
So if you're managing up and you're coming to me with ideas or things, if they're ideas and things
are oriented around, how can we increase sales or decrease costs?
For me, I'm going to be all here, so I'm going to be very interested in that because it can help me
for my own reward aspect.
That doesn't mean that's all I think about is getting bonuses or whatever, but it doesn't really help
you understand the person you're working with, motivation on things that they're measured on, and
what they're rewarded on to.
Nothing when you're managing up is due respect.
Your manager's time right there.
Everybody's busy, we're all busy.
But manager is in particular.
And if you imagine really, you know what I'm saying?
We're really busy for many of the people we work with.
They might not think we're busy, but we're constantly thinking we're we got lots of different things
going on because as an individual contributor, I might most mostly not completely, but mostly think
about myself as a manager.
I might be thinking about five or ten other people, certainly the direct reports plus everybody that
they linked to as well, and other things that come out of out of nowhere from the organization, higher
in the organization to different part of the organization.
And certainly our customers, both internal and external customers.
What are they thinking?
So.
The answers have a lot going on.
So do respect your manager's time, get to the point, be proactive with your solutions to the problems,
those kind of things, but really respect your manager's time.
So when you do have time with your manager, it's very, very effective.
Another thing managers like is speaking up as needed.
Now we don't need somebody who's always complaining or always trying to be the center of attention,
and they're just real obvious, obvious about it.
But.
But they do speak up as needed.
Sometimes it's that quieter person who has the best ideas to have the best ways to contribute to the
organization.
And as leaders and managers, we need to get more out of those maybe quieter people sometimes, or just
leave them alone and let them be quiet and successful.
Either way, what do they need?
We provide them.
But in terms of managing up, there might be times where you're like, Oh, I don't want to say anything
or I don't want to speak up because I'm shy or because I'm nervous.
Because what if they hate my idea or whatever?
Well, it's better to speak up and be proactive then certainly let things become a problem or whatever.
But also think about that you're contributing.
So when you're speaking up, it's less about like, oh, complaining, like, oh my gosh, you know,
I'm complaining about this or our expense reports are so hard to fill out.
We're just complaining.
Nobody likes complaining.
But speaking up and coming with ideas or solutions or just speaking up in general to share your viewpoints,
those are very, very good things.
And managers want to hear them.
Just be respectful of their time and be on point, be on target.
And then lastly, you'll see the big picture.
Sometimes we are focused on our own little world, you know, and we focus on that.
And we think that's very important because it is very important and it's certainly very important to
us.
But understand that there's a bigger picture, there's a bigger organization out there.
There are customers out there and vendors and suppliers we work with, they're out there too.
So there's a bigger picture and you start seeing that big picture in the communities we might work in
and live in.
Right.
And that there's a bigger picture there.
So there is a bigger picture everywhere.
So start seeing that bigger picture and particularly seeing that bigger picture through your manager's
eyes.
Since we're talking about some tips on how to manage up better and how to work better with your manager,
start seeing that big picture not only through your eyes, but maybe through that big picture through
your manager size.
So a lot of times things come down.
Things come down to us.
Or like, this is the worst idea in the history of the world.
I can't believe they're making us do this.
And if you look at through your managers or the CEO or executives, I'd be like, okay, I don't like
it, but it makes sense, but I don't like it.
But I can understand where they're coming from in this and maybe there's some value to it.
Maybe I should open my mind a little bit as I'm seeing the big picture.
So those are five quick tips to help you manage up to really work better with your manager.
So and this is good for anybody.
You can use these types of tips and maybe there are some of these types of tips you want to share with
your team, right?
Say, like, here are some ideas on how to work with me better and pick a couple like you should know
you're going to bring a problem.
Please bring a solution or two every once in a while.
You don't get to do it every time.
I don't want to stifle problems, but hey, it's really nice if you bring a solution every once in a
while so you can use these tips even when you're working with your own teams that you might be leading
or managing.

--- Ethical Challenges ---

Okay.
Let's talk something very important.
That's ethics.
And at the end of this lesson, I'm going to share a specific ethical dilemma that I found myself into.
And you can see how I how I handled it.
So when we talk about ethics, be ethical.
All right.
That's brilliant, right?
Like, wow, so brilliant.
Be ethical.
But the thing is, being ethical, you should do it, of course, and do the right thing.
But let me tell you, it can be hard if we're going to talk realism here.
It's sometimes it can be hard.
It can be hard for you.
It can be hard for other people.
So recognize that sometimes it can be hard.
You still need to do it.
You still need to be ethical.
You certainly still need to do things legally or you're going to get in trouble and get fined or go
to jail.
But ethics is that kind of that area where it's not necessarily legal or it's not necessarily illegal,
but it's still a bad thing.
So try to be ethical, but understand it can be hard.
And why can it be hard?
Well, it can be hard in that many times than what you're being asked to do.
Or maybe sometimes you're considering doing something on your own.
You're not even having somebody to ask you to do something unethical.
You're maybe thinking something that's like, Oh, is this a little unethical?
And you can kind of you can kind of tell it because you're starting to think a little bit about it and
thinking about, is this legal?
So that's one thing or is it simply unethical, which is a bad thing.
Legal, of course, as punishments, unethical things can have punishments too.
You can lose your job, you can get trouble, all sorts of things.
But you might be asked to do something in your mind.
You might be thinking, Well, maybe this is okay and maybe it is okay.
Maybe it really, truly isn't unethical.
But that's the thing you're going to wrestle with is, is this okay?
Should I be doing this?
And a lot of times our ethics always have.
A lot of times their their base then is conflict of rewards and punishment.
Right?
Oh, if I do this behavior that maybe I'm being asked to do, I will get rewards.
I will get paid extra money, I'll get promoted, I'll get a bonus.
I might be getting promises from my manager if I just do this thing.
And then the other side is like, Yeah, but if I do that thing one, I'll feel terrible and it's wrong.
And oh, by the way, I might get fired or I might go to jail.
There's this conflict of rewards and punishment, and we shouldn't put people in this situation.
People should get rewards and opportunities based on their work performance, not based on unethical
behavior.
So that's that's philosophically true, but that's part of what makes it hard, because the rewards
can seem so bright and glittery and all we want them so bad.
And that's when unethical behavior can start creeping in or that potential, or it can be higher because
we start rationalizing it, right?
We start rationalizing and we think, well, maybe if I just engage in this unethical behavior just
one time, it won't be a big deal.
I'm just going to do it this one time.
That's it.
I'm willing to do it one time.
Wow.
Do we know?
One time becomes the next time and it becomes many times, and now you've got a problem, right?
So there's rationalization with that.
But also you might rationalize around like, well, everyone else is doing it.
I'm getting left behind.
Everybody else is doing it.
You understand, Steve?
Everybody does this here.
Well, that can actually lead to bigger, wider issues.
Right.
You see these things in the news where entire companies have big fines and things because they've had
a culture of an ethical behavior or turned a blind eye to it.
In the end, the company might pay a lot of government fines, for example, and regulatory fines.
But for the individual people who are engaging in unethical behavior while they're going to jail at
the worst, at one extreme or the other extreme, they're getting let go or fired, right?
Both.
Not good outcomes for them.
Company can keep moving on in most cases.
But you who is engaging in an ethical behavior?
If you think well, because everyone else is doing it well then everybody's getting fired.
I've had to be brought into situations I brought in.
It wasn't my branch.
But I was brought in to investigate another branch and really kind of take take over there and see what's
going on.
I fired everybody there engaged in such it was only five people in the manager and I took picked up
this branch.
It was a manager and five people.
And I looked at what they were doing and how they were doing stuff and they had some good performance
because they were lying and cheating.
And I got through it and then I partner with my boss and I partnered with h.R.
And I said to them, this is what we're going to do.
I'm going to go in next week.
I'm going to fire everybody.
Well, how are we going to run the branch like we're going to shut the branch down for until we get
people hired or I'm going to bring people from these other locations, from other parts of the country,
and we're going to staff that temporarily until we can get hired up.
But right now, everybody has to be fired for this unethical behavior.
So that's not an extreme.
Well, without sharing the exact details on it, it was extreme enough that that was the decision that
was I wanted to make and that was fully supported by my boss and human resources and the executive team
above me, above them, because that was pretty extreme thing, but they were doing extreme unethical
behavior.
So if everyone else is doing it, I understand you can get caught up on that and some guy like me is
going to come in and fire everybody.
Also, sometimes we rationalize because the boss asked me to do it, so it must be okay and the boss
asked me to do it.
Then it's okay, right?
Well, no, if it's unethical and when I'm going to share my own on my own ethical challenge coming
up here in just a moment, was a situation where the boss asked me to do something.
And I knew it was unethical how to respond to that.
So a lot of times the boss is asking you to do something.
It's either they don't know because they're being dumb, because they don't know.
But most what you're being asked is unethical of you.
But a lot of times it's like it's unethical because they know it's unethical and they're wanting to
help get their own rewards, bonuses, whatever, by by corrupting others in effect.
Right.
So you use your resources as far as going to human resources that boss's boss talking to that boss directly.
I'll share my example here.
Coming up, you know, ways of kind of working through that, but it can be a real challenging situation.
And sometimes we're in challenging situations where we just have to leave the company because it just
ain't going to work out.
And sometimes it's something we can work through, but it's just because the boss says to do it doesn't
mean it's ethical.
Okay, so I'm asking you to be ethical in everything you do.
And if that if that is to help, then think of this.
There's obvious downsides to unethical behavior.
I mean, they're pretty obvious.
Go through them quickly.
You didn't get in trouble, right?
Obviously got in trouble for unethical behavior.
Your reputation is tarnished either within the organization or if you're let go, you might be tarnished
outside your organization.
Have a hard time finding another job.
Your reputation is tarnished.
You might have a written reprimand that's now in your file.
And so if somebody is looking to promote you or something down in the future, they'll pull up this
whole write up about how you are an ethical and that might just kill your future with the company.
Certainly many times when people engage in unethical behavior, depending on the degree of the unethical
behavior, their employment can be terminated.
Office.
You're out of a job, right?
Maybe it's something that rises to the level of not only being an ethical, but actually rises to the
level of also being illegal.
So there can be fines or you can go to jail for unethical behavior because it's illegal as well, too.
And in the end, you know, there's guilt.
Somebody might have that rationalization on it, but in the end they have guilt.
It might be spiritual consequences for you if you have feelings about from a spiritual standpoint and
you're going to carry all this guilt and it'll haunt you because of this unethical behavior.
So whether you're very practical, I'm like, I could get fired or something more spiritual, like,
Oh my gosh, I'm corrupting my immortal soul by doing this.
Or I'm corrupting others who are engaging in unethical behavior on my behalf because I'm a well respected
leader, a manager who happens to be engaged in unethical behavior.
It's something that you might want to change and stop and go down a different path, right?
So we know being ethical is hard by nature.
It can be hard, is harder for some than others.
For some, it can be very easy.
No way.
I know.
I'm real confident myself.
I get it.
And then other people are like, No, I understand.
So understand.
There is a spectrum of it, but in the end it is sort of black and white.
You're either performing or doing things that are ethical matter or you're or you're not in an unethical
manner.

--- Example Of An Ethical Challenge Instructor Faced ---

Let me share with you an ethical dilemma that I faced.
To give you an idea of maybe how you can approach maybe your own challenging type ethical dilemmas.
And this is a real challenging one, because not only was it my boss giving me pressure to engage in
unethical behavior, which is always challenging, but there were some good rewards related to it too.
So it'd be like, Oh, I could please my boss, or at least get him off my back and I could get paid
a bunch of money.
Well, that makes it a challenging, hard decision.
Unless you're an ethical person, then it's not so hard.
But then how do you how do you how do you get out of this situation can be challenging.
So we're going to see some of these things as we go through a particular dilemma that I faced years
ago.
So here's what happened.
I was the manager of a location of a branch.
I had like dozens of people at the branch, and I ran one of the large and largest branches in this
other manager's, my boss's district.
Right?
So he's got like a dozen different branches and I'm his largest branch.
In fact, I'm as large as his next two largest branch combined.
So I happen to be very impactful for his results.
And we were running the company was running a contest.
Right.
And they would give you a bonus if you did a certain thing, which was we sold products and if we sold
a certain type of product more of this particular product during a certain time period, during the
end of the year, tight time period, we would get a bonus as the manager of a branch and the bonus
is pretty good.
He'd get ten, he was $10,000 and $10,000 or $10,000.
That's a really good bonus because they really want to motivate people through money to focus on selling
this particular product.
So my, my, my boss who has all these different branches, has a bonus too tied to this program.
I'm not sure what it was, but I bet it was a lot more than what I was going to get, which was the
10,000.
And he comes to me and he says, You know, Steve.
We can get this bonus, you can get a bonus.
And I as the manager can get a bonus, you know, let's all get a bonus together.
Like, Yeah, that sounds good.
Let's all get bonuses.
He says, All I need you to do is X, Y and Z just to X, Y and Z.
And I thought, and I paused for a second to explain what X, Y and Z was.
Just to keep it simple and like, well, this sounds like a lot of manipulative manipulation.
In fact, it was manipulation.
It was very unethical.
And like X is like shaky, like really borderline unethical.
But the idea is for Y and Z were total lies, cheating, manipulation, manipulating numbers.
I mean, stuff you're going to get fired for immediately if you're found out, right?
So he's saying, yeah, let's do this, and then you'll get a bonus and you know, and that'll be great
for you.
And I know in the back of my mind.
Yeah.
And you'll get a bonus too.
But probably bear in mind that's OC.
But I might also get fired if I find out.
Plus it's wrong.
Plus it's unethical.
It wasn't illegal, but it was unethical for sure, and I would certainly get fired if I was found out.
But on the other hand, I'd be like, But if I don't get caught, I could get a 10,000 bonus.
Plus, my boss is giving me a lot of pressure on this side.
Please.
The boss, right?
I please the boss.
I get 10,000.
We're all happy.
I just have to be unethical.
Well, I can't be unethical.
It's just wrong I spiritually and mentally and all that.
I could not do that.
Plus, if I'm found out, I'm fired and.
And I like that job.
So I had to really think about this.
And I said to him, and this is maybe you can try to if you're facing a similar thing.
I said, you know, there are some challenging things with this.
I mean, X, I'm not so sure.
Y and Z, they don't sound right to me.
In fact, I'm feeling uncomfortable.
So that's a phrase you can use.
I'm feeling uncomfortable.
You can kind of maybe wake some people up who are pressuring you for one, but also get you thinking
about this a little bit more.
So I'm uncomfortable.
You're going to be here next week.
Why don't when when you get together next week?
Let's talk about this some more and let me think about this and we'll talk about this some more.
But I want to let you know I'm uncomfortable with this, especially with Y and Z X is this, but Y and
Z.
And I explained to him while I was uncomfortable because this seems like this seems to manipulation,
seems like unethical.
I might put my job in jeopardy if you're asking me this, this might put your job in jeopardy.
And I don't want that for you because I like you as a boss stroking a little eagle there, I guess.
But but it's like, hey, let's think about this, what you're asking me to do.
And like, och.
And he says, okay, let's talk about it in a week, right?
Because we still have time.
We talk about a week if we do these manipulation effect.
So then I went home and I thought about it.
I talked with my wife about it in great detail.
It's always good to talk to trusted people, especially if they're outside.
The organization can be very helpful for you.
But it was more not about what I do it.
I just knew what was wrong in my heart.
I knew I wouldn't do it.
It was like, How do I get out of this situation?
What would my boss think?
Would he be Alison?
Would I be a target now or whatever?
And in the end, I had to think to myself.
In the end, I have to do what's right.
I have to do what's right.
That's who I am.
And though I like this job I was at and I think the 10,000 would be nice in terms of bonus, I can get
that bonus, hopefully a legal unethical way anyways, but certainly I just don't engage in that behavior.
So then the next week comes and I got to tell the person this and I said to him, Well, let me tell
you how I feel and and why I'm not going to do this.
And then I explain to him about X, Y and Z.
And I said, Look, John, this is wrong, man.
This is not this is going to put you in a crosshair.
You know, don't do this.
Don't ask other people.
I'm telling him, don't ask other people do this.
Because if you get another one, your is doing it.
I won't know.
But if another one of the people reports you does it and they get caught, well, they're going to blame
you and they're going to get fired and you're going to get fired and it's not worth the risk.
We can get there anyways.
And he I know for whatever reason that really impressed upon him and I don't know if I was the final
tipping point or whatever.
I am sure he because he was a good guy actually deep down I think the boy he struggled with this one
this is he came to me remember what the idea that was a terrible idea.
And, you know, he said to me, you know, I went to a couple of your peers, I won't name who they
are, but a couple of your other managers.
And they were they were right on board right away with it.
And I thought, well, maybe this is okay, but we're listening to you now, Steve.
I'm really rethinking this.
I'm not going to ask you to do it.
I'm not going to put pressure on you to do it.
In fact, I probably will go to these other managers and tell them not to do it and maybe explain to
them better some of the reasons that you shared with me, because I was having troubles with it too
as well.
Maybe he was getting pressure from his boss up the chain for all I know.
And so that was good.
And he did.
And I know nobody, you know, I learned later, nobody engaged in this behavior.
And I asked him later, why did you come to me?
What do you think?
I was corruptible.
You know, this is now months later, right?
And and he said, no.
I went to a couple of the other managers because, frankly, I thought they would go along.
One was newer.
One was somebody who always follows what I tell them, and I thought I could influence them better.
I went to, you see, not because I thought I could.
You were more corruptible.
It was because you had.
The largest.
You have the largest branch.
Right.
Remember, I'm as big as the next two people combined.
So if he gets a couple of people to engage in ethical behavior and gets me as the big branch to engage
in it, now he can hit his bonus just by that.
So he doesn't have to corrupt everybody.
He just had to corrupt some of the people.
And that's sometimes what you see too, where they're like, for whatever reason, they're corrupting
some of the people, sometimes these people, because they're more susceptible to be doing corrupted
sometimes like in my case, I was not susceptible to be corrupted and totally resisted, by the way,
but I was more impactful if you could get me on board.
So those are something to think about too.
Now you might ask yourself, Well, why didn't I tell them?
Well, you know, he never engaged in it for one, so he never thinking about unethical behavior is
not actually doing unethical behavior.
Maybe it's different.
It depends on your organization.
Maybe if you're aware of such things, you need to go right away.
I was encouraging him not to make this mistake and help him to be a better manager and a better person
and certainly protecting myself as best I could.
But also he didn't engage in the behavior.
But if it had come to that, if it had come to where somebody especially asking me or I felt compelled
because I seen everybody else cheating to go to upper management, say, hey, they're making their
bonuses because they cheated.
Let me tell you what they're probably doing because I was approached.
Well, then that's the right thing to do, right?
Again, it depends.
Your organization, you know, what their policies are and things like that, whistle blower protections,
those kind of things.
So sometimes unethical behavior, it doesn't rise to where you have to actively now tell everybody.
It rises to where you have to make the right decision in your own situation.
And that's the thing to take away from.
That is what's good for your own situation, what is right and just what is good for the overall organization,
what is good for your customers.
You know, again, that customer focus and then following your company's policies and procedures, they
have these things there for a reason to help people, whether it's anonymous tips or whether it's a
whistleblower protection or some people that you can trust in the organization, particularly if you're
seeing this behavior happening, you don't necessarily have to be the martyr you have, but maybe you
need to be the person to start shedding light on the ethical behavior.
In fact, that's always a a common way of thinking about unethical behavior is would you want what you're
doing published in the newspaper?
Right.
Or would you want to tell your grandma that you did this type of unethical behavior?
And would they think it's okay, the general public or your grandmother?
And the answer is no, they wouldn't, and it's probably unethical.
So that's just one example for me.
I would want to share that example for for you.
I will tell you that it helped me by overcoming this really challenging, unethical situation early
in my career.
It helped me be stronger for ethics, for other unethical things that were temptations, either from
my own thought process, which I then had to say, That's wrong, Steve, don't do that.
Or from pressure from other people either way, by having that kind of that already, having an experience
can be very helpful.
So if you've had an ethical situations that you've overcome, use those as strength.
If you had some that you haven't overcome or you're really not sure about, well, try to disengage
or stop that unethical behavior.
Do the right thing going forward and think about how you could maybe change things going forward in
terms of how you would approach a situation.
The thing is, each situation is individual and different to each one, but you, you as a person is
the same in each situation.
And whether you want to be ethical or be tempted.

--- How To Be A Star Leader Or Manager ---

So you want to be a star?
Do you want to be a star, whether in a leadership role or maybe you're in a formal management role
or you're both leading and managing or whatever?
Do you want to be a star?
Do you want to be a star at work or whatever organization you're working with, whether it's a company
or maybe some type of volunteer organization or government, whatever it might be?
Do you want to be a star leader or manager?
Here's a quick tip for you.
Then let your team and individuals be the star.
If you want to be a star, let others be the star.
And that can be such a hard thing to grasp or do, because for many people, we want the spotlight on
ourselves.
We want to be seen as the leader, as the hero, the hero of our own story.
And we can be the hero of our story for sure.
But one way to be heroic is by leading that team and letting individuals be heroic in their own story.
So I just want to share with that.
It's a little philosophical, I get it.
But I tell you, it can be so impactful that if you start changing your mindset about what's how can
I be the star to how can I help them to be the star and then buy their success, then you're successful
to a particularly if you're on a leadership or management role.
Your success is so dependent on the success of the people you're working with, right?
This is why the whole course is about leading and managing people, because it's the people that make
difference.
People make difference in the world.
You make a difference in the world and you have actually an outsized impact on the world because you
are chosen or being asked to be in leadership or management roles.
You can have an outsized impact on many people and on the world.
And again, if you want to be a star, hey, let those other people be the star.
Let your team let them individuals.
Let them be the star.

--- Top 4 Action Steps + Extra Step ---

Congratulations.
You finished the course.
That's terrific.
That's absolutely great.
In fact, you know that most people take online training, don't complete the courses.
So the fact that you have is excellent and really well done.
I congratulate you on it.
Let me leave you with a top four action steps, plus an optional extra step as well to kind of get you
on your way.
So first off, review lessons as needed.
There might be some lessons that meant more to you or were more impactful for you, or it can be more
helpful.
Review them these lessons as you need or ongoing in the future.
Whenever you need the lessons they're there for you, Go and review the lessons right away.
Pick 1 to 2 areas right now to really focus on from one of the lessons and focus in some areas that
were can be real impactful for you.
Next is develop your plan and take action right.
You picked out some areas and now it's a matter of having a plan and doing it, doing it, taking action.
Learning without action is not really making a big, big difference.
It's great to be knowledgeable, but it's another thing to be action oriented.
As leaders and or managers, we need to be action oriented.
So develop your plan.
Take action.
And I'm such a big believer in continuing education, lifelong learning and all that.
And certainly in things that have areas like leadership and management, it's not a one time thing.
It's not like you learn it and you're done.
There's lots of nuances, lots of different things.
You can learn lots of different perspectives.
You can learn to.
So do continue your education, continue your online learning.
If you're interested in other courses for me, hope you are well.
Just type ste balancer by full name or copy and paste it right into the search.
It should actually automatically fill and you can see all the courses I have.
I have manager courses, leadership courses, time management, productivity courses and actually I'm
really into investing.
So I have a lot of really high performing investing courses.
So if you like investing in things like stock market, cryptocurrency bonds, hey, I've got courses
on that as well too because it's interested in it.
And then lastly, as an extra step, please leave a review that's very helpful for me and is very helpful
for other students.
Kind of see the reviews and things.
You don't have to necessarily leave a comment if you don't want to, but certainly leave a review would
be great.
So it's an extra step.
And as a favor for me, maybe go ahead and leave a review.
And then lastly, I want you to know that the world needs great leaders and managers.
The world needs you.
So apply what you learn.
The world needs great layers of managers.
The world needs you.
And because of that, I want to say thank you.
Thank you for completing the course.
Thank you for taking the course.
I really appreciate spending this time with you.
And so I want to wrap up the course and say thank you.
Thank you so much.
And I wish you all the best in your future endeavors.

--- Bonus: Lets Keep The Learning Going ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]
