

=== Introduction ===


--- Introduction ---

Hello.
Welcome to my Intermediate to Advanced course on Monday.
I'm a project manager that has been using Monday and other project management tools for years.
In this course, we're going to learn all the best practices and advanced features that you can use
in Monday in order to manage successful projects.
We're going to look at how we properly do sprint planning.
In Monday, we're going to have a look at how we set up a project approval board.
We're going to look at the difference between a high level board and a low level board, and how we
can actually connect the two boards together.
We're going to talk about a lot of best practices for agile project management, for collaboration,
and for saving time.
We're going to have a look at many useful features within Monday.
For example, how do we properly use the whiteboard?
How we can use online docs and a lot of other useful features and best practices that you're going to
learn over the next two hours.
Monday is such a great tool, and this course is going to bring your skill level to the next level.
You're going to learn from someone that's got years of experience using the tool, and it's definitely
gonna help you in order to manage projects more efficiently.
Let's get going and proceed with the first lesson.


=== Monday.com features for productivity ===


--- Batch Actions ---

Welcome to the first lesson.
In this section, I'm going to show you a lot of useful features in Monday that you may miss if someone
doesn't show you how to properly use them.
And what are the best practices?
The first thing that you want to do is create a board that you can play around with.
If you have one at the moment that you can use to learn this new features, you can go ahead and use
it.
Otherwise, what you can do is you can click on add.
Then you can click on new from template.
Click on See More templates.
And the one that I'm going to be using is going to be powerful project management.
If you don't see it here recommended for you just.
Just type powerful project management.
And you can just click on use.
And this is going to be loaded to your Monday.com account.
Here's what it's going to look like.
And let's have a look at batch actions.
Now what can be quite annoying when you lead different projects is that during a meeting, you go through
the different statuses of some activities and then you have to amend, for example, the status of each
one of them individually.
Imagine that during a meeting you discuss 20 items and you find out that from the 20 items you have
to update 18 from from no status to in progress.
What most people will do is go here and then one by one switch them to working on it, working on it,
working on it.
And they will do this 18 times, for example.
Now what you can do in order to make this process more efficient is to use the batch actions functionality.
So for example, on planning let's click on planning here.
The first option is for you to select Select All activities.
This is going to select all the activities within this group.
And then you can click on status and change the status of everything by using just one click.
Let me change it back now.
If you want more flexibility, another option that you have is to.
Click for example on the first one.
The second one.
And let's say that you want to select everything up to activity two.
Then if you hold the shift key.
Hold the shift key and press here on activity two.
This is going to select all the items until activity two.
And then once you click on status here and changes to working on it, you're going to be able now to
change just the four activities where you got an update that the status has been changed.
And this is going to save you a lot of time.
Let's go ahead to execution now.
And let's say that we select all items.
Select all activities.
And let's say that we found out that all activities are going to be all.
Let's say the first activity is going to be delayed with two days, which means that if there is a dependency
on the first activity, all the other activities within execution will be delayed also with two days.
Then what you can do is just select them all.
Click on the days here and use the option at the bottom.
Shift selected items by days and from here you can shift all the selected items with two days.
Just click on shift.
And all the items are shifted without you having to go individually through each item on the list.
Another great option that you have is this bar here that was introduced by Monday, which allows you
to do certain things on only the selected activities.
For example, all the activities that have now selected or all items that have selected.
I can duplicate them.
This is really useful.
For example, if you have recurrent activities and you you just want to copy and paste the same activities
that you have already on the board.
If you want to update someone on the status of certain activities, you can export these items from
here.
You can archive and delete them and you can also move them, which makes it so much easier to do the
admin work on your project on multiple items at the same time.
And this is going to save you a lot of time in the long run by just knowing this.
Small features available in Monday batch actions are one of my favorite features in Monday, and I know
for sure that for myself, they saved me a lot of hours every single month on managing my projects.
Let's now proceed to the next lesson.

--- Use a Whiteboard within Monday.com! ---

Welcome back.
In this lesson, I'm going to show you how to use the whiteboarding feature in Monday.com.
Whiteboards are something that a lot of teams enjoy using because they can be great for brainstorming
sessions, and there's just something special about how they can make you more creative in terms of
finding a solution to a problem.
This is why Monday introduced a great view on whiteboarding that you can use.
What you need to do is click on all views here and from Add View.
You see here that we have the standard views table timeline, Gantt chart, calendar.
So what you need to do is click on apps and start searching for whiteboards in the search box.
And straight away this is gonna appear here.
So I'm just going to add the view.
And they're going to name it Whiteboard Club for collaboration.
Here's our whiteboard.
This is a great place to brainstorm ideas with your teammates, or your team.
Members that have access to the board will be able to find the whiteboard here.
You don't have to give them any special permissions in order for them to use it, and you can use the
whiteboard with your team at the same time.
You see that here?
Here's my name.
And as soon as your teammates start using it, you're going to see their names next to yours as well.
And everyone can work on the whiteboard at the same time.
You can change the color here and you can draw.
Strategy.
2022.
You can use text to add text here.
Increase revenue by 20%.
Higher.
Finally more people and etc. you can use the first arrow here in order to move what you have done so
I can move the text for example.
Or you can select the whole drawing that I did, and I can also move it around with this option.
You can also insert images from an image URL.
Just copy the image address from the internet and here it is.
And you can erase something using the last option.
Here.
You just select it like I did on the image and then you just click on delete.
If you want to delete the whole thing, you do it from here and start over again.
If you want to see your plan.
At the same time, you can click on settings and click on Split Mode.
And then I can have my whiteboard at the top and my plan at the bottom, and I can scroll it and see.
Let me switch back to full screen view.
Here it is.
If you want to really focus on the whiteboard, you can click on Open Full Screen.
And this is going to make your full screen only display the whiteboard.
This is usually what I do when working with my team using the whiteboard.
And this is how you use the whiteboard app within Monday in order to collaborate with your team.
Enjoy using it.
Let's now proceed to the next lesson.


=== Advanced Project Management best practices - Don't depend on Templates ===


--- Using the Favorites Workspace ---

Hey.
Welcome back.
Something that may seem like a basic feature is the possibility to make some of your boards favorite.
So, for example, if this portfolio management board is one of the things that I look every single
day, there is no need for me to go through a lot of different workspaces and folders in order to find
it.
Now, in our case here, the structure is not very complex.
We only have a few workspaces, and within these few workspaces we have a few folders with a few boards.
However, when you start working in a real environment in a corporation, at some point here it's going
to be like a wild West.
So you're going to have dozens of different workspaces within these workspaces.
We're going to have many different folders.
You're going to have a lot of boards, and if you don't have a proper roles in the company on how to
structure all these workspaces, it can be really hard to find things that you need on a daily basis.
So this is why I always tend to make favorites of the boards and dashboards that I use on a daily basis.
So what I usually do is, for example, if I use this board, I make it a favorite from here from the
options are to favorites.
If I'm using something else, like for example, this dashboard are also going to make it a favorite.
And then from another workspace I'm going to choose what I'm using so I don't have to go through every
single workspace.
And then when I come to Monday.com, I simply go to favorites.
And here I have a list of, for example, the 5 or 6 different boards and dashboards that I need on
a regular basis.
And what's even better is that Monday recently introduced the option to actually add folders to your
favorites, so you can actually add folders here.
By the way, in order to add a folder, you first need to add a board or a dashboard here, just keep
that in mind and then you can further split your work.
So for example for example daily for things that you're checking daily.
Weekly.
Manfred.
This is just one use case.
If you want them like this in a specific format, obviously you can have different folders for different
departments or whatever works for you.
But if I need to advise you on something is definitely start using favorites and even if not in the
beginning, once you get into a more complex environment with a lot of boards, we have all heard about
information overload, so we're going to be much more effective if you place the things that you actually
need to work on in here under favorites.
So that's it.
Let's now proceed to the next lesson.


=== File Management in Monday.com ===


--- Conditional Coloring ---

Welcome back.
In order to take your Monday.com project management to the next level, you can think about using some
of the nice little features that Monday recently introduced.
For example, you can use the conditional coloring.
I find this really useful in order to make it very clear that some tasks will take a longer time, or
they will require more resources.
So for example, here we have the planned effort.
Maybe I want to highlight anything that's above 30 hours, which will be a clear flag to management
and to and for the project team that we will need to keep an eye on this item and allocate the necessary
resources in order to complete it on time.
So you just click on conditional coloring and from here you select the column that you want.
For example I want to select Planned Effort and you put the condition here I'm going to make this anything
that's equal or above 30.
And obviously you have some other options some project managers use.
This is empty.
For example, if you have a column that you definitely you want the team to populate, you can tag this
as is empty.
So you straight away gonna see where you still missing information, but I just put the condition equal
or above 30.
And now all my items that are planned to take more than 30 hours are gonna be flagged for me.
And you can add multiple conditions here.
Now keep in mind that if we pretty much do the same kind of conditional formatting with the exact same
condition, the second condition is going to be the one that's going to be displayed on the board.
So now everything is going to be switched to the second condition here.
And this is how you use conditional coloring to bring attention to a specific item.
Let's now proceed to the next lesson.


=== Other useful info to know ===


--- The Bolt Switch ---

When you start using Monday more extensively for all the projects that you're involved in, and especially
if within your organization Monday is used, then you end up with dozens of different spaces, right?
Just let me create a few.
So you're gonna have a lot of spaces, and you're gonna have a lot of projects within the spaces.
And it can be really hard to find something.
I've been at a place where I've had my work Monday populated with hundreds of projects, and it takes
a lot of time to find what I'm looking for.
The great news is that Monday has got this feature called the Boat Switch, which is this one here,
which allows you to really quickly find the project that you're looking for.
So let's just click on it.
And I say that I know that the project that I'm looking for is daily team tasks.
I can just start typing it and here it is.
I can open it straight away from here.
This way, using keywords, you can really quickly find what you need.
Projects I find the projects one.
And I don't have to scroll.
I can switch really easily.
And also remember that there is a shortcut.
So for Mac it's command and B, and for a PC it's control and B in order to open the boat switch.
This was just a quick tip on how to navigate through Monday to make it easier for you, let's now proceed
to the next lesson.


=== Integrations ===


--- Deadline Mode ---

Welcome back.
The deadline mode feature in Monday is something that our advise you to use on all your boards, and
let's see how this works.
It's already applied on the timeline within this template.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to click on the options and I'm going to remove the deadline mode.
Now if I again click on the options and click on set as a deadline, I can link this column to the status
column in order to say that if the status column is not set to complete, then this is going to trigger
a notification that I'm beyond the deadline.
You also have the option to link this to a person column so I can link it to the owner.
And then I'm just going to connect the columns.
And here's what happens now.
If a task is overdue, it's going to be in red.
And when you hover over it, it's going to say exactly when it was due, for example, due yesterday.
Then when you hover over the other tasks, it's gonna let you know how many days you have until the
deadline.
If I switch the status column for one of these tasks.
So let's say, for example, I switch this to done.
Straight away it's going to say done.
One day after deadline.
So it's going to remember here that this was done.
But it wasn't done on time because it was done one day after the deadline.
I still have one day until this deadline here.
So if I set this to done now, and if I hover over this, it's just going to say done on time.
I have two days here.
So if I click on done it's going to just say done on time.
So it's not going to say done two days before the deadline for example.
You also have the option to define what's a done status in the status column.
So if I click on the status column and go to Column Settings.
From here you can define what's the status done.
For example, if you don't really have done but you have something else such as completed and it's a
different color, for example, working on it just just as an example, you can add it here.
This is useful because, for example, if there's some tasks that were cancelled or put on hold and
you don't want them to be flagged as beyond deadline, you can mark them here.
Because in some projects there are some optional tasks that due to the decision, they're not going
to be completed.
You may decide to add a status for them so you don't have it displayed as beyond deadline.
Okay, I'm going to take this off.
So I'm just going to leave down here on the settings.
As a project manager, I always also select the option Add Date reminders in this template here.
There's already some automations done, so you see that there is the automation when status changes
to done, set actual date to current date, which is a great automation to have on all of your boards.
If you have an actual date when timeline arrives and status is not done, change it to stock.
This is just an optional one.
I really don't want it at the moment, so I'm gonna switch it off.
When actual date arrives, notify item subscribers and another one that you can do.
And I always do it.
Go to due dates.
October when a date arrives 9 a.m. and.
Status.
Is not done.
This item seems to be delayed.
And then you notify the owner.
Or you can notify here the project manager.
This way you make sure that items get updated on time, because I find it that in a lot of these projects,
people actually working on the items and sometimes they have even completed them, but they simply don't
log into the project management software in order to update their item.
So it's a good idea to set these reminders so they get a notification in their mailbox, which is going
to prompt them to update their items.
This is going to avoid a lot of unnecessary follow up.
That's how you set the deadline mode and some best practices on following up with your team.
Let's now proceed to the next lesson.


=== App Development in Monday ===


--- Collaborate better using Online Docs features ---

Welcome back.
In this lesson, I'm going to show you the online docs application in Monday.
When working on a project, one of the tasks that requires a lot of collaboration is working on documents
and preparing documents, such as.
You need to prepare the business case.
You need to prepare some other word document for the stakeholder.
All this means a lot of collaboration within the team, and it can become really hard to constantly
having to save this in a certain platform, a SharePoint or some other website where you need to go
every time in order to get to your document and work on it.
Monday.
Solve this by introducing online docs.
Using online docs, you're going to be able to embed documents inside Monday and collaborate on them
straight away from the Monday website, without the need to even leave the Monday.com website.
Let me show you how this works.
So from views I'm going to click on Add View and I'm going to go to apps.
And I'm going to look for online docs online docs.
And I'm going to add this.
Online docs works by copy and pasting an embed link here.
Now keep in mind this should be an embed link.
It shouldn't be a simple URL.
In this way you'll be able to actually input the document within the screen here.
So this creates another view for us which is called online docs.
And what we want to do here is now on this screen embed the document.
The example that I'm going to show you is a CV.
So what we'll try to do is to embed a CV from our Google Docs environment.
So this is my Google Docs environment.
Let me open the first one here.
So this is a template for CV and I want to embed it to my Monday.com project.
So what I'll do is I'll click on.
File, then I'll click on share.
And I want to get a link.
So I'm going to copy the link.
And once I've copied the link, I'm gonna go back to Monday.
And here I'm going to paste it here.
And I'm going to name the link CV.
And I'm going to click on Embed link.
So here's the file here on the right.
And here's the actual CV in the middle.
So you can see that I can actually start collaborating collaborating on this straight away here with
my team.
So everyone with an access to the board will be able to update the CV here now.
And in this way you can work on the same document with your team at the same time and collaborate properly.
So the great news is that money is so smart that because this is a template divided into sections in
word, it even divides the sections here.
So I can quickly switch to skills from the menu here.
And here it is.
So for example, if I had a document that was 50 pages when I was when I clicked on a different section,
it's going to jump to the section.
And let's say I make some updates.
Example.
So I changed this to example.
And just like this, I can update that experience.
Project manager.
Then I can go to a different board.
I'll go to the main table and when you go back from views to online docs.
You see, this is going to be on the right and here it is.
The details are saved so everyone in the team can collaborate.
There is no limit to what you can embed here.
You can even embed a map from Google Maps, for example.
You just need the embed link.
And you can use this in order to collaborate on any document that you need to do within your project.
And if you want to export it, just click on File Download and then you can download it in a few different
options here.
Let me, for example, download it in PDF.
This is going to be downloaded here.
And when you open it just like that, you worked with your team within Monday.com to collaborate on
a document.
And the end result is a PDF that you can use for any reason that you need.
This is a new feature that I tend to use all the time to collaborate on documents, so I just want to
show it to you because I believe it can be really useful.
If your team doesn't want to actually amend the document, they can put some comments for you to review.
So for example here, an experience where I put project manager, if I right click I can put a comment.
We need to review this part.
For example, I can comment on this and here's the comment going to be on the right and you're going
to have it highlighted in yellow.
So let me do one more.
Just example comment.
Okay.
So if I, for example, click on the first one, this is gonna highlight for me the comment that someone
from my team made.
And if I click on the second one, same thing is going to happen.
Another option that you have here is to.
Use suggest edits.
We should skip this position and you can actually mention someone.
In order to tag them, so they receive a notification that you've either suggested an edit or commented
on their document only.
Docs is a great feature.
I definitely gonna advise you to have a look at it and try to use it within your team in the long run,
once you get used to it, I believe it's going to be one of the most useful things you'll find in Monday.
If you're getting an error when trying to embed a document.
I've seen this a lot of times within my team, and most of the time it is because, for example, the
link that you are trying to embed is not embedded link, and in some cases some sites don't allow embedding
and we will not allow for you to embed their links externally.
But this is going to work for things such as Google Drive, OneDrive and other places where people normally
keep their documents online.
This is how you use online docs.
Let's now proceed to the next lesson.


=== Next Steps ===


--- Make the team focus on outstanding work - archive done tasks ---

Welcome back.
In this lesson I'm going to teach you how to keep your board in Monday clean so your team can be focused
on the items that are really important.
If you have a lot of tasks within your plan.
And let's say, for example, at the moment in this plan we have only about 20 tasks.
But in most projects that I've been part of over the years, we've had probably close to 100 tasks,
and it can be really hard to focus on what's important within this plan if you have the done tasks also
within it.
For example, what we see now on this board is that the first two groups here, planning and execution,
we have one, two, three.
Nine tasks in total.
However, six of these tasks have already been completed, so in reality we only have three tasks here.
So what you may decide to do is to archive the done tasks and only leave the tasks that are still to
be done, so your team can focus on what's really important.
And this way you actually put a bit more urgency on your team, because when you look at the plan and
from 20 tasks, you have 18 completed, it's just human nature that this relaxes you.
You think, oh, okay, so I've done 18 out of the 20 tasks, so we're good even if this task is near
the deadline.
If we did everything else on time, then then we should be able to do it.
But in my opinion, when I want to put more pressure and I and I say this in the positive kind of way,
I actually automate my board to archive my done tasks and only leave the tasks that the team needs to
focus on.
I don't do it manually.
Because you have the option to manually go through the tasks here.
For example, I can select activity one and I can click on archive.
Just like this, right?
But this is a lot of admin work.
So what I'll propose you to do is set up an automation that's gonna do this for you automatically.
So here's how this is done.
We go to automate.
And then we click on Add New Automation.
And then you can just search here.
When?
Status.
And you can just put the keywords here.
So I'm going to put archive.
This is where it is within the status change category.
And I'm going to select when status changes to something archived item.
And I'm going to say when status changes to done.
Archive this item and I will add this to the board.
And this is now on.
I'm gonna close this.
Now, this is only gonna work on the new items that you set to start as done, because the automation
works when something is set to the status.
So if I go on this one and select and change it to work, working on it, and then I change it back
to done.
This is going to disappear because this is going to be archived.
Again working on it, and then I'm going to set it back to done.
So it's important to if you want to set this kind of automations where it takes into account the status
change, it's better to do it early than later, because in this way you would avoid the admin work,
because now if I want to set everything that's done to archive, then I need to still do it manually
because I did the automation after I had done tasks.
This is just a small best practice that I tend to use because this way now in planning I only have two
items and my team can only focus on the two items here.
Some may say, but this means that no one's going to see all the work that we've done.
But this is not true, because if you need to still see the tasks, once you archive them, you can
still find them.
So you just go and go here to the board settings from this menu.
And you're going to go to Archived history.
And you can simply restore everything that you've done here.
And when you go back to the board, you're now going to have your items back.
So in my opinion, you should think about archiving your items so your team can focus on what's really
important in the plan.
And this is a small best practice that I wanted to share with you.
Let's now proceed to the next lesson.

--- Something went wrong? Restore deleted items easily! ---

Welcome back when you are managing a project in a project management tool.
In my opinion, the scariest thing is for you or someone else on the team to delete something by mistake.
So let's say that you've created this great board.
You have everything aligned, you have everyone assigned, and then for some reason, someone within
the team deletes your column on timeline.
A new column simply disappears, and if you want to get it back, you have to start all over again,
right?
Because you only have here 10s in order to undo the damage that's done.
This used to be the case because Monday previously didn't have a way to restore this deleted items back,
so you had to go over and start recreating what you've deleted.
However, they've recently introduced a new feature which you're gonna find under your account.
So if you go to.
Your count from this menu.
Here you will find the recycle Bin and within the recycle bin are all the things that you have deleted.
For example, this is the last column that I've deleted here, which was the timeline from low level
board one.
And what you can do is to simply restore it from here.
And then when I go back to the workspaces and go back to my board, here's my timeline.
And the great news about this feature is that it's going to keep everything deleted over the last 30
days.
So even if something was deleted one week ago, and now you've had a meeting with the management and
you regret deleting it, you can simply go to the recycle bin and restore it in just a minute.
I want to share this with you in case something goes wrong with your projects.
Let's now proceed to the next lesson.

--- High-Level Board for Program Management ---

So far we've talked about how we can manage individual projects, even complex projects, but what we
haven't talked about is how you can manage a complex multi project program within Monday.com.
This is where things get serious.
And for example, if you're leading a program that involves six different projects, you need a way
in order to track all these six projects and report to management on a weekly basis how things are going
for each project.
For this, what I use is a high level board.
In order to create a high level board, let's click on add.
And then we're going to click on new blank board.
And we're gonna name this high level.
Program Management board and we're going to create it.
The idea of the high level board is to give key information of all the different projects that are part
of the program.
The idea here is not to have every single task for each project.
This is not a task board.
This is a high level board that that's more suitable for the program team, the management team and
the company leadership to have a high level understanding of where each project is.
And this is also used to work with management in order to prioritize the different projects.
Let's say our program is to move our business intelligence solutions to a new platform.
For example, this will mean that we need to move thousands of reports that are already generated in
a certain business intelligence tool and move them to a new environment.
This is going to be a program that's going to involve a lot of projects.
So for example, what we can do is let's say that we want to do that over one year.
So our groups here, we can use them in order to track the different quarters Q1 projects.
We're gonna list all the different projects here.
So the first one is going to be analysis of impact.
This can sound like a simple task, but remember that here we're moving thousands of reports and we're
moving users.
So the analysis itself gonna be a separate project that's going to take a long time.
Then the second project here is going to be prepare the backend systems.
Training for admins and data resources because the organization is going to be using a new tool.
So this is going to involve some training here.
So let's say that this is for Q1.
And then.
We're going to have q-2 projects.
Here.
We want to finalize the new solution.
Migrate 20% of the data solutions.
And let's say that this is for Q2.
Then I founded a new group.
And they're going to move the new group to the bottom.
And this is going to be Q3 projects.
Then we're going to have change management for users.
Then we're going to have.
Movement of the other 80%, then you're going to add one more item.
Again.
I'm going to move it to the bottom here.
Okay.
Move this to the third.
So let me move it to the bottom.
Lounge the new system to production.
Sunset the old system.
Because in the beginning you don't want to sunset the previous solution until everything works fine.
And that's about it.
So this program that's gonna take a year to complete in order to move.
The best solution is gonna involve completing nine different projects.
Imagine having all this on one board.
First of all, there will be different teams that are going to be managing the different projects,
the training of for admins and data resources.
This is something for which some consultants will need to be hired and etc..
So this is not going to be the same as people that will be responsible for the preparing of the back
end, so it doesn't make sense to have it everything on one board.
But it's important for management and for for the program leads to understand where each track is.
Now.
For example, in this case, most of the projects are not gonna run in parallel.
But imagine that during the first meeting, management decides that all this needs to be done in two
quarters instead of three.
Then you need to move the change management here.
You need to move all these projects within just two quarters.
Let me delete it.
Let's leave it this way.
And then this means that you're going to have, at any given time, at least 4 to 5 projects running
at the same time.
And these projects will need a different lead.
They will have a different status.
They'll have different issues.
They will have different risks.
So you definitely want to have them on a separate board with all the different tasks for each project.
You don't want to have everything here on the same board.
What you do next is use the person column for project lead.
So for the different projects you're going to have different leads.
For example.
Peter's gonna run this one.
Let me invite someone else.
For example.
Mary.
Example Hotmail.com.
Mary is gonna run this one.
George is gonna run this one.
Mary is gonna run this one.
Peter.
George.
Peter and Mary.
So each project will have a different project lead.
And then you're going to have the status here and you can update the statuses.
You can put a new label.
For example.
I don't want this to be working on it.
I want it to be in progress.
Stuck.
Done.
Not started.
At risk.
And let's say that the this one is in progress.
This is also in progress.
This is at risk.
This is in progress.
Or this talk in progress in progress talk not started and this are not started yet.
Then you can add a timeline.
For example, this is this started back in December until eight.
This one starts on the first until.
22nd.
Ninth to 30th.
Let me assign some timelines for everything.
They're not going to be proper timelines for the quarters.
But just as an example and this can be a deadline, but I'm not going to go and assign them.
Oh.
If this is something that you're going to use to work with management, you can have something like
budget here.
So this is going to be the necessary budget.
For example 30,000 160,000.
80,000 and 180,000.
Obviously you can go to Column Settings and put this in dollars.
So how does this work?
This is going to be our high level board, which you're going to use in order to see at a glance where
the overall program is.
From here you see the project, you see the lead, you see the overall status of the project.
You see the deadline was the actual timeline budget.
You can put here the team and put the the people that are part of this project.
Even if they're ten, you can put them here, put the team.
Then you can add uh, for example, a drop down column.
You can create a label here.
And let's say this is going to be a priority.
High priority.
Medium priority.
Just.
Just as an example.
Low priority.
And then you're going to select high priority here.
Medium priority.
This is just one of the ways to do a priority by the way.
There are obviously other ways.
And you can also do the color formatting that we've used in a previous lesson.
So the idea is to have the key information here that's relevant to the leadership.
But don't go into the detail for the details.
You need a low level board, which is then going to list all the different tasks.
And let's proceed to the next lesson to see how this should be done.

--- Low-Level Board ---

Welcome back.
Let's now look at an example of how we use a low level boards as part of our high level board strategy.
So in the previous lesson we've created a high level board which lists all the different projects that
we need to complete in Q1 and Q2.
So we have nine projects here that our company is going to complete over the next half.
Now, each one of these projects will need its own board within Monday in order to track it properly.
And I've created one example here.
So you see that I have created a new board here which is called low level boards.
Unsettled system.
And this is just a really simple board that I've created, divided into two sections Planning and Execution.
And here all the planning items that we need to do in order to sunset our Otbi system, create a list
of reports, create lists of users potential impact to systems, potential impact to users.
Analysis sessions with users for each group.
Allocate resources for the sunset.
So this is where we plan the sunset.
And then in the execution we sunset 10% of the reports.
We test the impact of sunsetting this 10% and we sunset the remaining reports, cancel all the subscriptions
for the different servers and BI systems that we have, and then we archive all the documentation on
the old system.
So these are all the tasks that we need to do in order to sunset the old system.
And you see that in the high level board we have the sunset, the old system, a simple one line here.
So the idea here is now is that here we just show to management the overall progress with sunsetting
the old system.
And then we use the low level board in order to actually manage the process of sunsetting the system.
And this is the main difference between a low level board and a high level board.
Now in the next lesson we're going to see how we can actually link the two boards together.
So we don't have to copy and paste the information from the low level board to the high level board.
This is where we actually start getting to the more advanced usage of Monte, and making sure that we
use Monte to its full potential.
So let's proceed to the next lesson and see how we can do that.

--- Connect the High-Level and Low-Level boards ---

Welcome back.
In this lesson, we're going to see how we can link a high level board to a low level board.
The first thing that we will need to do is go to the high level board.
And then we're going to click on add column and we're gonna select Connect Boards.
And from here we're going to again click on select a board.
And we're going to select the low level board that we've created for the sunset system.
And we're going to link the board.
And from here we can straight away add a mirror column and we're going to select status.
And we're going to click on done.
So what we want to do is display the status from the low level board into this column here.
Here you can select the items that you want to display.
Let's say for example I want to select the tasks from the planning.
I don't want to display everything.
I just want to display the task from the planning.
And you're going to see that straight away.
The different statuses from the low board are displayed here.
Let me go back to low level board.
The connection here was automatic, so I straight away can see that it's connected to the high level
board sunset, the old system.
And here we have one, two, three, four, five, six different items in the planning group where four
are in progress, one is done and one is stuck.
And if I now go back to the high level board, you'll be able to see that I get the same statuses here,
which is great, which means that if I'm having a review with management and they ask me how is this
going, we can simply quickly go and see that we have six items and four are in progress, one is done
and one is stuck.
And you can add more mirror columns here.
For example, I can click on more columns.
From here I can search for mirror.
Added to the board and then.
Again, I'll select the low level board and I can select anything else.
For example, if I select person.
Which is the owner?
Pretty much.
I can do that.
And then if I go to the lower level board.
You see that only have one person there because I didn't assign all the different tasks, but let me
assign them.
So, Mary.
And that's it.
Let me go back to the high level board.
And if I scroll to the right, you'll see that this is now going to display me, the different owners.
And I can change the status here to gold status because we once have the status here.
And this is for example in progress.
But the detailed status is the different statuses for all the activities.
And here you can have the owners project managers for example.
It's going to depend on what kind of columns you have in the low level boards.
For example, if you had budget here and let me add budget by clicking on numbers.
Yes, twice.
So let me delete one of them.
So this is our budget.
And let's say that here have 5000.
Then I have 3000.
And I'm just going to put some random numbers here.
So the total is 350.
And I will just change this to dollars.
So the budget for the planning is $350,000.
So we'll come back here and I'll add a new column which is going to be a mirror column.
When added to the board.
And then I'm gonna link this.
To the low level boards, and I'm going to link it to the budget and I want to have the some.
Okay.
And I can see that straight away.
Okay, let me change this to budget.
Straight away I can see that the budget is $350,000, which means that I no longer need to track the
budget here manually so I can delete this column.
And my budget is going to be tracked from the low level boards, so I don't have to keep maintaining
it in two places.
And let me put it here a bit more to the left.
And I'm going to put the detailed status here.
I don't need this for now with the project manager, so I'm going to delete it now.
This approach works if the low level board includes details about the specifics of all the different
projects within the high level board.
So for example, if the analysis of impact includes the.
Planning items or few planning items from the low level board.
Then if you have, for example, the sunset, include a different part, for example the execution part,
then this is gonna work.
Let's go.
Let me go to the low level boards.
Then if I assign something to the budget here, for example, some numbers.
Then this is going to be updated on my high level board as well, which means that this approach will
work if, for example, you have a really big program, but you track the program here on the high level
board, a separate main items, and within the low level board, each of these main items is a different
group for you.
This is not going to work.
If you have the nine projects here as nine separate boards, because you can only do the linking to
one board at a time.
In order to display all the information in one column.
Otherwise, you end up with having to have a budget column for each one of the different boards here.
If you want to use this approach, then what you will have to do is have the high level board with the
different main projects here or main areas of the project here, for example analysis of impact.
And then on the low level board, you're going to have the whole group here as analysis.
Of impact.
Then the second one here is prepared the back end systems.
So then on the low level board your second group is going to be prepare the back end systems.
Then you're going to add a new group.
And this new group is going to be the training for admins and data resources.
And you're going to move it down here.
And then what you're going to have is the different tasks here.
For example, train users, train data resources and etc. and within the high level board for training
for admins and data resources.
Is still linked to the low level board.
You're just gonna link the two new items here that you have.
And then once you put a budget.
Here.
This is going to be displayed in the high level board.
So this is how you use the connect board and mirror columns within Monday.
Keep in mind that the limitation here is that you need to have 1 to 1 relationship here.
In order for this to properly work.
There are some workarounds that you can use in order to have all the projects as a separate board here,
and then have one place where you put the status of each project as an overview page.
And this is what we're going to review next.
How to achieve that, if that's what you want to do.
Let's now proceed to the next lesson.

--- Overview Dashboard for multiple projects ---

Welcome back.
In the last lesson we talked about high level boards, a low level board, how we connect them, what
this is good to be used for and what are the limitations.
One of the limitations was that it's not efficient to have multiple low level boards and then try to
connect them to a high level board, because it's simply not possible to do it in a good enough way.
So for this, I'm going to show you how we can use a dashboard in order to display all the information
from the different projects that you're running on separate low level reports.
So I'm going to click on add and I'm gonna click on New Blank Dashboard.
I'm going to name this program overview or even management program overview.
Then from the next section, you can select what boards you want to display information out from.
Let me, for example, decide to choose a few.
So for example, our first board, low level board and projects.
And I'm going to click on done.
From here, you can select straight away a widget that I want to add, and the one that I really want
to add is the status overview.
So I'm going to click on this one.
And I'm going to say that.
I want to use the status, but I only want to use it from.
The first dashboard here, which is projects, because I want to display the status of the activities
from this board first.
And I'm going to click on done.
And here it is.
And in order to not confuse you let me rename this to.
Low level bought one.
Then I'm gonna rename this to Low Level Board two, and I'll find the other one, this one.
And I'm gonna name this.
Low level board three, because the idea here is to show you how you can use a dashboard in order to
show the statuses of a lot of different low level dashboards, of a lot of different low level boards
that are displaying information about different projects.
And let me click on edit here.
So this is low level port one.
And if you're wondering if that's correct, you can just go to settings.
And you see that I'm only picking the data from low level port one, which is this one here.
And my battery chart here is created from the statuses on this port only.
Okay.
Done.
Then what I'll do is I'll add another widget.
So this is going to be again a battery.
And here I'm not going to pick it from low level board 1 or 3, I just only going to pick it from low
level board two.
I'm going to click on done.
Just like this.
Like that.
So this is low level board two.
And then I'm gonna add one more, which is gonna be.
The low level board three the status of the low level board three and I'm going to name this low level
board three.
Which means pretty much project one, project two, and project three.
Then I can, for example, I can add the numbers, the budget from each project.
So okay, on this one I don't.
Okay, I have the budget here named as a cost but doesn't matter.
So let me pick the cost.
So this is the cost here.
And.
This is.
Project one budget and you can do the same for the next two.
So I'm going to quickly do it like this.
Project two budget and then the final one.
Project three.
Budget and that's it.
So you have also the budget.
Now what I usually do is add a widget.
That code, let me find it.
Summary.
Overview.
This is the one overview summary of all the projects.
This is a great one and I usually keep it at the top.
This is gonna show the progress of each of the projects based on how many tasks have been done.
And you can keep this.
At the top.
And move the things around so they can fit properly.
So it's gonna look something like this.
So the top you get an overview progress of all projects.
And then here you can quickly see the progress of each of the different projects.
And obviously you have you can have ten projects here.
Then the next one is going to be in a bit more detail.
What was the status of all the different tasks then here I have the budget and you have a lot of other
options here.
You can put a timeline, you can put charts, especially if you're tracking the effort.
For example, you can put charts with the different effort that's going to take on the different projects.
Here you have time tracking, calendar options, a timeline option.
You can even do a Gantt chart here.
You can do a lot of interesting designs for your dashboards.
I would advise you to play around with it.
It's really intuitive and there are a lot of options, so it really depends on your needs, what you
want to achieve.
It's one thing if you're creating a dashboard for management, it's completely another thing.
If you, uh, creating a dashboard that's gonna be used on a daily basis within the team that's actually
delivering the project.
So it really depends on what you're trying to achieve here.
So this is how you should approach showing the progress of multiple projects to management.
Instead of using the high level board, which is probably not going to be the best place if you're trying
to have a separate low level board for each project.
Let's now proceed to the next lesson.

--- Manage project budgets using Monday.com ---

Welcome back.
Another useful use case of Monday.com is to use it to manage the project budgets within Monday.
You have all your tasks listed within the low level board, so this makes it a really practical place
to record the budget and the actual cost.
So let's take for example this low level board two, which is our project two within the program that
we've created, we have all our tasks here and we already have a column on budget.
Now, I know budgets are sometimes a sensitive topic that you may not want to display here because your
team can see it.
But Monday has thought about this problem and we have a solution for it.
If you go to the budget column and click here on the settings, you will see this column permissions.
And you see that even at the moment I have made some restrictions.
So let me take it out.
So at the moment there's no restrictions on this column and each column.
Can have its own restrictions here.
So here is this budget.
And then there are no restrictions at the moment.
And you can do two things.
You can restrict who can edit the column.
Or you can even restrict who can view the column.
So if I click on restrict column view.
And if I enter a name.
So at the moment within my team I have George, Peter and Mary.
If I put Peter here, so we at the moment we have Peter and George.
And if I close this.
You see that now?
I have this permission settings.
If I click on it, I can see that the only two people that can view this column are George and Peter,
and you can even see that some restrictions applied by this little icon that's going to appear here,
which means that if, for example, Mary, who is the other person who is going to use this project
board, opens this project board, she will not at all see the budget column.
So she will see the item name, person, status and date and she will not have the budget column at
all be displayed on her screen.
So this is how you can restrict who can view the budget.
So once we have the budget, we want to have another column which is number because we want to track
the actual cost, what it actually costs.
So we can have.
Actual cost.
And here we can say this cost 5000.
This actually costed 4000.
5000, then this was 7000.
This was actually just 15,000 and this was 300,000, for example.
And then let me do a bit more below.
I'm just gonna fill them all in so we can have a bit more data here.
Okay.
And this is gonna be 15,000.
And I think that's enough for now.
And I can also restrict this column here.
So I'm going to click here.
I'm going to restrict who can view this.
And I'm going to say it should be George and Peter.
And now we have our budget and we have our cost.
And we can compare whether we are over budget or not.
Let me make this in dollars, column settings and dollars.
Then, in order to make it a bit easier to see whether we have a problem for a certain item in terms
of budget, what I'm going to do, I'm going to create a formula that's going to tell me that.
So I'm going to choose the formula column.
And from here you're going to select the if statement here.
And I'm going to say if actual cost is over the budget.
Then.
Over budget.
Otherwise.
It's going to be okay.
And they're going to set this.
And I can name this, for example.
Within budget and you can see that straight away.
I see the lines that are over budget.
So most lines here are okay, but I have a few that are over budget.
If something is still blank in terms of actual cost, it's going to be okay for now because you haven't
entered a cost that's above the budget.
I can even if I want to restrict this view.
To just Peter and myself.
So now I can easily see what's overbudget.
I can do another formula, which is gonna let me know how much I am overbudget or how much I've got
left.
So I'm gonna click on formula again.
And this one's going to be.
Actual cost minus the budget.
So this is.
Left over budget.
And another thing that you can do in order to really highlight that something is over budget, is to
use the conditional coloring that we've used.
So you're going to say if the column.
Within budget.
Is.
Over budget, then you're gonna color it.
For example, I'm gonna color it in in this color.
So straight away when you come to the board, you'll see what's over budget here.
Another useful thing that you can do for your budget is to.
Create a view that's gonna be a chart view.
And here you can base this.
On the actual cost and let me change it, for example, to a donut chart.
And this is going to be the actual cost.
And we're going to see.
The percentage here.
Then you're going to change the label to the name.
And this way you can easily see what are your tops items where you spend the most in terms of percentage.
You can switch this to value easily, so it's just an easier way to see the information.
If you're in a meeting and reviewing this with someone, and you can obviously switch this to only the
top items.
For example, just to see the top items here that are making what percentage, for example, the top
items are making 95% of the costs.
And these are the and these are the top five items.
Allocate resources for the sunset, sunset remaining 90% of reports, test the impact and etc..
So this is just a tip that you can use the charts view in order to display this information during a
meeting.
Another useful thing that you can do is to set an automation.
And the automation is going to be.
Let me click on Add New Automation.
So when you come here, go to notifications.
And within notifications you can scroll down and you're going to find this one.
When a number is greater than a value, notify someone and I'm going to add it to the port.
And I'm going to say when the actual cost is greater.
Then, for example, 50,000.
Hi, George.
This item crossed the.
50 K mark.
Let's review it together.
Okay.
In a lot of projects you have these limits for certain amounts.
If the cost of a specific item goes above a certain amount, then this needs to go to an approval process
or it needs to be reviewed in more detail.
And you can set this from here.
So every time the actual cost of this item goes above 50 K, we notify George and we go over the cost
with George, who is, for example, our financial director.
Okay, I'm going to add it to the board.
And here it is.
Let me switch back to the main table.
These are some of the main ways in which you can use Monday.com in order to manage budgets for your
projects.
Let's now proceed to the next lesson.

--- Agile Project Management in Monday.com ---

Welcome back.
You've probably heard about agile project management sprints.
Maybe you actually experienced in leading projects based on sprints, and you only need guidance on
how to use them within Monday.
In this lecture, I'm going to show you how I approach leading projects within Monday based on sprints
and what are the key best practices to keep in mind.
Let's start by going to add.
Now, obviously, you have the option to start from scratch and build everything from zero.
But what I usually tend to do is use a template, because Monday has built some great templates that
we can utilize, and the one that we're going to look at today is called Sprint Planning Board.
This one.
And I'm just gonna straight away click on use.
And I'm just going to leave it as a sprint planning board at the moment.
Let's create the board.
And here it is.
We have the structure already in place here.
Usually agile projects have got faster time to market than the traditional project management, and
a key to this is that the planning the project's a bit differently.
In agile project management, you have a release.
Let's say for example, we are creating a new app and this app is going to have 20 features.
And every single one of these 20 features are going to bring some value to our customers.
Now, what an agile project management approach does is to break down all the 20 features into different
what's called in agile project management sprints, and each sprint is released and can be used by the
customer or the stakeholders to share some feedback every 1 to 3 weeks.
A usual sprint is from 1 to 3 weeks.
Usually I've seen four as well, so you create a sprint for one of the features.
You develop the feature you release it, and then you can continue with the second sprint.
Unlike traditional project management where the customer only gonna have the value once the whole app
is developed and released here, they can start getting some value from the application straight away,
because in two months from now, you're gonna release four out of the 20 features, for example, and
they can already use 20% of the application and its value.
And not only that, but they also gonna provide feedback on this 20% of the application so you can improve
it further, which decreases the time to market of any application.
And the customer satisfaction is actually increased usually.
So at the moment you're going to see that this template has got two sprints.
And some further knowledge that I want to share is that each sprint is defined by a user story.
For example, as a manager of a team, I need to be able to see what my team has delivered over the
last week.
So the app should show the manager how many tickets, for example, the team has closed last week.
So this is a user story.
And this is for example the first sprint.
And for this you're going to need an interface which is going to show the manager this information.
I'm not going to go into more details about agile project management.
That's going to take probably at least one hour to properly describe.
But the main thing that you need to remember is that we work into sprints.
These sprints are defined by the team.
The actual team that's going to develop the features is involved in the planning, so they can advise
on how much work can be delivered every two weeks, for example.
And let's see how this works.
So we have sprint one and let's say that.
Let's change this.
So this springboard for.
Website redesign, for example, which was um, project that we've discussed earlier and then sprint
one.
You can just leave it as print one, but I usually put a title.
So implement new web website feedback form for example.
Redesign.
I'm going to keep it simple here.
Redesign the front end.
Connect to the back end systems such as the email and for example, text.
So what we're saying that is the first print from the website redesign is going to be to change the
website feedback form, and then you assign the team members.
And let's say that we're working on the first one.
And this one, this one we were waiting on some review.
The priority is high, high and medium.
For example on the testing estimation for deceased for example five days, three days and two days.
An epic is a larger piece of work.
For example, website front end redesign is gonna be the epic, and then the redesign of the website
feedback form is part of this epic.
So this can be our redesign of website.
Same here and same here.
And this takes this is going to take ten days, which is two weeks.
I'll say that in most cases a sprint is going to be two weeks.
This is the most often timeline I have seen.
Then the second sprint is going to be for example, implement a new landing page.
Then here we're going to have for example design.
The landing page.
Create the content.
Then we're going to have implement the landing page.
And test the landing page.
We're probably going to have some integration here actually as well, but let's keep it at that.
And usually because you're working on sprints, all this is going to be pending.
You can have another status for example not started.
Then you keep them at notstarted.
Or you can do the batch actions that I showed you earlier where you select everything.
That you want.
And then at one go you change the status.
You can in some cases have a sprint to sprint run in parallel.
It really depends on the team that you have.
How big is the team, whether it also makes sense.
So for example, implementing the new website feedback form and implementing a new landing page can
work, right?
Because the second does not depend on the first sprint.
So if you have a big enough team that can take two sprints at the same time, you can do that.
However, in most cases, companies in this case are gonna put the sprint two as part of sprint one,
so you still deliver them in two weeks, and then you have a more generic naming here, for example,
website feedback form and landing page.
And you just define exactly what.
So you still doing it in one sprint instead of two.
But if you have a small team, for example, three people that are working on this and they can only
deliver these three items, you just keep it at sprint one, then you start sprint two.
Once you've deployed sprint one, this can already go can go to production on your company website.
People can start testing it and they can actually start using it.
Same with the sprint two.
As soon as you deploy it, that's gonna hit production on your website.
So this is hopefully going to convert better in terms of visitors to customers.
And you're gonna add value to the company straight away.
And compare this with having to wait six months for absolutely everything on the website to be have
to be redesigned, and only then pushing the whole website to production.
This means that you invested a lot of money and time in developing the whole thing, and you only get
gonna get the benefits after six months on the second sprint.
You also gonna have it on the redesign of website like that.
I just did the bucket action.
Then you do the estimation, the priority, and then if you need more, you just click on new group.
And this is going to be your sprint three, for example.
Switch the servers at the back end, just as an example.
And then as I showed you, you can pull it down and this is going to be your sprint free.
Example switch servers.
Now, because the timelines when you're working in sprints is just usually two weeks.
It's really important to be really quick to solve problems.
And this is why usually when you use the agile principles and you're working on sprints, you're going
to have a daily agile meetings.
And this is usually a stand up meeting where everyone in the team is going to share what's their progress
with their task on this sprint, whether they're facing any challenges.
And usually this is the role of the Scrum master to organize these meetings or the product release manager,
depending on how the team is structured.
So usually the scrum master is going to say these meetings and they're usually around 15 minutes to
30 max.
Usually it should be around 15 minutes.
Within these 15 minutes, the team needs to go through all the items on the sprint and say whether they
are done, whether they're not done, and if there is something stopping them and putting the task at
risk, which means can result in delaying the whole sprint where you only have two weeks.
And this is why it's really important to understand about any problems straight away.
And this is usually how I use sprint planning in Monday.com.
I usually use this template and I amend it based on my needs.
And obviously at the bottom you have the backlog, which is going to keep the items that you're not
doing within the current sprints planning.
Some people can even describe the backlog as a wish list and not a to do list.
So things that we need to do at some point, but they're not part of the current must do items within
the sprint.
Okay, so this is how you use Monday in order to manage your agile projects.
Let's now proceed to the next lesson.

--- Project Approval Board ---

Welcome back.
In this lesson I'm going to show you how to create a project approval board.
I find this board to be really useful, and most organizations can definitely benefit from having it
because as we know, we get more and more requests for new projects all the time, and our leadership
usually in the company needs to approve them.
And by creating a project approval board for the company's management, it's really easy to prioritize
the focus.
And this benefits all team members.
So I'll start from scratch here and I'll go to add.
And then I'm going to click on New Board.
And I'm gonna name this project approval or management project approval, something like this, and
I'll create it.
And then I'll create a few new groups here.
The first one is going to be new project requests.
Then I'm going to have under review.
I'm going to create a new group which is going to be approved.
I'm going to have one more.
It's going to be rejected.
And if you want, you can have two more groups.
For example, you can have cancelled.
And even completed.
And I'm going to sort them out properly.
So first we're going to have the new requests.
Then we're going to have the ones that are under review.
Then we're going to have.
What's currently approved.
What was rejected?
And then you can have the cancelled and completed at the bottom.
So what do you want to do here?
First, the first item is going to be the project name here.
So for example let's say that this is this is going to be the name of the project.
So we're just going to name them project one.
Project two and.
Project three.
Then the second thing that I have here is the requester.
It can be someone from the management or it can be a customer depending on what type of business you're
running.
Then what you can have is for example, actually we can use this one so we can have the request date
when the request came in from the requester.
And I'm going to move this here.
I'm going to create one more column, which is going to be text, and this is going to be.
Exec summary.
Then I'm going to have one more, which is going to be text, which is going to be.
Business justification, then we're going to need.
Who's going to be the PM?
Project manager.
Then we're going to have budget approved.
And we're going to keep the status here and we're going to change this.
Labels.
To the following.
We will have new project request.
Then we're going to have here approved.
Rejected on the review.
Let's apply this one for now.
We're not gonna do the completed and canceled for now.
And in the first section your status is going to be new project, by the way.
You can also change the color here to to match the color.
So that's what I prefer to do.
Then you're going to have the under review here.
Colors are kind of similar so maybe I'll change them.
So let me leave the under review to purple.
Just like that.
Then the approved ones.
Let's say that.
Project.
London.
This is going to be the name, and this is going to be the approved one that we're going to have.
Let me delete this date.
I don't need it for now.
And one more here.
Project pass with a rejected.
And I'm going to have the rejected here.
Same color.
Some people prefer not to have the completed and cancelled items here, so it's really up to you.
So I'm going to collapse it for now.
Just like this.
This is what I prefer to do, to still have them, but have them collapsed because I want really to
focus on new project requests.
The ones that are under review, the approved ones and the rejected.
And let me change the color here to.
So what's the logic?
The logic is that that the person that requests a project, I'm going to fill the exact summary business
justification.
And then obviously the project manager and the budget approved will not be done for the new project
requests.
They this is going to be done when this goes to under review to for example, this project one goes
to under review.
Then I need to change the color to under review.
And then here when it's under review with management is decided that for example George is going to
lead this.
The budget that they allocate to the team is $100.
And this provides a really easy view of what management needs to review.
Because when the new project requests come in, they go through initial screening and only then they're
moved to under review, where the management reviews the projects and either decides to, for example,
project one to approve it.
Or rejected.
For example, if they want to reject this one, this is just rejected.
You can do some automations here.
In order to make this even better, I'm going to add a new automation.
And this is going to do with status changes.
And I will do this when a status when a status changes to approved move this to approved.
I'm gonna add one more.
Again with status changes when the status changes to.
Rejected.
Move to.
Rejected.
And they're going to add this automation as well.
And let me close this.
Now the automations are on.
And let's say that we move a few of these projects also on the review.
These are now on the review.
And let's say that I decide that I'm going to approve this project.
This is now going to be moved to the proofed group if I decide to reject this project.
It's going to be moved to the rejected bucket.
Another thing that you can do is use the forms in order to properly gather the information that you
need.
So I'm going to create a new form here.
I'm going to name this new.
Project request form.
I'm gonna go to the forum.
So this is going to be the name of the project.
They need to fill up the request date.
And you can add description here.
Please enter the name of the project.
Lost.
And I'm going to name this new project request form.
Please enter the current date.
So this is going to be required for this is going to be required.
Then we're going to have status.
I'm going to say please select New Project Request Status here.
Please provide executive summary of the request.
Please provide business justification of this request.
And then I don't want them to see this one, which is the budget approved.
And I don't want them to also see this one.
You can add the logo here if you wish.
You can make it more professional.
You can change the color.
I'm just going to go ahead and share the form.
So this is going to be the link.
Let me preview it.
This is the form.
Okay, I can enter a new project.
Project New York, for example.
By default, it's gonna enter for me the current date, so don't even have to change it.
I'm gonna enter new projects request here, then executive summary.
Set up a new shop in New York, for example.
Utilize.
The cash flow to increase the revenue or something like that, and they're going to submit it.
Another one that I can do.
This is the link that I've copied from my form, and as soon as you share it with anyone, they will
be able to enter.
Details here, for example.
Again, I'll do Project London again.
Same date, same one new projects request set up a new shop in London and and you see that business
justification is not required.
Probably should be.
And the executive summary should be required as well.
And I'm going to submit this.
Let me go back to the main table.
You see that straight away.
We have two new projects here which is the Project New York and Project London.
So my advice to you is to go ahead and utilize everything that I've showed you in this lesson.
First of all, set up management project approval board so management can use it.
Or you can use it with your team.
You can you don't have to use it at the highest level.
Let's think about it.
Let's say that you are developing a new application, and you want to understand what type of features
your users want to have in this application.
Perhaps a good idea is going to be to share a form with them so they can request features.
All right.
And then again put justification and summary of the feature.
Then it goes to new for example feature requests instead of project requests.
Then the team reviews the feature request and they either get approved or rejected.
And this way you can optimize the way in which you gather new feature requests.
And that's how you set up an approval board for your projects.
Thank you.
And let's proceed to the next lesson.

--- Uploading Files - Intro ---

Hey.
Welcome back.
As you progress on your journey of using Monday on a daily basis, what you will find is that you need
to do a lot of file management within Monday.com, because if you don't leverage Monday for your file
management, this means that for all the projects, you need to store the files externally, which can
really become a pain when you're trying to collaborate with your team.
And this is why in this section of the course, I'm going to teach you the most professional way of
using Monday for file management.
And let's start with the basics.
There are a few ways in which you can load a file now.
For this lesson.
You can just go to any board within Monday.
I'm using one template here that's called Project Board.
That's coming from the template set that I've previously downloaded.
However you can really use any board.
So what we'll do we'll load a few files.
So by the way I also included the files in the lesson as a resource.
So if you want to download them you can go ahead and do so.
But you can really use any file in order to follow the steps.
So the first step is just open any board.
And once you're ready we're going to get started.
So there are really a few ways to upload a file.
So the first one is going to be simply click on any task here.
For example click here on task one.
What this is going to open is this section on the right for updates.
And from here I have a few options.
I can load the file.
From here I just can click on Write and Update.
And here I'm going to have the option to attach a file.
And you can attach a file from multiple locations from your computer, from a Google Drive, from Dropbox,
from box, and also from OneDrive and SharePoint.
I'm going to choose from computer.
And I've created this folder here.
You have these files by the way, again included in this lesson which is for interior design for living
room.
So I'm just going to select the first one and I'm going to click on open.
This is now going to load the file in Monday for me.
Here it is.
And I can just click on update.
And the file is now going to be loaded.
And it's going to be available here.
And you'll see that I have one conversation under this task.
And the file is here okay.
Another option is going to be to use files.
So from this menu here you can see all the files that are uploaded for this task.
And you can add a new file.
Just like this.
Another option that you have is to include.
A column five column.
So you're going to click on Add to board.
And you're going to select column.
And from here you're going to search for file.
And here it is the files column.
Are you going to add it to the board?
So now I'm going to have a new column here, and I can use it to add files.
So I can just again choose from my computer.
And for example, I can add a third image here.
Okay.
And this is going to be loaded.
And here it is.
I can add multiple files in my files column.
So I'll add one more here.
And this is what it's going to look like.
Okay.
Another way to add files that not many people know about is that when you have a.
Status column like this.
In the top right corner you have this ad.
Tiny button and you can click on it.
And from here you can actually provide an update and attach a file as well.
So I can attach one more file from here.
Just like this.
And one thing to keep in mind is that your files gallery that you find when you open the task here under
this tab here will hold the files from also the file columns.
So you see that we have it from the file columns.
And we have it from the one that we added from the files gallery here and the one from the update section.
However, if I add a file from here like we did, you will notice that this is not going to be available
under your files column.
So if you have a files column and you want all the files to be in the files column, you will need to
add them from here.
So let's now proceed to the next lesson and see how we can use these files in order to collaborate and
communicate.

--- Collaborating with Files ---

Hey.
Welcome back.
Having all the files relevant to a specific task in Monday is a great start.
However, how do we proceed to communicate with our team, for example on changes needed or any updates
that we want to provide to them, such as versioning of the file?
Well, the great news is that with the introduction of file gallery for the tasks.
And let's go to task one here and to the files gallery.
You can actually provide specific feedback on these files to your team members straight away from here.
And this is great if you're working across a big corporation where you have team members in the different
time zones, and it's hard to meet.
And not only that, but it's gonna save you time in meetings that can be really done quickly in five
minutes in Monte.
And let me show you how this is done.
So you can open, for example, the first file here.
And from here you have a few options.
So let's say for example, we want to give specific feedback to the team member that uploaded this image.
So for example you don't want this painting to be here in the image.
What you can do is you're going to click on.
Comment and you can click anywhere on the image here, for example, here and you can say, can we try
to remove the painting and see how it looks?
Okay, so this is the new annotation feature by Monday, which means that this annotation will be saved.
And you see that there is a update icon here.
And when I open this.
I'll see where the annotation is here, and I can open it just like this.
And I can see what has been the request or comment here.
And other team members can like it.
And for example, the owner of the image can reply, sure, let me get this done by Friday for example.
And as simple as that.
You can communicate to the images.
And what's even better is that let's say now the person upgrades the image, right, and removes the
painting.
What they can do is come in here and go to versions and they can upload a new version.
For example, let's say this is the new version.
They'll load it just like this.
This is now going to be loaded.
And you see that we have both versions now, version one and version two.
And if I go out.
You see that there is this V2 here.
So I know that we are at version two of the image.
Okay.
So this is great.
Some other features that you have here is info.
So you can see when the image was uploaded, who uploaded it, the resolution and etc..
We've covered updates in versioning.
You can also add a description here.
Also below you can show the original size.
You can rotate the file.
You can download the file.
You can download all the files as a zip.
You can print it and you can delete it.
So this is how you can fully collaborate on any files that you load using the files gallery here.
And let's now proceed to the next lesson and explore some more really useful features in terms of file
management.

--- How to restrict File persmissions? ---

Hey.
Welcome back.
One thing that's really important to point out is that anyone that has access to your board will be
able to download the files and edit them.
Now, I know in some projects we are dealing with sensitive files that we don't want everyone to be
able to download and edit.
So in this cases, what you will need to do is set up the board permissions in such a way that only
owners of the board and tasks will be able to edit the row associated with them.
So in order to do that, what you will do is go here to board permissions.
You will see that in terms of view permissions, at the moment, users can view all items in this board
where expecting a feature to be rolled out that will allow customers of Monday at the enterprise plan
to be able to set it up so that users can only view items that are created or have been assigned to
them, but for now, this is not available now in terms of editing permissions.
At the moment, you see that everyone can edit everything, and if you want to get more information
on what this means, you can just hover over this information icon.
Now we can switch it to edit content only, which will mean that they wouldn't be able to delete groups
or columns.
Then if you switch it to the edit content only in items assigned to them in owners column.
This means that collaborators will only be able to download files, edit them, and actually they will
be able to do any other row modification only when this task is assigned to them.
However, they can still collaborate on the task by writing updates.
And the most restrictive one, which I never use because this means that the board owner will be the
only person that will be able to do any kinds of updates is write updates only, which means that the
board owners will manage the board and no one else will be able to edit anything.
Now, actually, there have been some cases when this is useful.
For example, for some really high visibility project plans, you perhaps want to have the full control
of what's being updated.
But in our case, we're going to switch this to edit content only assigned in items assigned to them.
We're going to save this.
And this will mean that the files here, for example in task one, will only be able to be downloaded
and edited by the owners of this task and obviously the board owners.
And let's now proceed to the next lesson.

--- The Monday Digital Asset Management Solution ---

Welcome back.
When we talk about file management in Monday.com, I cannot miss the great new solution that Monday
recently introduced, which is the Digital Asset Management.
In order to use it, you're going to click on add and you're going to go to choose from templates.
And here you should start typing digital.
Assets.
Asset Management.
And you find it here on the right.
You can click on preview just to see what it is about.
And then just I will just go ahead and click on Use template.
This is now gonna load it in my workspace.
And here it is.
So what is the digital asset management?
This is a board which can be used in order to manage your files.
And it's especially used useful for creative files such as a company logo, a video and all the different
stuff that you may be using in your business.
So let's understand how this is built so you know how to use it.
First of all, it all works by using the cards view.
So in reality if I go to the main table.
You see that these are actually different groups.
So you have logos, videos, images.
And then within these different groups we have the actual items.
So here we have company logo.
Here we have welcome video and product launch video.
And when I switch to the cards view.
This is how they are displayed.
Now, if you want to filter on a specific group, you can do it from here.
So I'll just select group.
And I can choose, for example, just to see the videos.
Okay.
Then if I want to open one of the videos, I can do it from here.
And this is gonna show me.
The video went from here.
I can do the things that we did previously in terms of updates, different versions and etc..
Let me close it.
So you notice that in the main table we have everything that we need.
So we have the asset name.
We have a column for sub items.
Who's the designer.
What's the status file column for the final version attachment.
Then a link in case this is available somewhere on the internet.
Asset details and usage.
And obviously you can fully amend this to suit your needs.
Now, in my opinion, if you want to store the creative files of a company in a location and you don't
want to pay for other tools, you want to pretty much structure everything in Monday.com and make the
most out of this tool.
Then you can just download the digital asset management and just use that instead of using yet another
tool within your business so you can manage the files here from the main table.
Also, if you go to files here, you see that we have them all just listed.
Or you can use the fancy cars view, which is gonna show your files in a much more presentable way.
And this is gonna be a great view to use if you want to show this to management.
Okay.
Because you see, it doesn't take really long to create this, but then it looks really nice here.
And.
If you followed the beginners course, you know that we've created a, for example, workspace for PMO
department.
What I usually do is search digital assets.
I keep them under the documentation section here.
So I have my high level view.
I have my low level view in terms of projects.
Then I have the documentation and I have the templates that I use.
Everything in one place.
So this is just an idea that you can explore.
If digital asset management is something that you need to implement in your organization.
Let's now proceed to the next lesson.

--- Admin options ---

Welcome back.
In order to make the most out of your Monday.com account, you should know that you can access some
admin options where you can customize different settings.
In order to go to the admin settings, click here on this menu and then click on admin.
From here you can change the account name.
For example, at the moment for this tutorial, I've created the account Monday Teaching and you can
also change the URL.
Now this is not going to be relevant for most people, but for example, if you live in Dubai, you
can change the first day of the week.
Instead of starting the week on Monday, you can set it up to start on Sunday.
If you want, you can decide whether to show or hide weekends on the timeline.
And something that's really important is to know about this export account data.
This is going to export all the boards that you've created.
And it's going to zip it in a file so you can keep it as a backup.
What I usually do is at least once a month I do an export.
And then save a copy of the zip file.
They will send you a link to your email from where you can download the file.
In terms of customization menu here.
You can change the logo so you can customize it to look more like your company's branding here.
The email header.
The main menu logo.
You can change that.
Then under features.
You have a lot of other useful features.
For example, Weather Monday is going to show you whether you're online or offline.
There's some automation on on pre-made statuses.
And some other options that you can either decide to enable or disable, such as display link preview
and Display File Preview.
In terms of the boards, you can set some defaults in order to save time.
This is what I usually do.
So instead of having working on this, I like to have the status in progress.
I also like to have things such as at risk and you just decide which color to pick.
And if you want to have you can have something like cancelled and etc..
And you just type all the different statuses that you want to have and you just save it, save the changes.
Then when you go to user profile, you can change the title.
Title.
For example, your email address, phone number, everything that you want to display to the other users
of Monday.
This is to do with the customization.
Then if you go to users.
You see how many users there are within this account at the moment?
Who are the admins you'll be able to see?
From here you can assign board ownership.
So you can change it from the current owner to Peter.
For example, if someone leaves your company, for example, then when you go to security, you have
some options in terms of what should be the security process in logging into Monday.
At the moment I have email and password.
You can change the setting on how secure the password should be.
You can make it very strict password security, which is going to mean that they need to select a really
strong password with different characters.
You have some some other options here, but they're only available in the enterprise version, which
I don't expect a lot of people to have.
But if you have it, then you're going to have some options, such as single sign on where from your
company's main internal page.
You're going to be able to log into Monday without needing to input any passwords or anything like that.
And you can enable two factor security, which means that you will need to verify the login using an
app or a message that you're going to receive on your mobile phone.
That's with the login audit is only available in the enterprise version again.
So we're going to skip this audit.
Compliance and advanced are only available in the enterprise version.
You can learn more about them from your company's administrator if your company is on the enterprise
version, because there can be some specifics depending on the company.
API is for developers, so we're going to skip this one for now.
And in terms of billing, this is going to show you a current plan how many users you have and when's
the next billing date.
Usage stats.
If we go to it, we will see the activity over the last 60 days, for example, that I've made 11 board
updates zero people posted.
How many updates did we get on the boards?
What's the storage usage?
So for example, at the moment I've used 60MB from the five gigabytes within this plan, the people
that I have on the account and the boards created in terms of storage.
There's another menu here.
Where you can just get some extra information on what what you've used the storage for.
And then some advanced, which is going to show you some more stats such as trending boards, top creators.
Over the last one month, and the top communicator of the last one month.
When you go to tidy up.
From here you can archive some of your boards.
This is especially important when you start using Monday.
And let's say that you're using it for a lot of different projects.
Imagine keep on using it for three years.
You're going to have a lot of boards that are for really old projects that have been completed, for
example, two years ago, and maybe there was even four projects.
Bottom line is you're gonna get some old projects that are just gonna take a lot of your space here,
and it's gonna make it harder to find other boards.
So you can just come here and decide to archive some of these items from here, and then you have apps
with not gonna have anything at the moment within apps, because we haven't installed anything.
But if you install an app, it's gonna appear here.
And the permissions is again for the enterprise account.
So these are some of the admin options that you have I believe it's good to know about them in case
you need to customize some of these options.
So yes keep them in mind if you need any of this functionality.
Let's now proceed to the next lesson.

--- Monday Apps Marketplace ---

Welcome back.
When we went through the admin portal here, you probably saw that we have a apps marketplace that we
haven't reviewed so far.
If you go to this menu here and you have two options to get to the apps marketplace, you can do it
from here.
Or I usually click on this menu here and I click on Apps Marketplace.
Monday's idea is that they want to give you full flexibility on how you manage your projects, and your
teams and operations within your business.
They want Monday.com to be the place where you can do everything, so you don't have to go and log into
other websites and apps and do all this unnecessary going back and forth within the apps marketplace,
you're going to find a lot of useful tools from all sizes, shapes, and forms.
For example, you will find apps such as Typeform.
Which you can use in order to improve the way in which you receive data from your customers or stakeholders.
You also have applications such as mirror, which will increase the creativity within your team.
And that's a great tool actually, that we've been using.
And they're so much more applications here that you can install.
And it's so easy to find an application.
Let's say, for example, that I'm usually using Todoist, and I want to see whether they have to do
it here.
I can just search for it.
And I can see that it's here.
So let me click on something on Import and export.
For example.
Some of them will have a trail that you can use to see if they're going to be helpful for you.
So for example, if you want to go towards the business intelligence and building reports that look
fantastic, you may have a look at something like this one.
Or you just go and search for report.
And you see what are the type of tools that the marketplace at the moment has in order to improve your
reporting.
For example, the agile reports.
You see that I have it installed.
That's a great feature actually.
Using the Agile Reports app, you can do charts such as a burndown chart, burn up chart, velocity
chart and etc. this is a really flexible tool.
It takes some time to get used to some of these apps.
So my advice to you is to at first go ahead and look for something that you already are familiar with.
Let's say, for example, that you're using outlook within your business or Gmail or some other email.
Go ahead, integrate it and start using it.
Then start exploring some other tools.
Ask your team whether they have used a tool that they think is going to be useful within Monday.com,
and try to find it here.
And remember that Monday adds new apps all the time to this catalog.
So even if it's not here now, it might be here one month from now.
So it's a good idea to once in a few months check what's available in there in case something grabs
your attention and you want to install it.
I'm sure you're going to find something useful within the apps marketplace, so go ahead and explore
it and see if there's something useful for you.
Thank you.
And let's now proceed to the next lesson.

--- monday.labs ---

Hey.
Welcome back.
So if you are like me and like to be on top of things.
So for example myself, if I'm using a software, for example, to manage my projects, I want to know
all about the new features that are coming in and how I can use them.
And I was so happy when Monday introduced a feature called Monday Labs.
And you're going to find Monday Labs under your account here.
There's a Monday Labs link.
You can click on it.
So what is Mondal Labs?
Mondal labs is the place where you can see all the better features that are currently being tested by
Monday, which means that they've been developed already.
They're not really released yet to production, but there is a better available for testing and you
wouldn't see this beta features as you browse through Monday.
You need to come in here and say okay, widget IDs in dashboards looks interesting.
I'm going to find this helpful for my daily work.
Let me activate it.
So you just find something here that you believe can be beneficial to you.
And you can test the beta feature.
Now obviously keep in mind that this is still in beta.
So you can expect some bugs.
And for some of these features to not work to 100% yet.
However, for my experience using it, almost every single feature that I've added worked perfectly
fine.
And even if you're not interested in using beta features, Munday Labs is a great place to actually
be on top of what you can expect to come as new features in the next few months.
Sometimes people wondering whether something that they will find useful will be available soon.
Well, the features that will be available the soonest will be here under Monday Labs and you can check
what they are.
So you can read through the list here and see if there's something that's going to be useful for you.
For example, this one sounds interesting.
Highlight new board changes, and the description is that it's going to highlight items and cells that
changed while you were away, which means that you are on a board, right?
You go for lunch and in the meantime something changed on the board.
Someone else came in and changed something.
These items that were changed will be highlighted for you.
And in order to activate this feature, you just can click on activate.
And that's it.
This is already activated for you.
Now keep in mind that when you activate it, this is not going to activate it for your team members
that are using the same multi account.
So every person will need to activate what they believe will be useful for them from here.
Let's try one.
So you see that here we have height done animations and let's see what this means.
So if I go to any board and you don't have to do it by going to test it for you here.
So I'm just going to open one board here.
Let's just open this template and see how when I change a status to done there is this animation here.
It's a really small thing, but even for this small feature, there is a monthly lapse.
Fix if you don't want this to happen.
So here it is.
Hide done animation.
So if for some reason you don't like this, you can activate this just like this.
So now it's active.
And now Monday is going to refresh.
Every time you activate a new feature, this is going to happen.
Okay.
And now I'm going to go and I'm going to switch another one to done.
For example this one switch to done.
And you see that there's no animation this time happening here.
And this is how Monday labs work.
I believe you can find some really interesting feature here.
So have a look and see if there's something that's going to be useful for you.
Let's now proceed to the next lesson.

--- Working status ---

Hey welcome back!
Another useful feature of Monday, when you work on more complex projects where you have a lot of different
team members working on the project is the working status.
If you have been using any communication tools, such as, for example, Microsoft Teams, you will
be pretty familiar with the working status idea.
Really, the idea here is that you can show to your coworkers the current state that you're in.
For example, you see that Mondays got a lot of options here.
You can choose working from home, out sick on break, out of office, working outside, and family
time.
Okay, so for example, if I choose on break, you notice that I have this icon appear here under my
name.
And by the way, if I go into a specific workspace, for example, here I am under one specific workspace.
And if I go to members, although I'm going to be the only member here at the moment, you will see
that this icon is going to appear here.
So as you can imagine, when you're working on a workspace with a lot of different members, you'll
be able to see their statuses from here.
So if I change this to something else, such as, for example, out of office, this is going to appear
here.
Now, another thing that you can do is use this on and off toggle for Do Not Disturb.
So let's say for example I'm just about to finish my day.
So let's say I'm finishing at 5:00.
It's 545.
I really don't want anyone to bother me in the last five minutes so I can finish my job.
What I can do is I can just click on, on and I'm going to be at Do Not Disturb.
And also you will notice that I don't get the notifications anymore.
So let me switch back to off.
You see that I have a notification for here within my inbox that I received something, but as soon
as I switch this to on, this is going to disappear.
Okay.
Another useful feature that you can use here is to plan ahead.
And the way you can do that is you're going to go to your account.
You're going to go to my profile.
And then you're going to select working status from the options here.
And within working status we have the in-office working from home outtake on break and etc..
And you'll see that for all of those we have an option except the in the office we have an option to
choose date.
So let's say that I know I'm going to be out of office in the summer of 2022.
I can just select, for example, that I'm going to be off from the fifth.
Or from the fourth to the.
8th of July, and this status will be displayed for my co-workers during this time period here.
Also, if I don't want to be spammed with mobile notifications and email notifications while I'm not
in the office from Monday.com, I can disable those from here.
Now this is all great, but some teams don't really like the working status concept, so they prefer
to not have it at all.
And you can do that.
If you have admin rights to Monday, you can go to the admin menu here.
From admin, you can go to customization.
From here you can go to features.
And from here you can decide that you want to switch this off, which is the online activity indicator.
So from here you can decide whether you want to show or hide the working status of all the users on
your account.
And then if you decide to hide the status, you just need to save the changes.
And even if I didn't come in here and select something, this is not going to be displayed for my coworkers.
So you have to make the decision whether you find the working status helpful for your organization,
and whether you want to introduce it as part of your collaboration within the team.
So this is how to use the working status.
And some of the specifics that not many people know about.
Let's now proceed to the next lesson.

--- Zoom ---

Hey, welcome back.
In this lesson, we're going to be talking about how we can integrate zoom with your Monday account.
Now this is a question that I get asked really often when I work with my team, whether we can use some
of these communication tools that we use and really integrate them with our project management toolset.
And in this lesson, let's see how this is going to be done.
So for this lesson you can just open any board.
I'm again going to use the template here project board.
Now if you want to get the same template obviously you can go to the templates portfolio management.
And this is the one project portfolio management.
And this is one of the three templates that comes with this template set.
So this is what they're going to be using.
And once you're here on the board you're going to click on integrate.
Keep in mind that sometimes money moves the buttons here at the top.
So instead of here, sometimes it's going to appear here.
They're trying different interface changes, minor interface changes really often.
So it's going to be somewhere here you're going to click on integrate.
And this is going to take you to the Integration Center, where we have all the different applications
that we can integrate with Monday.
From here we're going to search for zoom.
I can see it here straight away, but if you don't see it you can just search for zoom.
This is going to find it.
Let's open it.
And this is going to show you the different types of integrations that are available for you between
Zoom and Monday.
So there are a few different integrations that you can do when creating a meeting on zoom.
Create an item and sync meeting details.
When scheduling a meeting on zoom, create an item.
When a participant joins any meeting before the host notifies someone, and when a participant is waiting
for the host on any meeting, notify someone.
Now let's explore this use case when scheduling a meeting on zoom.
Create an item.
This integration is really useful to keep track of your meetings and get all the relevant information
in one place.
So let's explore how we can do that.
So we're going to click on Add to Board.
And this will now ask me to connect Monday and Zoom.
So I'm going to click on connect.
And from here you will need to log into your zoom account.
So I just logged in using my email account and password.
Then I authorized this here.
And I'll click here on authorize.
And this is now going to make the connection between Zoom and Monday.
And it's going to give me the option when scheduling a meeting on zoom, create an item.
And here you need to map what needs to be created.
So from here you need to map water, the zoom details and where to map them on the columns that you
currently have.
Obviously, this board is not really optimized to hold zoom details, but I'm going to show you how
this is done.
And then you can later create another board or another example for your own usage based on your needs.
So for example under group I will leave this to planning.
Okay.
On name.
I'll link it to meeting name.
On owner.
I'm going to map it to host in zoom status.
I perhaps not going to map duration.
I'm going to map to schedule duration expenses, and I'm going to map and you see what the logic is
here.
Actual date of completion.
Let's map it to schedule start date.
And you can add additional columns if you want.
And then I'll just click on done.
And now added to the board.
Okay.
So this integration is now added.
Now let me close this.
And what I'll do is I'll go to zoom.
And from here, I'll schedule a meeting.
Really just like this.
Schedule a meeting.
I'm going to schedule it for, for example.
4th February.
Starting at.
1130, for example.
And I'm just going to go ahead and schedule this meeting now.
The meeting is going to be scheduled.
And once this is scheduled and you see that this is scheduled here.
You're going to get a new line under planning.
And here it is George smart zoom meeting.
And if I open this it's going to show me that this is an automation about the meeting created.
And I can see that the different columns will be populated based on the zoom meeting.
For example, the actual date of completion is scheduled for the time of my meeting, and I get this
displayed here that a new column has been added which is showing me the zoom meeting.
So from here I can open it.
So you can actually open the zoom meetings directly from your Monday account.
Let me close it.
And you see that when you create an integration in Monday.
This is going to appear here and you know that there's an integration going on.
Let's click here again on integration and add a new integration.
What I will do is I will select zoom again.
And you see that there are some useful integrations here.
For example, when a participant joins any meeting before the host notifies someone.
So if you add this.
And you use the same account.
And here you can choose.
My meeting room, non-instant meetings or a specific meeting and let's say any meeting before the host
notify.
I'm going to put just a reminder that and then I can put participant.
This is the participant name is waiting for you in zoom.
Okay.
And then you can notify, for example, yourself a specific team member.
People from the people column a specific team.
And you have a few options here, you can explore them.
So let's say I'm going to notify myself and I'm going to add this to the board.
Okay.
So what is this going to do?
So now we have a meeting created that's gonna start right.
Let's say the time arrives and the meeting is started and someone joins the meeting before me.
Now, if I'm really busy with managing my boards in Monday and I don't really notice that it's time
for my meeting.
I'm gonna be notified when someone joins zoom, and straight away I'm going to get a notification here.
So these are some of the options that you have in terms of the zoom integration.
You'll notice that in this way you can create, for example, a brand new board just for the meetings.
For example, if I duplicate this board, right.
Meetings and I'm just going to name it meetings.
I can place it somewhere, I can place it under documentations, or I can place it under projects or
high level wherever.
I believe this is going to be a good fit.
And I can actually use this meetings board in order to track my zoom meetings, and I'll be able to
join all meetings from the zoom link here.
Okay.
And I'll be able also to link the zoom fields to a specific field in Monday, and I can fully customize
it so it works for me.
Now.
Every team is going to have different needs in terms of what they want to track and how they communicate
within zoom and etc. so I'm not gonna give a really specific case, but what I want you to take away
from this meeting is that you can do integrations with zoom, and you can fully customize the board
in Monday in order to track the zoom details that you want to track.
It's probably going to take you 10 to 20 minutes to get this right, but then you're also going to have
your zoom account fully integrated with Monday, so you can do even more directly from your Monday account.
So this is how we can use zoom from Monday.
Hopefully in future we're going to get some more features, such as being able to directly create zoom
invites from Monday.
But for now, these are your options and hopefully some of these options will be helpful to you.
Let's now proceed to the next lesson.

--- Gmail ---

Hey, welcome back.
In this lesson, I'm going to teach you how you can integrate Gmail with any board in Monday.com.
And you may be wondering, but what use case would I have to connect a board to my Gmail account?
And the answer is pretty simple.
Imagine that you're working on a very high visibility project, and the status of one of the items is
changed to stuck.
Perhaps you want someone to receive an email straight away that this happened so they can do something
about it.
And there are many more use cases for which you may need a direct connection between Monday and Gmail.
And by the way, a similar integration is also available for other email providers.
So the way we will do that is I will use the same board project board, which is the template board
that I've previously downloaded, and I'm going to go here to integrate.
I'm gonna click on Integration Center.
Or you can click on Add New Integration.
It's pretty much the same thing.
It's going to bring you to the integration center here.
And from here I'll find Gmail.
Here it is again.
If you cannot find it, you just look for it just like this from the search box here.
And this is going to find it for you.
And.
You click on it.
And this is going to show you all the available integrations that you have.
And let's look at what kind of integrations we have here.
So the first one is that every time period, if status is something, send an email to someone.
Then we have the next one, which is when status changes to something, send an email to someone and
this is the one that I use the most often.
And this is the use case that we're going to integrate.
But let's look at some of the rest.
When a column changes, send an email to someone.
When a new item is created, send an email to someone every time period.
Send an email to someone when status changes from something to something, this is a bit more specific.
Send an email to someone.
Then we have when date arrives and status is something, send an email to someone.
This is one that I also use quite often, just to make sure that when a deadline for a specific task
is near, I get an email sent straight away to the owner of the task, for example.
Then the next one is when an email is received.
Create an item in the group.
And the last one is when an email from this email column is received added as an update.
So you see that we have a lot of different use cases here.
So depending on your business needs you will definitely find some of this useful.
Let's go to the when status changes to something, send an email to someone.
So I'll do that.
I'll just click on Add to board.
And then I will need to connect to my Gmail account.
So I'm just gonna.
So I'm just gonna connect to my email account here, just like this.
So once you log into your account, this is what's going to happen.
You're going to authorize the linkage.
And then straight away you're going to have this pop up button which is going to allow you to do the
actual integration.
So my integration is going to be when.
Status column.
Changes to stock.
Send an email.
And here is going to be the email.
So the subject line is going to be important.
We have a stock task in our plan.
Hey, can you please have a look and help us resolve it or something like this?
This is just an example.
Obviously, you can make this much more intuitive and smart by adding the item name here, the username
owner, and etc..
Okay, so for example you can do something like.
Hey.
And then we have.
Item name is.
Status stuck.
Can you please help?
Help us resolve it or something like this.
Right.
This is just an example.
You put a message here that's actually going to make sense for your business.
And then.
You decide who to email, for example, me or you?
Maybe you want to add an email column where you're going to place who's going to be emailed if this
happens at a specific team member.
Perhaps the owner, the board, subscribers, a specific team, or some guest.
In this instance, I'm going to keep it to myself.
So we're going to have now when status changes to stuck, send an email to George Smart and I'm going
to integrate this to my board.
Add to board.
And you see that this is now integrated.
And let's see how this works.
So let me change one of the statuses here to stack.
So for example task four here I'm going to change it to stack.
Okay.
Just like this.
And then when I open my account, you see that I have this email, which is an automation via monday.com.
And it is important we have a stack task in our plan.
Hey, task four is stuck.
Can you please help us resolve it?
So you see how in a matter of minutes, we created an integration that makes sure that every time a
task within our plan is stuck, we email a specific person straight away so things can get resolved
quickly.
And you see that as we explored, you have a lot more options here that can be really useful.
So it really is going to depend on your specific business needs.
But I really believe that integrating Monday with your email provider and there also other email providers
here that you can integrate this with.
So you have outlook, for example, if that's what you use.
You also have teams which is another communication channel.
So you can make sure that you get a lot of notifications straight away to the right people.
And you also have other use cases for which you can use this integrations.
So think about how you can use integration between your email provider and Monday.com.
And I definitely want to advise you to start using such integrations in the future.
And having said that, let's now proceed to the next lesson.

--- Outlook ---

Hey.
Welcome back.
This is a really quick lesson, just to show you that what we achieved in the last lesson with Gmail
is fully achievable also with outlook.
And it doesn't take much more work.
So you just go and go again to integrate.
And from here you're going to go to the Integration Center.
And this time around, let's click on outlook from our options.
So what you will notice here is that we have almost the same kind of integrations available for outlook
as we have for Gmail.
For example, the one that we did in the last lesson was this one.
When status changes to something, send an email to someone.
So we had when status changes to stuck, send an email to someone.
And again we have nine different integrations here.
So if you're using outlook, just keep in mind that you can create some really useful integrations here
similar to Gmail.
So you're just going to click on it at the board and you're going to go through the same process.
However, I want to make this lesson to let you know that there is one specific when it comes to outlook.
So when we did the Gmail integration.
This is absolutely free, right?
You can just add the integration and it's going to work.
However, when it comes to outlook.
Unfortunately in order to have this integration, you must have a Microsoft 360 Business Premium license
in order to use the integration.
Now, if you do not have this license type, you will see an error message when setting up the integration.
So for example, if you're using some kind of a free outlook service, you see an error when you try
to integrate this.
This is really unfortunate, but this is what it is.
So in reality, if you do not have a business premium license on outlook, you wouldn't be able to add
this integration.
And even when you click on Add to board.
Here is gonna let you know somewhere.
Let me see.
Yeah.
So the first one here is please make sure you have an Outlook Exchange online account.
And here's the second point.
Please ensure your Microsoft subscription is business premium license or higher to use this integration.
So keep that in mind if you want to integrate Monday with your outlook or if you get an error when trying
to integrate it.
And let's now proceed to the next lesson.

--- Twilio - automatic SMS and voicecalls (PAID feature) ---

Hey, welcome back.
In this lesson, I'm going to introduce you to my favorite integration, or at least one of my top five
favorite integrations in Monday.
I use it quite often where we run really important projects with big budgets.
However, keep in mind that this is not a free integration, so if you don't want to look at an integration
with an extra cost, this lesson then is not for you.
And I definitely not gonna advise you to use this for every single project out there, but it's useful
for some projects.
So this is why I'll definitely want you to know about it, and you can decide whether you can use it
for some specific projects.
The integration that I'm talking about, and I go to integrate now and I'll go to the Integration Center.
The integration is called Twilio.
You actually see it here in this main view.
Here it is.
Now what is Twilio?
Twilio is a cloud communication platform that allows you to send voice and text messages and perform
other communication functions as well.
Now, when it comes to Twilio and Monday, it allows you to send automatic calls or text messages to
someone.
So here are the different automations that you have available.
For example, when a column changes, call someone and say something.
When a status changes to something, call someone and say something.
And if you scroll down, you see that you can also send a text message.
So for example, let's look at this one.
When a status changes to something, send an SMS to someone.
And when you click on auto board.
So what you will need to do here is first create your Twilio account.
And once you create your Twilio account, you should log into your Twilio account and you will find
your account Sid number.
And if you're wondering where to find it, just click here.
And this is going to show you exactly where you can find it.
Then you need the token and your phone number.
Again, all this is available in your Twilio account.
Now, once you do that, you'll be able to proceed to the next page where you're going to be able to
write all the SMS or text message should say, and who should receive this text message.
And for this you can select team member or you can use the numbers in a phone column.
So as simple as that you'll be able to create your text message automation.
The same works for a call.
So once you integrate on automation that includes a code.
What this is going to do is that when you click on say within your automation, a pop up box is going
to open and you can enter the text for the automated phone message.
And keep in mind that again, this message can include an item name, board, name, and any other information
that you need.
And not only that, but you will be able to also select the voice, the language, and the accent for
the automated message.
So what's going to happen, for example, in this case is let's say a message is changed to stock.
Then this is going to trigger an automation which is gonna call a phone number, and it's going to play
the pre-recorded automated message such as hey John, please keep in mind that this and this item has
been set to start a stack.
Please have a look when you have time.
So as you can imagine, Twilio is really a great automation to have in some cases.
But again, it's not free.
So it's going to be up to you whether this is something that you want to explore further.
Now, if you go to Twilio voice pricing, for example, for us, you'll be able to see how much it costs.
So this is for example for the US make and receive calls in the US.
And from here you'll be able to see the pay as you go service and how much it costs.
And you see that it's really reasonable about 1 to $0.02 per minute or something like this.
So this is Twilio.
I think it can be useful in some cases, but I'm not gonna tell you that it's mandatory.
It's definitely not.
You can still do everything in Monday with the free options, which are gonna send out notifications
to someone's email, for example.
But in cases where you need more advanced options, such as a notification sent via a call or text message
to a phone number, then Twilio can be a great option.
And let's now proceed to the next lesson.

--- Other Integration Use Cases and Best Practices ---

Hey.
Welcome back.
In the last few lessons, we've actually created a few integrations from scratch.
And to be honest, when you learn how to do 2 or 3 different integrations, you'll be able to do almost
anything in Monday without much need for help.
This is why instead of creating more lessons on how to do individual integrations, I want to spend
some time to talk about the overall integration center, what you have available here, and some tips
and tricks on what to use and when.
So we're going to explore this by using the categories here.
The first section is just explore by app.
Then we have featured section on some featured integrations by Monday.
So we're going to skip the X2 and we're going to head over from remote work below, because this is
actually going to cover every single integration that we have currently have within Monday.
So the first thing that I will do is I'll click on remote work and you'll see that we have three communication
channels that we can integrate with Monday Zoom, which we've already integrated.
And we also have slack where you can create automatic notifications to a channel.
And we also have Microsoft Teams where you can create notifications to specific teams channel.
Now, in my opinion, having an integration between one of these and Monday is what you can expect in
almost every single project that you have in Monday.
I believe that from my experience, pretty much every single organization out there is going to use
at least one of these three.
So it's going to be a good idea to keep in mind that whether your team is using zoom, slack, or Microsoft
Teams, you can integrate this with your Monday account.
Let's go to communications.
Under communications, we're going to have some repeat ones such as zoom, slack and Teams.
But we also have some extra integrations that we can do such as Gmail which we saw how we can do MailChimp
in case you're doing email marketing outlook.
Twilio, which we've done Todoist and HubSpot.
And integrating HubSpot can be really useful if you want to manage all your leads and contacts in Monday.com
to ensure that the entire company is collaborating together.
Then let's go to customer support.
Here we have Clearbit.
So Clearbit is going to allow you to pull lead company or candidate data into Monday.com.
But in my personal experience, I haven't seen many companies use it.
SurveyMonkey.
Probably everyone's aware of what this is used for.
This is going to allow you to collect survey responses within your Monday account.
Typeform.
Which is going to allow it to collect the data from a form that's been submitted.
And Zendesk, which is one of the most widely used customer ticketing tools out there.
So if your company is using Zendesk and if you're running a project for the department that's using
the Zendesk, it may be a good idea to see what are the different integration options that you have
here.
Then going to marketing.
You see that you can integrate Facebook ads.
This is gonna allow you to create, manage and track your Facebook ads all from Monday.com.
You also have Adobe Creative Cloud.
Then under e-commerce, if you're running events using Eventbrite, this is gonna allow you to log new
registrations from Eventbrite to room on the account.
And also you can integrate it with Shopify.
For example, when a new order is created, you can create an item for this order within Monday.
Then when you go to software development.
And by the way, you don't have to click here on the links on the left.
You can just scroll down.
So when you're under software development, you see that you can connect to GitHub, GitLab, Jira,
Pagerduty really depending on what your company is using.
It's really, really often that we integrate Monday with JIRA.
And when you click on Jira, there's some really useful features here, such as for example, when an
issue is created or updated in this project and you specify the project, create an item and sync future
changes from JIRA.
I find this integrations really useful.
After software development we have finance.
The first thing that we have here is harvest, which allows you to track expenses and build time based
reports using data inside your Monday.com account.
We have stripe, so you see that, for example, when a charge event occurs in stripe, create an item.
And when a charged event occurs in stripe, create an item and notify someone.
We also have toggle here, which is great for time tracking.
Then we have the CRM part.
Unfortunately, here we only have copper at the moment and we have the import section.
And this is not all.
If you cannot see the application that you want to integrate from here, first of all you can explore
the marketplace from here.
And under the marketplace here, you're going to have a lot more options.
That you can install as apps.
And if all this fails.
You can still scroll down.
And go to Zapier.
So unlike Monday.com, which has got a limited set of already existing integrations, Zapier will allow
you to integrate your Monday.com account with thousands of different applications.
I have never seen an application that we needed in a project that's not available in Zapier, so using
Zapier, you can build custom integrations between Monday and any application that's available in Zapier.
So keep this in mind if you want to integrate something that does not look available under monday.com.
And having said that, I believe you now have enough information on what you can do using the integration
options with Monday.com.
I believe you should not force it.
The way you should approach integrations is think about what other tools are used today within your
own company.
For example, if the team is using another set of 5 or 6 tools, see if it's going to make sense to
integrate some of these tools with your Monday.com account.
This is how I always approach integrations within my organization.
Hopefully this lesson was useful.
I definitely think integrations can really boost your productivity and efficiency in the long terme,
so I'm definitely going to advise you to spend some time and think about how you can integrate some
of the various tools that you use on a daily basis.

--- Get your company Developers involved ---

Hey.
Welcome back.
Monday is probably one of the most advanced project management tools out there.
Not only does it have great features in terms of visualization, project planning, different template
sets, security settings, and much more, but also it's building a whole community that's actually
building their own solutions and making them available on the apps marketplace.
So this is the apps marketplace, which we've explored.
So all these are solutions that have been created by different companies and users.
And you can install them.
Some of them are free.
For some of them you have a free trial, some of them got some paid features.
And the great news is that this is not limited to a specific set of components.
Even you yourself can actually develop an app.
So let's say that you have an use case which you want to solve with a simple new workflow or view.
And you don't find anything like this on the marketplace, right?
What you can do is go to the.
Developer section here.
And keep in mind that this is aimed at developers.
So the aim of this lesson is not really to get you started in learning how to code or anything like
this, but I want to make sure that you know that there is an option out there in which you can involve
your company's developers and develop something for yourself, and even sell it on the marketplace.
So when you click on the developers menu here.
This is where the magic begins.
This is where you can start building your own Monday app.
So what you'll do is you'll click on Create app.
And this page is going to be loaded.
Here you can give a name for new app.
My first app you can add a description.
These are the app credentials.
And at the bottom you can delete the app.
Now.
Also, if I click on collaborators from here, you can invite collaborators.
So for example, if you need a developer to work on this together with, you can add them here as a
collaborator.
You have the oath, which is gonna provide you the different options in which the app is going to be
able to access the data of the users.
The best practice is always to make sure the app consumes the least amount of user data.
But don't worry about this for now.
And here is where you actually start building your app.
Create features.
So when you click on create feature, you're going to see the different options.
That you can add to your app, so you can create a new view to visualize and update your boards.
You can create a new view to visualize and update your items.
You can create a new widget to visualize and update multiple boards.
You can create an integration and you can also create a workspace template.
So for example, if you're looking for widget in the dashboard widgets that you cannot find, you can
actually build it here on your own so you can choose it.
And then from here you can decide whether you want to start with quick start or from absolute scratch.
But again, this is really for your developers in your company.
So don't worry about this for now.
Although having said that, if you don't really want to deep dive into this and learn how to create
your own apps, you can always go to help here.
From the menu and here you have a guide on getting started.
You have some dev tutorials and you have the dev community.
If you have any questions, then afterwards you have the app versions where you can create new versions
of your app and do the version control.
From here you do the installation once you push something to live, and then from here you can share
it.
So we've covered the up building just to make sure that you're aware of the possibilities out there.
So if there is something specific that you want to do in Monday, that's really crucial for your company.
And this is not available in the features of Monday, and it's not available here under the marketplace.
Keep in mind that if you have the budget to develop it, such as resource time, you can always involve
a developer from your company to help you build it.
And through a good developer, it's not going to be really hard to build a up here, because the framework
is really streamlined to make it really easy to build something.
So keep that in mind.
If at some point you want to explore the app development features in Monday, let's now proceed to the
next lesson.

--- What's New? ---

Monday is one of this few project management tools where they create more and more useful features all
the time.
We've covered all the current really useful features that are available, but what I tend to do is every
1 or 2 weeks I go to the menu here and I click on What's New.
And from here, you're gonna find out all the great things that Monday's team had.
And you're gonna be one of the first people to find out about it.
So let's start from here.
You see, from four months ago, we have one,
23456789
1011.
So for just four months we have 11 new features or improvements to current features.
For example, the last one is that now we can create Subitems using the automations.
They've recently added the ability to change the height of the items and a lot of other useful things,
such as the Money Apps Marketplace that we just reviewed.
Make sure to come here every once in a while in what's new, and find out about the new features from
here.
This way, not only are you gonna be an expert in the tool, but you really are gonna be one of the
few people that are going to use the full potential of the software, because what tends to happen is
that you get used to the tool, and you get used to working in a certain way, and then you completely
forget that the team that created the software is probably working on it and adding new and new features,
and you never use them or you don't even find out about them.
So my tip for you is to just come here and check this once in a while.
In order to make the most out of your experience with the software.
Thank you.
Let's now proceed to the next lesson.

--- Thank you ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Bonus Lecture ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]
