

=== Welcome & Introduction ===


--- Introduction ---

Presentations are one of the most popular business communication tools, second only to email.
They attract clients and keep employees on track.
Hi, my name is John Burris and I've designed more than a thousand management consulting presentations
throughout my career.
So if you're ready to up your presentation game, then join me on this course.
Perhaps the most required skill of all for workers, sales executives, entrepreneurs and educators
is designing a presentation.
You might be reporting performance metrics, delivering training, or pitching your big idea.
But whatever your purpose, you need a presentation to support you and illuminate your speech to make
it memorable.
I'm going to take you through the Essentials of Consulting presentation to give you the tools you'll
find most useful in thinking about designing and building your presentation to help you make it a success.
In this course, I'll show you how to build a McKinsey style presentation from scratch so you can find
exactly what you need, exactly when you need it.
I'll show you the most comprehensive presentation techniques that are widely used in McKinsey, BCG
and Bain.
We'll take a look at the planning toolkits to dramatically enhance your presentations, as well as how
to deliver your presentation and communicate with your audiences.
Like a management consultant, we're going to follow a simple but powerful structure in this training
program plan.
Do.
Check.
Act.
This framework will cover a full cycle of making a presentation, from planning a storyline to creating
a data visualization, from setting up your meeting room to managing presentation nerves, which I wish
I could have known in my early 20s, because this set of skills is what we can make the difference between
mediocre and extraordinary careers.
So learning to craft, build and deliver effective management consulting presentations is a skill you
have to learn and continuously improve upon to succeed in the business world.
Let's have fun!
As we begin to take a look at one of the many exciting possibilities inside of management consulting
presentations.

--- What You Should Know Before Starting This Course ---

In this course.
We'll be working with Dex, so it would be great if you had some hands on experience in using presentation
applications like PowerPoint or Apple Keynote.
And meanwhile, I'll assume you have basic knowledge about management consulting and are familiar with
business presentations, as well as creating and editing various types of content.
But there are no mandatory prerequisites for this course, so you can just dive right in.
What's important before you start watching is just keeping an open mind.
You might worry, based on past experiences, that you're not good at creating or presenting slides
to a group of people.
We've all been there.
I'm going to introduce a system to build a great management consulting presentation, the system that
differentiates people who succeed from those that don't.
The system that covers almost everything you need to create compelling, memorable, and persuasive
presentations.
And that's what we're going to cover in this course.
I hope it proves useful and maybe even transformative for you.


=== Plan – Structuring Your Presentation Storyline ===


--- Why Do Consultants Use PPT So Much ---

Consultants spend hours making slides.
It's a common sight to see them poring over their PowerPoint slides, moving pages around, adjusting
the axes on graphs, mulling over wording, checking headlines, and proofreading.
Presentations are also called deliverables because they're the products we deliver to clients.
It's a core part of the job, but it's commonly misunderstood.
To the casual observer, it might seem excessive or a waste of time.
Who knows, some might even think it's narcissistic, like someone who spends too much time in front
of the mirror in the morning.
After all, isn't it the content that's important?
Why bother with all the structured presentation?
Couldn't it all just be in a written document or a memo?
Oh, you're so good at making presentations.
I've heard this more than once, and it drives me a bit crazy.
The pretty part of the presentation is the equivalent of choosing the garnish for a plate of pasta,
or the jacket design for a book.
A client's paying 250 to $500 per billable hour for presentation jockeys.
I doubt it.
So why do consultants use PowerPoints so much?
First, it forces brevity.
Good presentations are succinct.
They may have a 60 page appendix, but the executive summary will be terse and have a point of view.
Using the analogy of a tree, the presentation is the fruit.
The consultant may have paid their dues with endless late nights analysis and interviews, but the end
result is a presentation.
There's no glory in showing the client all the gory details.
You need to really boil it down to its essence.
Apply the 80 over 20 principle and give the client only the good stuff.
Harvard Business School essays have a limit of 400 words, which is really tough to do.
Two executors are short on time.
Often, the executive sponsor of a project will really only commit 10 to 12 hours of total time for
a three month project.
The client project lead will be working with you on a day to day basis, but you have to remember that
executives are short on time and long on opinion.
They're not going to read a 100 page word document.
Three.
Communication is the goal.
Consultants are hired to effectively solve problems.
This often means persuading people to take action.
It's not enough to put smart things on paper.
There need to be results.
And for executives are visual people.
Maybe it's because they deal with lots of information every day.
Maybe they just watch too much TV like everyone else.
Graphs, tables, lists, groups, diagrams all help to convey a lot of information in a concise way.


=== Do – Crafting and Designing Your Slides ===


--- How to Use the Exercises ---

If you're a paid member of this course, you have access to exercise files used throughout the course.
They can be downloaded from the Supplementary Materials section of the lecture.
Let's take a look.
Everything you need is in the Exercise Files folder.
This includes subfolders including the case studies, management consulting, presentations, and fully
editable templates.
In this course, each chapter is broken into sections and each section contains course keynotes, quizzes,
best practice, and further reading to test your knowledge and get the most out of the course.
You can practice the tools and techniques on your own or with your friends, of course, but the best
way to get started with each section is to apply the knowledge in your workspace directly.
That can put theory into practice, and you can also share them with your coworkers to increase their
knowledge base and instill the confidence of your team.


=== Check – Reviewing and Finalizing Your Presentation ===


--- Preparation – Key Learning Principles ---

As you've enrolled in one of my online training programs, distance learning can give you a unique combination
of flexibility and support, which makes such a successful way to learn.
However, online training can also be challenging and inside distractions.
So here are my three principles that can help you build a great foundation for effective learning.
First, here and now.
This means simply being in the here and now and ways to help you do this include putting your phone
on Do not Disturb, avoiding looking at new emails and not looking at social media like Twitter, Facebook
or Instagram.
Try to focus on what's happening in front of you, whether that's a conversation, a presentation,
or some other activity.
By doing these things, you're more likely to be in the here and now.
Second is the stretch zone.
This means stepping out of your comfort zone.
By doing so, you move into the second zone or what I call the stretch zone, but avoid going into the
third zone, which is the stress zone.
It's in the stretch zone that you'll learn buzzwords which you might hear for the stretch zone are closed,
unsafe pressure and anxiety, excitement.
And third is the inner critic.
We're all familiar with our inner voice.
If you're not, it's that little voice in your head.
I suggest that when you want to learn, try ignoring this voice.
If it's saying don't do this or what will they think of me by ignoring the voice, you can take risks
and you will learn more.


=== Act – Delivering Your Presentation with Impact ===


--- Exploring Presentation Apps ---

We are so lucky these days.
Back in the 1990s, my first ever slide presentations were 35mm slides that were incredibly expensive
to produce and deploy.
But fortunately for all of us, those days are a distant memory.
And although the sleepless nights to meet deadlines will probably never go away, we've got some great
packages we can now employ to get the job done.
Now, while there are quite a few software or services around, there are still three major players
in the world of presentation.
The first of those is PowerPoint, with a name that's almost synonymous with presentation.
It's been around the longest of all of them, I think around 1987 when it was first introduced, and
it's perhaps considered to be the industry standard.
The next one is keynote from Apple.
This has been around since about 2003 and is very popular in the tech world, especially with startups,
and it's trusted for big arena presentations as well.
And finally, Google Slides, which is completely free, very popular in the education market for exactly
that reason.
And it's very, very capable.
So it's worth looking at.
And there are of course a whole bunch of other applications and services, some of which are available
online only, like Canva and Prezi.
But the great news for you as far as this course goes is it doesn't matter what you choose to work with,
as what will be investigating is more about the why of designing a presentation than the how.
So you can adapt what you learn to whatever software you decide to work with.


=== Using ChatGPT to Improve Your Slides ===


--- Sample Consulting Decks from McKinsey, BCG & Accenture ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Conclusion and Next Steps ===


--- Free Gift (Worth $199) ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- What Is Management Consulting? ---

Let's start today by asking, what is management consulting?
What does it mean to us?
How does it differ from consultants?
We've all met people who introduce themselves as consultants, and they work in a wide range of functions
and sectors.
Management consulting, however, focuses on the industry of supporting and guiding management.
The goal is to give insight to management about how to improve the performance of their organisations.
I say organisations because management consultants aren't limited to the private sector.
They also play an active role in advising governments and non-profit organisations.
Consultancy firms offer services across all areas of business, from HR and sales to strategy and technology.
The broad span of consulting work makes it an attractive career, offering a variety of projects, challenges
and opportunities for personal development.
When looking for what management consulting firms have in common, the easiest similarity to spot is
that they focus on hiring the brightest people they can.
The candidates they look at are problem solvers who can adapt to new situations.
Their communication skills are superb, and they can work in a professional manner with clients on a
daily basis.
Consultants need to utilize these skills to collect information, find insights and then explain their
conclusions to clients.
The typical day may involve meeting their clients, analysing data and creating PowerPoints which clearly
convey their work.
The aim of all these presentations with data analysis is that management consultants are there to provide
practical insights and solutions which management can act on.
So, as a management consultant, delivering effective and engaging presentations to a variety of audiences
is absolutely critical.
During a project and in the following lecture, we'll quickly introduce what a consulting project is
all about.

--- What Is a Consulting Project? ---

Now we understand broadly the fundamentals.
Let's look closer at what a consulting project is.
A consulting project can last for weeks, months or even years.
It's a collaborative process which involves a client and a team of consultants.
Their common goal is to solve one or more key problems faced by the client.
The consulting project has been created because the client wants an external expert opinion on a topic
they view to be of great importance.
An example of a project is focusing on a five year strategic planning for the product being developed
and sold by the client, or alternatively, the goal could be more immediate, such as reducing costs,
considering an acquisition or whether a corporate restructuring is needed.
The value of the consulting team to the client is not just the in-depth and external analysis, but
also the assessment of what outcomes may happen if a plan is implemented.
To understand how we get to those outcomes, I'll take you through the six main project phases.
So first we need to look at defining the problem.
This is in many ways the most critical stage of a project.
An incorrect definition.
Expectations not being managed along with other uncertainties may lead to months of futile work.
Normally, when hiring a consultant, the client will already have a problem in mind, but a good consultant
will aim to quickly differentiate problem symptoms from causes.
We'll then work with the client to redefine, possibly expand the project scope.
In doing so, the consultant will define with their client what questions need to be addressed, the
work methods to be used, and establish which data sources and corporate resources will be made available
to the consultant.
And critically, what will the final deliverable work be?
Secondly, structuring the problem.
What this means is that a question is broken down into more manageable chunks.
Each chunk can then be meaningfully analysed.
A possible structure might look like a tree, such as the driver tree, issue tree, or hypothesis tree.
Alternatively, it could be a straightforward list of bullet points, normally with several levels of
subbullets.
Once the problem is structured, the consulting team will move on to developing a hypothesis.
From the start, a consulting team will try to form a hypothesis about the cause and effect of the problem
statement.
This initial hypothesis will be expanded to include the key questions that must be answered and analysed
during the project.
With these points in place, a project plan and timeline will be made.
These will be presented to the client for their approval and with this groundwork laid down, the rest
of the project will try to answer the key questions that will either prove or disprove the initial hypothesis.
So now the project has that initial hypothesis.
We move to the fourth stage which is building a work plan.
The work plan is a key tool to manage your consultancy project.
A work plan can help make the time estimates in a project proposal more realistic.
A detailed work plan should continue to evolve but provide the framework which guides the entire project.
Since the work plan is an internal document for the team, it doesn't need to be pretty, just functional.
Next is the conduct analysis.
With the work plan in place, the team will then conduct analysis at the start of the project.
The consultant's primary objective will be to familiarize themselves with the client and senior management
team.
This involves extensive interviews with senior management where the key strategic problems will be addressed.
Alongside this, in-depth research of the industry and market trends will be conducted.
Normally, a firm would also review their previous projects, which are similar at larger firms.
They'll use their global network to identify similar projects to give them a bigger picture of what
has been and what can be done.
And six is synthesis and recommendation.
Upon completing the data gathering and analysis exercise, we move to the final stage of the project.
And the aim, of course, is a final presentation which will include summarizing the efforts, results,
implications and recommendations of the projects.
Normally, a senior partner who's the primary client relationship manager will prevent these findings.
Junior team members provide support as needed to the senior partner.
One of the core skills consultants develop, and one which is highly prized in the industry, is to
be able to take complex information, analyze it and boil it down to straightforward presentations with
recommendations.
It's in this final stage of developing the client presentation in conjunction with senior partners and
managers, where most management consultants learn the skills of distilling critical points.
However, it doesn't mean we only use presentations in the final phase of a project.
We'll use slides for executive update meetings, focus interviews, and even internal alignment meetings.
Consultants will spend at least 40% of their time on creating their storyline, making headlines, finding
data to support their key points, and making recommendations which are most likely to occur in their
presentations.
Now we know the process of the consulting project and the unique role of presentations.
So in the upcoming lecture, we're going to understand the underlying logic of this course, which is
plan, do, check and act.

--- The Plan-Do-Check-Act (PDCA) Cycle Explained ---

As we know, being able to plan and deliver an expert keynote presentation is an essential skill since
it's one of the main deliverables for a management consultant.
Presentations play a main role in determining how the client views the deliverables from a project.
A presentation provides an opportunity to present a sound basis of the solution you're putting forward
behind the ideas, and the presentation will be a lot of work if you get it wrong, though, it can
lead to damage to you and your firm's reputations.
So how to get it right?
Well, you need to make sure you have the skills and knowledge to develop and deliver a great presentation
every time.
The key to this is to have a process in place which you can follow.
Therefore, if you need to change an element or solve a problem, you already have a method in place
to do so.
This process in developing your presentation will see that you and your team plan, test and incorporate
feedback as you develop the presentation.
One of the most popular methods for doing this is the plan do check act cycle or pdCA.
There are four steps or phases in the pdCA cycle.
In the first step, the plan phase, we're going to plan the overall presentation logic, craft the
key messages, and create a storyline which will give us the structure around which the presentation
deck should be built, and help us lay out the entire storyline without investing the time to create
PowerPoint pages and exhibits.
The next stage is do.
We'll get down to creating our presentation and I'll be explaining how to build cover, agenda, headline,
body kicker, and almost every element in a consulting presentation.
In the next phase check, you're looking to measure how effective the do stage was.
This will enable us to incorporate the additional findings and improvements.
So in this phase, we'll explore a set of checking points to make sure the final work is ready to present
to our clients.
And the final step is Act.
And this is when you need to finalize the presentation fully.
We'll go through the techniques to give an extraordinary presentation.
So we've got lots of stuff to cover.
Let's get started.

--- Key Building Blocks of a Presentation ---

Let's have a look at the main building blocks in a typical management consulting presentation.
First, on the top of each slide is a title or headline.
We've noticed numerous presentation titles in other industries are just short and general phrases such
as financial analysis and mid-year review.
But the headline from an elite firm is usually a sentence.
The sentence captures the key takeaway and always guides the reader to take an action.
From a design perspective.
The font, size and position of the headline should be consistent throughout the presentation.
In my firm, 24 point, Calibri is preferred because it's widely available to readers familiar and easy
on the eye.
Even Microsoft has changed their system default font from old Standard Times New Roman to Calibri to
modernize the look and feel of documents created by their office applications.
Moreover, font psychology research has revealed that readers associate Calibri with stability.
Clients love stability.
In a presentation right below the headline, you can find a body to support it.
The primary types of body are words, tables, and graphs, which I'll be explaining the use of each
of them in later chapters.
If you have a chance to check McKinsey style presentation or even articles, you'd be surprised that
management consultants use graphics a lot to reinforce their key messages by adding pictures, diagrams,
and charts.
Because of course, a picture means a thousand words sometimes.
I saw many junior consultants insert irrelevant graphics just for aesthetic reasons, but in my view,
that's not my preference.
When you intend to do that, please bear in mind the body should always support your main idea.
If you need to present complex drawings like an architectural diagram, my recommendation is to start
with a high level overview and look into each layer afterwards.
When you have data analysis, be sure you've included the info source not just for copyright, but it
can also give your analysis lots of credit when you're referring to a reliable and trusted data source.
From time to time, a management consultant would make good use of a kicker at the bottom of a slide.
To conclude key takeaways or make a smooth transition to the next slide.
You can find kickers in almost every page of a McKinsey style presentation, but it's not mandatory.

--- Basic Building Blocks ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Crafting an Effective Headline ---

Let's say you're a junior consultant.
Your partner, your boss, wants to review the slides you've created.
When they first look at the slides, they'll be looking at the storyboard.
They're unlikely to remember or focus on the content.
Now, I say this to emphasize how important the headlines are to consulting when creating your headlines.
You shouldn't throw data into them or make what you think sound like clever two word headlines, or
just be lazy going for short ones.
No, the headline should say exactly what you want to say and provide insight to the reader.
The insight is key.
Without something helpful, the headline lacks impact.
One very important role to remember is your headline should be self-explanatory, which means if you
have to explain what it means, then it doesn't work.
When creating a slide, aim for a slide which can stand by itself.
The way to test if this is the case is to consider whether your message would be conveyed if no one
was doing a voiceover on it.
Would the key point still come across if they wouldn't?
Your slides are wrong.
The slides must be able to speak for themselves.
When you create slides for a presentation, they must be able to be a standalone document.
If you find yourself creating a presentation which needs supplementary documents to understand it,
then the presentation has a problem.
The aspect is a key rule.
It's one also that young consultants often have a hard time with, since it can be intimidating to present
to a partner without providing all the background information which has gone into the conclusions.
The point is to always remember you have to present that background information.
Then there's something wrong in your presentation, so get it right.
Each page needs to be driven by the key message, not the data.
Data is important, but it comes later when you're verifying the headlines.
One way to think of this is a horizontal and vertical logic line.
This means one headline should lead to another headline, which leads to another headline.
So as that reader quickly reads just the headlines, they see a message developing.
That's horizontal logic.
In this example, the slides provide the bottom line up front message.
International posts are already well diversified.
The first of the two slides provide conclusive proof by showing not only that the majority of posts
derive 40% or more of their revenue from non mail, but also that non mail represents the majority of
revenue across the entire sample.
The second of the two slides reveals which posts are included in their sample.
Vertical logic is that the headline goes to the top of the body of the data.
Must directly support what you're saying here.
It's always tempting to put in a lot of information, and I've seen this with lots of slides at different
companies, even top firms like BCG and McKinsey.
You must remember to have more white space on slides than actual content.
The logical appeal of your presentation deals with design elements, both visual and verbal, that help
your audience recall your main message and your supporting points.
Imagine this as being the roadmap of your message.
You want your audience to know where the final destination is and how they will get there.

--- Maintaining Vertical & Horizontal Logic (MECE Principle) ---

So in a management consulting presentation, the vertical logic and horizontal logic must be messy,
mutually exclusive, and collectively exhaustive.
Messy, as popular and consulting as it allows consultants to communicate complex information to clients
in a manner which eliminates confusion and ensures thoroughness.
So messy is a principle frequently used by management consulting firms when looking at a business problem.
The messy principle suggests that all the options for solving these problems be grouped and categorized
in a particular way.
More specifically, it means that all the information should be grouped into categories when there's
no overlap between them, i.e. mutually exclusive, and that the categories added together should cover
all possible options, i.e. collectively exhaustive.
Combined, they make up messy.
Let me give you an example of a grouping structure that is not messy grouping customers by their hobbies.
This isn't messy, as individual customers may appear under more than one hobby category.
If you wanted to use messy to group customers, then you could use age group.
This is messy because no one individual can appear in more than one category, thus satisfying the need
to be mutually exclusive.
And since the age grouping is taken as a whole, cover the entire population, they are collectively
exhaustive.
Therefore, combined they are messy.
Messy isn't limited to grouping items, though it can also be applied to explain a particular mechanism.
For example, profits equals revenues minus costs.
This is a messy framework.
It's a straightforward way of explaining that to increase profits, one of two events must happen.
Either revenues must increase or cost must decrease.
The components of revenue, normally unit pricing and units sold don't appear in the cost category and
vice versa, so it passes the mutually exclusive test.
In addition, if you combine all the factors, i.e. both revenue and costs, the combination of all
categories complete the movement in the profits.
No other factor is missing, so it's considered collectively exhaustive and can be viewed as messy.
You can actually look at revenues as messy in their own right.
Look at its components with the formula.
Revenues equals price times units sold.
This is simple to understand by breaking down financial metrics into easy to grasp components that are
also messy.
It makes it easy to see what operating levers you can use to influence the financial metrics a consultant
is trying to improve, and the messy principle doesn't stop there.
It can also be applied to conceptual data, both qualitative and quantitative.
For example, if a client was to ask should I enter X market?
The consultant might look at two possible factors when analyzing the decision.
First, financial factors.
and secondly, non-financial factors.
Every possible reason for or against this decision can be grouped into either financial or non-financial
factors.
Largely speaking, items that are financial can't appear in non-financial categories and vice versa,
so the categorizations are mutually exclusive.
And if you combine financial and non-financial factors together, there can be no other reason why entering
the certain market is a good or bad idea, because the categories cover all the possible factors to
be considered.
So it's also a collectively exhaustive structure.
So we've achieved mutually exclusive and collectively exhaustive.
Therefore, it can be considered messy.
If you worry that it isn't messy, then don't worry.
When you finish up the headlines of your presentations, you can use a whiteboard to write them down.
Check each headline to see if each slide can only fit into one key message at a time, and all slides
can cover all insights without overlaps.
Again, each idea should be mutually exclusive and not overlap with the others.
Otherwise you'll confuse the audience.
And that's the me part.
And don't leave anything out.
If you plan to talk about your distribution channels, you shouldn't mysteriously leave one of them
out or the audience expects you to be complete.
That's the C part.
Now, in the next lecture, we're going to go through how to use storyboarding techniques to build that
storyline.

--- Storyboarding Your Presentation ---

We can use a storyboard concept to help us better understand and create the storyline of the presentation.
This concept is very commonly used in management consulting.
Storyboards act as a fast way to set up a presentation in a structured manner.
They were developed by Walt Disney Productions during the early 1930s.
Originally used to pre-visualize a movie, their preference was to use big paper, draw the sheets,
define the titles with a sentence, then put the overall content on those sheets.
By doing this, they could check the overall story for logic and consistency.
For a smaller scale, when starting on an animation, the team which will create it must first agree
on what the story is they're going to tell.
This is agreed before they produce a detailed animations with A4 pieces of paper in hand.
The animation team gathers together.
On each piece of paper.
They write out a short ten word description of a scene.
They then do a 15 second pencil sketch to outline the animation, which could go into this part of the
movie.
Taking all things together, they can deliver around 30 to 120 A4 pages, stick them on a divider in
an arrangement, and everyone will have the capacity to understand the story.
This permits the group to discuss it and inform them without costly work being done unnecessarily.
Should the story change?
To extend the similarity to a management consulting storyboard, the consulting team needs to set up
an account of their message so that everybody in the group can comprehend their reasoning and give criticism.
The management Consulting storyboard is fundamentally the features of the presentation, which condense
the foreseen outcomes because of the work stream or from the whole strategy.
Study.
At this stage, you don't have to be elaborate about how you do it, and it's a great way to sort out
the presentation logic visually prior to building.
Here's a tip on visuals don't start designing slides first before you open PowerPoint or keynote.
Take out a notepad and start sketching out your presentation.
Think of each page in two simple chunks the key message and the body, which is usually your analysis
detail to support your key message.
Set yourself up as the most knowledgeable person on the topic because of your interest and the research
you've done.
Set up your theme whether three facts are a story, and preview the main points you'll be discussing.
Line up each of the points with subpoints and supporting evidence.
Think through some smooth transitions that flow from one point to the next, naturally and logically,
your theme for the presentation should be the thread that loosely floats in and out of your points and
stories by holding them together in one uniform message.
Let's go through each step in greater detail.
Taylor.
What I share to meet your needs.
Great storyboarding is like great writing.
The same rules of communication apply.
Start with an outline.
Chunk your presentation into multiple hierarchical levels like an outline, subject matter, complexity
and duration drives the number of levels needed.
For example, a two day PowerPoint presentation teaching quantum mechanics may require four or more
levels.
Use as many as you need, but remember to keep it simple.
It's your job to remove all superfluous data and information and tell the simplest story possible.
I usually follow these two steps to outline the storyboard.
The first is to define the function, objective, or outcomes of this consulting project.
For example, we need to reduce costs by 10% with three solutions.
Solution one the new procedure reduces cost by 5%.
Reduce extra work by confirming data is accurate.
Eliminate two days work by automating the renewal process.
Avoid collections by automatically sending out a notice and ensure documents are received on time with
system confirmations.
Solution two.
Updated training reduces costs by 3%.
Save $1 million annually with online training.
Attendee numbers increase because geography is no longer an issue.
Faster adoption with less training because the training is more applicable and recall is improved with
quick reference guides and solution.
Three site visits reduce costs by 2%.
They lower the likelihood of production errors with on site inspections.
Travel cost is low and return on investment is high.
Relationships build trust and compliance increases with visit frequency.
The next step is to write down the summary.
Validate that cost reduction by 10% with three new solutions.
When first creating your outline and storyboard, expect holes, slides, and sections may need more
information or thought, and also expect to struggle with the benefits.
Capture what you can and organize in a way that makes sense and is hierarchical.
Then go back and refine it.
When you finish this up by using the storyboarding techniques, we can go ahead and create the version
of the storyline.
So I'll see you on the next movie.

--- Basic Storylines for Business Presentations ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Building a “Dot-Dash” Storyline Draft ---

If you're working with a McKinsey partner to prepare decks when being asked to work on a storyline,
you may be asked to prepare a version of that storyline.
But what is a storyline?
Well, simply Dot Dash is referring to a bullet point, an outline format where a main top level ideas
to drive the storyline are designated with round dot shaped bullet points and B second level supporting
ideas, facts and exhibits are indented and designated with dashes.
These dots and dashes provide the structure around which the PowerPoint deck should be built.
But why are these concepts important?
Well, by using the dot dash approach, the entire storyline can be laid out without investing the time
to create full PowerPoint slides.
If changes need to be made to the storyline, you can find out before many resources are spent.
Consider how long it would take you to create a PowerPoint, even just a simple one.
Sometimes it's also known as a ghost deck, which is to be reviewed by key stakeholders.
If the feedback comes back that the storyline is wrong, some of the pages are off point and there's
important content missing, then not only do you have a lot of work to be redone, but you have also
wasted time creating the content in the first place.
That's time you and your client can't get back.
Alternatively, consider the same scenario, but instead you simply provide a storyline outline.
While there will be a lot of work ahead of you, the structure will give you some valuable lessons about
the deck at minimal cost and better inform you as to what you need to spend time on.
If this approach is to be effective, you must do it early and get quick feedback from key stakeholders.
This will give you time to correct the course if necessary.

--- Write First, Format Later ---

When it comes to writing, focusing on content before appearance is key.
Formatting can be a tempting distraction.
Adjusting margins, tweaking font sizes, or playing with bold and italic text might feel productive,
but it often leads to procrastination.
The essence of good writing lies in the clarity of your ideas, not the elegance of your documents layout.
That's not to say formatting has no role in the writing process.
A clear structure can serve as a helpful guide.
Starting with an outline and using simple headings and subheadings can maintain your focus and ensure
your argument flows logically.
For instance, consider the writer of this very chapter.
As he drafted his initial thoughts, he applied basic formatting for headings based on his outline.
This visual organization helped him stay on track without derailing his momentum.
However, like many writers, he fell into the common trap of excessive tinkering.
Adjusting indents, experimenting with typefaces, and perfecting the placement of bold text might have
looked pleasing on screen, but it ultimately consumed time and disrupted his thought process.
The pursuit of visual perfection, especially in the early stages, rarely enhances the quality of the
writing itself.
The takeaway?
Prioritize your ideas.
Write freely.
Embrace the inevitable roughness of a first draft, and save the formatting for later.
By doing so, you'll find yourself more deeply engaged with your thoughts and produce a stronger, clearer
piece of writing.

--- The Pyramid Principle – Logic in Writing and Thinking ---

At McKinsey, there is an emphasis on the importance of a structured storyboard, with presentations
with recommendations being given to busy executives in just a few minutes.
It was key that the message is crisp.
Then, if the executives are interested, they can ask questions to dig deeper and then more details
can be presented.
One of the tools used in McKinsey is the pyramid principle.
This is a methodology for structured communication.
The key points are.
Begin with the answer group and summarize your supporting arguments and logically order your supporting
ideas.
Answering a busy executive's question first is the way you should start.
With the answer in place.
You can then explain the supporting arguments.
This approach is called a top down structure.
It may seem counter-intuitive to many, especially those from a scientific or engineering background,
as for many of us, it feels more natural to build up to a conclusion.
We do this by going through the facts, explaining the analyses, and any supporting ideas.
With that in place, you make the conclusion.
But that's not how it's done at McKinsey and McKinsey.
Start with the answer.
First was a must.
If an executive asked a question such as what should we do?
The consultant should reply, you should do x.
This answer should be crisp and direct with the answer given.
The supporting reasons can be explained.
Why is it this way round?
The reasons are.
One.
You want to maximize your time with your audience.
Since your client, the executive, is likely to be a busy person, they're always short on time to
reach their position, though they used to processing lots of information quickly.
This can manifest itself as being impatient when they feel like someone isn't getting to the point.
By making recommendations first, you can satisfy their desire for an answer and then focus on the details
they care most about.
Sometimes the executive may already be mentally at the conclusion you want them to reach.
In this situation, they'll accept your recommendation and move on without the need to review all your
arguments and supporting details.
If the worst happens in your headline, you've made a terrible mistake.
The key message is completely wrong.
However, answer of first approach will let your audience correct you at the first place, and then
you can save everyone's time.
If you don't apply the answer first approach.
You started with a lot of analysis and raw data, and after ten minutes you might lead your audience
to the wrong message.
In my view, that is much worse.
Secondly, executives tend to think with a top down approach.
They want the big picture, which in our case means the answer.
By delivering your recommendation in the answer first format, you're matching the executives mental
model.
And thirdly, and finally, being direct means you're more persuasive by answering the question first.
It makes you sound more assertive and confident.
You're plainly and directly answering the question that was posed to you.
You're not searching for reasons or words, and you don't sound like you're wavering when you're a junior
consultant.
Applying pyramid principles can be hard because it's very different from our regular left to right thinking
approach, since most of the tasks we're dealing with are process driven, it seems that everything
only makes sense to think from beginning to end.
For example, in a project, we need to clearly show the client and the team what the approach is.
Then provide a weekly or monthly roadmap of where the project is headed, and break the work into manageable
pieces and set the tempo of the project.
Then step one, two, three were actually outlining a process.
But when we deal with persuasive presentation, we really need right to left, purpose driven approach
to figure out what it is we're trying to achieve, what we're trying to say, what success looks like
in the first place.
So group and summarize your supporting arguments.
Whoever your audience is and whether they're listeners or readers, all of them will begin to group
and summarize your arguments and ideas in order to remember them.
Given this, you should try and help them do it.
By doing so, you'll make your overall recommendation more effective and memorable.
The Pyramid Principle advocates that ideas in writing should always form a pyramid under a single thought.
What the single thought is, is the answer to the executive's question.
Underneath the single thought, you're supposed to group and summarize the next level of supporting
ideas and arguments for each supporting idea or argument, break that into further ideas or arguments.
Then you'll have formed a pyramid.
The pyramid principle teaches that ideas at any level in the pyramid must always be summaries of the
ideas group below them.
Next, decompose an argument into a pyramid structure.
The magic number of ideas in a group is three, commonly known as the rule of three.
When grouping and then summarizing supporting arguments, it's easy to go from a single thought to the
next level of ideas without becoming too detailed right away.
For example, in January 2009, Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer opened the Consumer Electronics Show in
Las Vegas.
It was his first keynote speech at the conference.
He also understood the value of the rule of three in providing a verbal roadmap for his listeners.
The groups of three just kept coming.
Here are a few examples from his keynote.
I want to spend time with you talking about the economy, our industry, and the work we're doing at
Microsoft.
When I think about opportunities in my mind, I frame it in three key areas.
The first is the convergence of the three screens people use every day PC, phone, and TV.
The second major area is how you will interact with your computer and other devices in a more natural
way.
And the last area of opportunity is what I call connected experiences.
Looking back, there were three things that made windows and the PC successful.
First, the PC enabled the best applications and let them work together.
Second, the PC enabled more choice in hardware.
And third, the windows experience helped us all work together.
Ballmer used groups of three no fewer than five times in one presentation, making his speech much easier
to follow.
And I believe he understood that explaining complex technology in language that's easy to follow is
the first step to creating excitement among existing and future customers.
Next, logically order your supporting ideas.
You'll want to ensure the ideas you're bringing together under each group actually do belong together.
And by this I mean they're the same level of importance and follow a logical structure.
There are a few approaches you can take to achieve this.
First time order.
If there's a sequence of events that form a cause effect relationship, you should present the ideas
in time order.
Then structural order break a singular thought into its parts.
Doing so ensures you have covered all the major supporting ideas and degree order.
Presenting supporting ideas in rank, order of importance from most to least important.
When combining the Pyramid Principle with the Rule of Three, it becomes an extremely powerful structured
communication tool for making recommendations.
The pyramid principle is, however, not just valuable for communicating with executives.
It's a very effective way to persuade anyone with an argument.
For example, as an entrepreneur, you could use the tool to convey your argument to investors or your
company board.
As a leader in any type of organization, the pyramid principle can be used to communicate with peers
or project stakeholders when making an important proposal.
If you want to learn more about the pyramid principle, I'd strongly suggest reading the original book
by Barbara minto.
I'd also suggest you try using the Pyramid Principle next time you're writing a presentation.
The results from doing so should be really great.
Now let's check another example.
The root node of the situation is this slide.
And it's only child node.
Is this one a summary node outlining three root causes.
Following the depth first tree traversal method the next slide must explore something having to do with
revenue declines.
But what?
Once again, the content of the next slide is always the answer to the natural question triggered by
the current one.
Audience members want to know why are revenues declining?
The messy set of root causes for declining male revenues must consider changes in pricing and changes
in volume.
Precisely the two factors explored in the next slide in the series, as shown here, the slide thoroughly
explains the pricing problem.
The PA of 2006 limited increases by anchoring male pricing to the Consumer Price Index.
But the slide only introduces the problem with male volumes.
To explain why actual male volume in 2009 was significantly below even the downside forecast, we need
to traverse one level deeper in the revenue decline part of the tree as shown here.
The shortfall is due to two factors.
The first, economic recession is reasonably well illustrated in the chart.
The second E diversion is mentioned only in the header and unfortunately not supported by proof in this
or subsequent slides.

--- What Is Thinking? And Why It Matters in Business ---

Let's start with a fundamental question what is thinking?
The surprising answer is that no one really knows exactly what thinking is.
But we do understand its purpose.
The purpose of thinking is actually to stop thinking.
This might sound paradoxical, but let me explain.
The human brain is essentially a pattern recognition machine that tries its hardest to simplify life
by setting up routine patterns of perception and action.
Once you identify a pattern, you can flow along it without further mental effort.
Consider this simple example getting dressed in the morning.
If you had to consciously think through which order to put on your six pieces of clothing, you would
need to sort through 47,000 possible combinations.
You'd never leave the house.
But because your brain has created automatic patterns, you get dressed quickly each day without conscious
thought.
This mechanism is incredibly useful for routine tasks, but it becomes problematic in business and complex
problem solving situations.
When managers are faced with a problem or opportunity, they implicitly rely on these patterns of perception
which have developed from their skills, experience, and knowledge to solve it.
But this automatic response is not thinking it's pattern matching.
True thinking is the discipline of restraining these natural impulses and forcing the brain to deal
with what is actually in front of it, not what it perceives is in front of it.
This distinction is crucial because our perceptions are often incomplete, biased, or simply wrong.
There's a beautiful Japanese proverb that captures the challenge of thinking birds fly when they get
tired.
They land.
Man thinks when he gets tired, he says, I understand.
This highlights our tendency to stop thinking prematurely.
When we encounter mental fatigue.
Thinking is made more difficult by the confusion between two distinct forms of complexity.
Detailed complexity occurs due to the sheer number of variables involved in a situation.
Think of a large spreadsheet with hundreds of rows and columns of data.
The challenge here is organizational.
How do you bring all this detail together and create order?
The thinking task involves categorization, prioritization, and systematic analysis.
Dynamic complexity occurs due to the nature of the interrelationships between variables or elements
of a system.
This is like understanding how changing one element in an ecosystem affects all the other elements in
unpredictable ways.
The thinking task here involves identifying the variables and understanding how they influence each
other.
Most business problems involve both types of complexity, but we often focus only on detail complexity
because it's more visible and seems more manageable.
However, the real breakthroughs usually come from understanding dynamic complexity, the hidden relationships
and feedback loops that drive system behavior.

--- Two Approaches to Thinking ---

When faced with complex problems, people naturally gravitate toward one of two approaches.
The first is what we call the natural approach, and it's the one most people default to.
In this method, thinking flows from left to right.
You start at the beginning and try to work through to the end.
It's also bottom up, meaning you begin with the details you're most familiar with.
You don't necessarily know where you'll end up.
The outcomes are simply whatever emerges after all your analysis.
This approach tends to focus on gathering and organizing information, which often leads to what consultants
call boiling the ocean, trying to analyze everything without a clear focus.
It feels comfortable because you're always working within known territory, but it's less effective
since you constantly have to figure out where you're going as you go along.
In contrast, the effective approach used by far fewer people works in the opposite direction.
It's right to left.
You start by identifying the desired outcomes and then work backward to determine how to get there.
It's also top down.
You begin with the core problem or opportunity and break it down from there.
In this method, outcomes are clearly planned from the beginning and rarely adjusted along the way.
The focus shifts from just collecting data to developing insight into the relationships between variables.
This leads to more strategic targeted thinking While it's more mentally demanding, you have to think
about where you're going before you even begin.
It's also far more powerful.
It allows conversations and analysis to revolve around the question, what do we need to do to achieve
our desired outcome?
Rather than aimlessly hoping that digging through data will eventually reveal something useful?
The methodology will be learning combines the strengths of both right to left and top down thinking.
We call it the unity thought process because it brings together the most effective elements of structured
thinking.
It's right to left because everything starts with the business outcomes we want to achieve.
Outcomes are the destination and by starting there, we ensure all our analysis and recommendations
remain tied to those results.
It's also top down because the real value in business problem solving comes not from organizing massive
amounts of data, but from developing insight, understanding how things fit together and what drives
success.
This approach is a cornerstone of how the world's top consulting firms operate.
McKinsey, for example, doesn't begin client meetings by asking what data do you have?
They begin by asking, what are you trying to achieve and what does success look like?
That's the power of structured thinking, beginning with the end in mind and focusing every step of
the process on delivering value.

--- What Is SIP? A Framework for Clear Thinking and Communication ---

Now let's dive into the core methodology that will transform your thinking and communication.
SIP.
SIP stands for situation, implication and Proposal.
This simple three part structure is the foundation of clear thinking and powerful communication.
Doctor Hossein Arsham, a renowned decision scientist, once said, as a general rule for thinking,
if you cannot describe in writing to be understood by someone else about your decision problem and what
you are doing as a process about it, then you do not know what you are doing.
This quote perfectly captures why SIP is so powerful.
It forces you to clarify your thinking before you communicate.
So how does SIP work?
First, you establish the situation.
This is what everything is about, including the current state, context and relevant facts.
Then comes the implication why this matters highlighting the consequences, risks or opportunities.
Finally, you end with a proposal a clear, specific recommendation for what action should be taken.
A proposal is the heart of collaborative communication, but without the grounding of a well-articulated
situation and implication, even the strongest ideas can fall flat.
People won't buy in if they don't know why they should care or what's at stake.
CP is essentially structured storytelling.
It's the framework that helps you translate your thinking into something others can easily follow.
It brings discipline to how you get your thoughts onto paper, ensuring they are both logical and communicable.
The words you use in a story are just the vehicle for your thinking, but you can only choose the right
words after you've completed the thinking itself.
This is why people often feel like they're going in circles when drafting documents.
They're trying to write before their ideas are fully formed.
The power of a well written ecip lies in three key factors the logical presentation of ideas that enable
clarity and comprehension.
The airtight logic of the thinking itself, and the way perception is managed through simple, specific
and clear language.
Let me show you how Scip works with a real business example.
Build production currently runs 90 build cycles per month, scheduled around system constraints and
contractual obligations.
The number of accounts distributed fluctuates by up to 50,000 per day and payment timing varies widely
anywhere from 15 to 29 days.
This inconsistency in volume creates uneven workflows across both the front and back office, leading
to service level dips during peak periods and requiring schedule buffers to manage unpredictability.
As a result, staffing costs increased by 10%, which amounts to about $4 million per year.
On top of that, because 85% of all payments come in after 16 days.
The business is incurring an additional $6 million per year in capital costs due to delayed cash flow.
The proposed solution is to smooth out bill volumes across the calendar month, which would stabilize
workflows, reduce staffing and service related costs, and enhance customer satisfaction.
Additionally, enforcing a consistent 15 day payment period would significantly improve cash flow by
accelerating collections.
Notice how this SIP story immediately clarifies the problem, quantifies its impact, and lays out targeted,
actionable steps.
The audience quickly understands what's going on, why it matters, and what needs to be done about
it.
That's the power of structured thinking and communication.

--- How SIP Enables Better Thinking and SIP Across Business Contexts ---

SIP doesn't just improve communication, it actually sharpens your thinking.
Here's why.
When you take the time to clearly articulate the situation, you're forced to gather and organize all
the relevant facts.
This often uncovers gaps in your understanding or unspoken assumptions you didn't realize you were making.
When you move on to the implication, you have to think through the consequences.
Connecting the dots between what's happening now and how it affects your goals.
This is where insight emerges.
You start to grasp not just what's going on, but why it matters.
Finally, when you craft the proposal, you shift from pure analysis to action.
You're required to think through practical solutions, weigh feasibility, account for resource constraints,
and envision likely outcomes.
That transition from diagnosis to prescription is what makes thinking powerful.
What makes SIP especially valuable is how naturally it mirrors the executive decision making process.
Senior leaders routinely ask themselves, what's the situation?
So what?
Why does this matter?
And now what?
What do we do about it?
SIP answers these questions directly in the very order they tend to think through them.
In strategic planning, SIP helps synthesize market trends, the competitive landscape, and internal
capabilities to uncover strategic risks and opportunities that may impact long term goals.
It leads to thoughtful proposals around initiatives, resource planning and execution.
Timelines in day to day operational problem solving.
SIP lets you examine process performance, quality metrics or customer complaints, understand their
impact on cost efficiency and satisfaction, and propose targeted improvements or system upgrades.
And in investment decision making, SIP frames the opportunity within the market context and financial
position spells out the risks and returns, and culminates in a clear investment recommendation with
funding strategies and performance metrics.

--- The Thought Process Behind McKinsey Presentations ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Analyze Your Audience’s Knowledge Level ---

Have you ever sat in an audience too embarrassed to admit you have no clue what the speaker is talking
about?
Or the opposite, which makes it painfully difficult to stay focused when the speaker is covering the
very basic concept you learned ages ago.
This happens often when speakers don't really consider the fundamental question about their audiences
what do they know and what do they not know about the topic?
If your group knows very little about the topic, or if your topic is technical or an unfamiliar process,
you want to simplify the explanation to the lowest common denominator.
If your audience is unfamiliar with your topic related to something they do know and help them connect
the dots, avoid acronyms or terms the group may be unfamiliar with.
For example, you should have more data in your pocket to respond to the analytical and risk averse
CTO when he inevitably balks and try to work with, not against the cmo's arrogance.
Ask for his counsel on a key marketing point or two before the group meets, and he'll be less likely
to lash out during the presentation or sit there quietly plotting a coup, as is his wont.
Take time and think through who will be in the room in your next presentation, and be sure you stay
in sync with everyone there and be prepared to juggle their level of knowledge for management consultants,
depending on the type of client.
The tone of the presentation and talk could be very different.
This will inform the way you build your presentation.
You need to develop an understanding of your audience, and they should start with asking at least three
main questions and then some detail along with those.
You should begin with who they are.
What does it look like to be in their shoes, what imagery appeals to them, and so on.
Build a picture of who they are.
And some people even create personas they refer to while building the presentation, as it helps directly
address your audience.
How much do they already know about your topic or subject?
How would you onboard people on the subject of your presentation, who know nothing without boring the
people who do?
How are you going to put yours into a story they'll relate to in their terms?
And what are their expectations for that matter?
What are your expectations?
What do you expect them to know or do at the end of the presentation?
But don't segment the audience in a cliched or generalized way?
Defining your audience too broadly can make you seem impersonal or unprepared.
It can cause your audience to feel like a statistic, or like they're being narrowly stereotyped, which
can be offensive.
The main idea is you need to define the audience in a way that's accurate and appropriate for the kind
of presentation you'll deliver.
We'll also try and figure out how many people are in the room?
Will it be 5 or 20 people?
In general, the larger the audience, the simpler the slides.
Even in many instances where slides have the potential to accelerate decision making, many speakers
make the mistake of designing ones that are far too densely packed with content.
Sometimes this happens because the speaker wants to show off how much they know and the vast amount
of work they've done.
Other times, speakers create dense slides that function as speaker notes.
Either reason is poor, though slides must be designed as simply as possible in service of the audience.
Notice that I added in service of the audience when seeking to persuade a highly technical, detail
oriented decision maker one on one, slightly dense slides are likely the best choice.
Another thing we may need to know beforehand is to know if you'll be presenting to a non-native English
speaking audience.
If so, please simplify your language.
Avoid using acronyms, idioms, casual expressions, or colloquialisms.
Pace yourself a little more than you would for an English speaking audience, and be sure your pronunciation
of certain words is clear.
Remember that with any audience, your best bet is to ask questions and do your research early on.
If you miss the mark on audience communication style, your credibility is at stake.

--- Dealing with Different Stakeholder Needs ---

In many presentations, you'll face the challenge of addressing multiple stakeholders who each bring
their own interests and concerns to the table.
The key to handling this effectively is preparation.
One powerful tool is the stakeholder matrix.
Start by listing out each key stakeholder and identifying what they care most about.
This could be strategic outcomes, financial metrics, operational efficiency, or employee wellbeing.
Then consider what objections or worries they're likely to raise.
Once you've mapped this out, you can proactively tailor your presentation to address each group's perspective.
Take an IT system implementation as an example.
The CEO will likely focus on strategic impact and return on investment, so you'll want to highlight
how the new system creates competitive advantage and drives long term financial gains.
The CFO naturally is concerned with budget and cash flow.
Here, a detailed cost benefit analysis and a clear payment schedule will be essential.
Meanwhile, the IT director will zero in on integration and technical support, so be ready to present
a solid architecture and a robust support plan for the operations manager.
The biggest concern is probably day to day disruption and the effort required to train staff.
Address this with a thoughtful change management approach.
Finally, HR will care about how the system affects people, job roles, morale and development.
That's where your communication plan and career development opportunities come into play.
By walking in each stakeholders shoes, you demonstrate not only empathy but strategic thinking.
And when everyone sees their concerns acknowledged and answered, you create alignment.
And that's what drives action.

--- Audience Analysis Checklist ---

Understanding your audience is the cornerstone of an impactful presentation.
Before you start planning.
Take the time to learn about the people you'll be speaking to.
Talk to the event organizer to clarify their expectations and if possible, engage directly with attendees
beforehand.
Knowing their level of knowledge, interests, and what they're hoping to gain will give you a strong
foundation to build upon.
Recognizing whether your goal is to persuade, inform, educate, motivate, or combine these approaches
will help you shape your message in a way that resonates.
It's also important to consider what your audience already knows, and whether there's a shared understanding
you can build on.
Familiarity with your topic can vary, so acknowledging any preconceived notions they might have will
allow you to address misconceptions or add clarity where needed.
Think about what you want your audience to learn from your presentation, and how you expect them to
apply that knowledge.
Being clear on your objectives will ensure your message is both purposeful and actionable.
Every presentation is a two way interaction, even if you're the one doing the talking.
Your audience is.
Expectations and perspectives will shape how your message is received.
The more thoughtfully you understand and connect with them, the more engaging and memorable your presentation
will be.

--- Combine the Best of Written and Oral Presentation Skills ---

First off, congratulations for making it this far in a training program.
We've already covered how to plan your management consulting presentation.
We're now going to dive into how exactly to draft your decks in an effective way.
The storyboard is important as it provides the big picture, but there are other things you have to
remember.
Of course, you need as error free documents as possible.
When working for a large firm, you're likely to have a lot of resources to ensure there are no errors.
But at smaller firms, living up to that zero error standard is more challenging due to resource constraints.
One way to help you avoid errors is the way you choose to write.
Your presentation doesn't need to be flair, pageantry, and creative language to cut through the clutter
and get noticed.
For management consultants, it's the exact opposite.
From the perspective of writing style, my recommendation is to use journalist language, and by that
I mean use plain but effective words.
The ultimate goal is simple make the reader read the story, build their perspective, and impact them.
If this isn't achieved, what was the point of finding it out and telling it?
It's one thing to say you should write simply and engagingly, and quite another to be able to do it
in a way that readers will keep reading and understand your point.
This skill is one that good management consultants develop, and one of the favorite tools to check
if the language I use is understandable is called the Hemingway app.
The tool analyzes languages based on four criteria the average number of words per sentence, lexical
density how easy or difficult a text is to read.
Hard words.
Average number of words in a sentence that contain more than three syllables, and fog index, the number
of years of education a reader theoretically required to understand a text.
For example, if you copy and paste the scripts from Steve Jobs's presentation into the Hemingway app,
jobs performs really well when it comes to using terms and language people can easily understand.
His words are simpler, his phrases are less abstract, and he uses fewer words per sentence.
When I help people with their presentations, the first question I ask is, with all these slides and
all this information and all the jokes and all the quotes from famous people, what are you actually
trying to do with the presentation?
The response is usually about their final objective and involves their ultimate goal of, say, increasing
sales to a certain level to sell the company.
I tell them to think smaller and simplify.
Then they give me a monthly sales goal.
This dance goes on until they're out of answers.
This exercise is crucial to understanding the fundamental principle behind influencing anyone to do
anything.
The answer in the simplest terms, you're trying to convey information effectively.
If you can get others to understand your information the way you do, all of your other goals and objectives
will be the happy byproduct.
If people understand the value of your product like you do, you'll sell more.
If your organization understands your proposal the way you do, they will vote in your favor.
The theory behind this process is something you can apply to all aspects of your life.
Here it is.
Success in life and business is dictated by your ability to convey your information to others, so they
understand it the way you do.
So use plain but effective words in your next presentation.

--- Steve Jobs, Bill Gates, and the “Plain English” Test ---

It's clear from the data that Steve Jobs consistently outperformed Bill gates when it came to using
clear and accessible language during their keynote presentations.
The comparison in table one highlights how Jobs's approach was notably more effective in connecting
with his audience.
Jobs's sentences were shorter and simpler, with an average of 10.5 words per sentence in 2007, compared
to Gates's 21.6 words per sentence.
Even in 2008, while both speakers used more words per sentence.
Jobs still maintained a clear lead with 13.79 words per sentence versus Gates's 18.23 words per sentence.
When it comes to lexical density, a measure of how complex the vocabulary is, Jobs's scores were consistently
lower, making his presentations easier to follow.
In jobs had a lexical density of.
Compared to Gates's.
This trend continued in, with jobs at and gates rising to.
Hard word usage and the fog index further demonstrate Jobs's advantage.
The fog index, which calculates the reading difficulty of a text was 5.5 for jobs in 2007, compared
to 10.7 for gates by 2008.
It increased slightly for both speakers, but jobs is Clarity still stood out, with a score of 6.79
against gates 9.37.
These figures are more than just numbers.
They reflect the deliberate choices jobs made to simplify his message.
While gates focused on technical explanations and jargon, jobs opted for conversational language,
often using personal anecdotes and rhetorical questions to engage the audience, as evident in table
two.
Jobs quotes are concise and enthusiastic, using relatable language that resonates with listeners.
Gates, on the other hand, tended to rely on detailed descriptions that could overwhelm his audience.
Ultimately, Jobs's ability to translate complex concepts into simple human language was a key factor
in his success as a communicator.
It's a powerful reminder that when it comes to public speaking, clarity and connection matter far more
than technical precision.

--- Crafting the Cover Page ---

The cover page should have a clear and rich title, telling the client exactly what they can expect
inside.
When creating a management consulting cover page, these are the basic elements you should include.
First, a company name.
This is a must.
It should be clearly displayed on the cover.
Traditionally in the largest font setting used in the presentation, the purpose is so the audience
have no doubt from the start as to which company the presentation is about.
Second, company logos and color scheme.
To make your presentation more professional, use high quality images of the company's logo combined
with the font type and color scheme used in the company marketing materials.
As with a book cover, the presentation cover should draw the attention of the reader immediately.
If the cover is unattractive, your presentation can fall victim to incorrect preconceived notions.
Third title and date state when it was written, so the audience can judge how timely the information
is.
A good title should make it clear the nature of the document, whether it be financial analysis, market
entry study, or a corporate transformation report.
But a great title should also tell audiences what you're going to achieve, such as how to get operational
excellence in financial services or how to enter the US market by penetrating product X, so we can
also apply the smart frame to create your presentations titles.
Smart.
Remember is specific, measurable, action oriented, relevant, and time bound.
McKinsey teaches its associates to evaluate their overall objectives, sometimes referred to as the
basic question, to be resolved using this framework.
Consequently, best practice presentation titles are smart.
As an example, consider again doubling Serbia's economic growth in the next decade.
It's specific in its reference to Serbia's economic growth.
It's measurable in its reference to doubling its action oriented attribute that comes for free when
you use a powerful verb.
Relevancy is audience dependent, but we can assume McKinsey created the presentation for Serbian officials
or another interested party, such as the world Bank.
And it's time bound in its reference to the next decade.
An important side note is the A and the R in the Smart framework are sometimes represented as accountable
and reasonable.
Accountability is often implied, but it can be made explicit by mentioning the party responsible for
achieving the goal in the title.
Similarly, reasonableness is implicit and in the eye of the beholder.
Because of this, fuzziness, action oriented and relevant make better checklist items.
So how could McKinsey have made its USPS title smart?
In some ways, they're a little stuck because the overall USPS project was called the USPS Future Business
Model.
However, if they had more flexibility, they could have used restoring the USPS to profitability by
2020, which was, as we will discover, the ultimate goal of the presentation.
Please do also note that the title and date should be featured less prominently than the company name,
and this can be achieved just by using a smaller font.
Everything you do needs to be focused on communicating as much as possible.
You want rich, compelling titles which say exactly what you want to say in the report.
For less is more.
With an executive summary, you'll summarize the contents of the presentation.
Sometimes this may be on the cover, but normally it'll be inside the presentation.
It's advisable to keep it simple, clean, and powerful.
Avoid too many graphics which may make the information difficult to discern, and five contact information.
You want to make sure the reader knows who to contact if they wish to know more.
You can do this by providing the name and contact information for one or more of the people in the team.
I suggest you put it at the front of the presentation, as it helps the audience to know who is presenting.

--- Crafting the Agenda Slide ---

I once worked for a consulting firm that had a fantastic policy for meetings.
The policy was this no agenda, no meeting.
That meant if you didn't have a written agenda ahead of the meeting, you didn't need to go.
I still follow this policy today.
I won't attend a meeting without a written agenda.
The agenda page answers the first question that pops up in the minds of your audience, which is what
is this presentation about?
When you have a clear agenda, you'll not only tell them what your presentation is about, but also
tell them how you'll cover the topics your audience needs.
This assurance right up front to stay with you for the rest of your presentation.
An agenda helps your audience to orient their thoughts at the opening.
It makes your message memorable.
When you don't have an agenda slide, you leave your audience clueless.
As humans, we always want to know our location and position.
It's wired to our survival instinct.
That's why big malls have maps, lifts have floor indicators, and large parks have guides.
A good agenda slide serves as a guidepost for your presentation.
After you finish every point in the agenda, repeat the agenda slide to show your audience what's covered
and what's left to be covered.
Use your agenda slide to help your audience from getting lost in your sea of thoughts.
And it's also a great place to summarize the presentation quickly.
So in a typical management consulting presentation, we'd start with the agenda and repeat the slide
at the start of each section to remind people where we are.
Let's take a look at an example.
The set of bullets that comprise the body of the agenda slide is the next element to notice.
Most McKinsey presentations I've seen three plus one agenda items.
Why not just say four?
The reason is the first three bullet points encompass the full narrative of the story.
The first bullet is the situational background referred to in the USPS agenda slide as recent context.
The second bullet is the complication referred to in the USPS agenda slide as base case.
Minimal management actions.
The third bullet is the recommended strategy to solve the complications referred to in the USPS presentation
as addressing the challenge.
Finally, in most McKinsey presentations, the plus one is labeled appendix.
In the case of the USPS presentation, as we will explore later, the engagement team elevated the appendix
to higher priority because of a burning recommendation they found that was outside the context of the
2020 strategy.
Of course, you likely already noticed the bullets in the McKinsey USPS agenda slide are extremely short
at most five words and there are no sub bullets.
While I have seen the McKinsey agenda slide violate the single line agenda item rule, I've yet to see
the no sub bullet rule violated.
The reason for this simplicity is the purpose of agenda slides is merely to guide the narrative flow,
not to impart information.
To that end, you'll rarely find footnotes or graphical adornments on a McKinsey agenda slide.
There's no rule requiring agenda items to appear as numbered or bulleted text.
If your presentation, like most strategic stories, is structured hierarchically, consider representing
the agenda using an organizational chart.
Similarly, if your presentation unfolds linearly, jazz it up by converting bulleted text to process
chevrons.
Finally, you can get even more creative with graphical agenda slides.
In McKinsey agenda slides, I've rarely seen parallel construction applied to bullet items, in which
each phrase or clause has the same grammatical structure.
As I am somewhat a stickler for grammar, this choice has always puzzled me.
When I design agenda slides, I always apply parallelism.
In particular, I start agenda bullets with action verbs in each section of a presentation.
I find it best to let my audience know in which mode it is.
One tip I can share with you to avoid rework is to create the agenda page when everything is finalized.
The other tip is to have an intro loop running while the audience are getting seated.
It's a must these days for auditorium or large stage shows, but it can also benefit smaller audiences,
especially if you'd like them to be primed for your information or questions later on.
All you need is a small set of slides that loop, hence the name, over and over until you're ready
to switch out to the main presentations.
And they may have different questions in or different pieces of advanced information.
Anything you feel is necessary to get the audience ready for your main presentation.
It will create some flow in your presentations.
Create what I like to call a repeating breadcrumb trail.
So basically you're creating a kind of roadmap so you know where you are in the presentation.
I've used this to great effect on a number of occasions, providing useful information for the attendees
and linking to content they might find useful after my presentation.
Depending on your software, the way this can be achieved varies, so you'll need to look up how to
do it in your application of choice.
But honestly, you shouldn't find it that difficult.

--- Agenda Slide Checklist ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Crafting the Executive Summary ---

Always tell junior consultants to start with the executive summary.
Executives have a limited amount of time, strong opinions, and want to know where the conversation
is headed.
Let them know in the first few pages what your recommendations are.
Remember, the answer comes first.
Executives are busy and impatient, so make sure your first page is perfect.
Sometimes you never get past the first page.
This also gives the client some control.
They can direct the conversation to the parts they most want to discuss.
A great framework to write an executive summary is why how laddering.
The premise is to ask why questions to elevate the customer's need at a higher level, and how questions
to narrow down to more specific tactics.
For this example, Accenture's executive summary consists of two parts.
The first is actually not an executive summary at all, but a set of three slides detailing the firm's
objective and approach, as shown in slides 4 to 6.
Although an objective can be embedded in the presentation, title and accompanying talk track, restatement
is useful on a slide when the material is to be shared as a report, and when the scope of the work
requires explanation, both of which hold in this case.
Similarly, the approach should reside in the appendix unless the target audience needs it to have sufficient
context for the story and confidence in the presenter.
Accenture's approach provides for both needs because it conveys comprehensiveness in methodology and
thoroughness of coverage.
So develop a clear, short overview of your key points and place it in a set of executive summary slides
at the front of the deck, and have the rest of your slides serve as an appendix.

--- Communicate Your Main Message in Under Two Lines ---

When you deliver a compelling presentation, your final product is a message that leaves your audience
fulfilled, informed, and often inspired to take action.
We're in the business of turning the complex into the simple.
We put things in buckets and the individual pages of the deck force, focus, format, narrative, and
sequence.
I'd argue that titles are the most important part of the slide.
The first thing people see consistent across all the pages.
Use the analogy.
If the PowerPoint is New York State, then the title is Manhattan.
However, the challenge is to be concise with the intent to communicate the main message within two
lines.
A good title or lede will concisely and effectively capture the audience's attention.
Explain why the page is important and show how it contributes to the storyline.
You should aim for your lead to be no more than two lines in a relatively large font.
Alternatively, you can separate the title using a larger font and the headline in a smaller font.
Whichever you choose, the format should be consistent throughout the deck.
There are three other points which you should pay specific attention to.
First, your audience will not be trying to read a lot of text and listen to you at the same time.
This is why your key messages need to be presented as short, clear headlines.
People can read far faster than you speak.
So if you put too much text on your slides, you run the risk that your audience will be too busy reading
the words instead of listening to you.
This means your spoken words will be out of sync as they lag behind the written ones.
With short headlines, the audience can quickly read them in just a few seconds, which then frees them
up to focus on what you're saying.
The rest of the time.
Second is aim to write the headlines in a natural voice and make them informative.
For example, our general investment portfolio grew by 50% per year from 2020 to 2022.
In contrast, simply writing group general investment portfolio is of limited use.
Here are some more examples.
We missed our Q4 forecast by 10%.
This is considered as a weak headline, as we don't deep dive into the implication of the statement.
It's better to rewrite this in Q4 numbers to be strong for us to pay out a cash bonus of $3 million
for executives.
Thirdly, the real challenge when you write a headline is writing what you want to say in the simplest
way possible, but keep it compelling.
Given this, don't be afraid to rewrite your first draft several times.
Brevity isn't easy to accomplish, but it is invaluable.
One way to focus in the mind is to consider a limited number of short term challenges, which will mobilize
the audience.
It's all too easy, and many people do it to write.
Difficult to understand long sentences, and it's even worse when they use lots of words in caps.
When you focus on challenges, you need to make sure the first point isn't the same as the second,
which in turn is not the same as the third, etc. again, I'll emphasise how important it is to speak
in very simple language.
As management consultants, your audiences are very likely to be sophisticated and well educated.
They want to understand your point in the easiest way possible.
They won't be impressed by you showing off your extensive vocabulary.
So if you write in a simple, jargon free style, it will almost always work best.
Here we're going to use Steve Jobs again as an example.
Jargon really creeps into his language.
His words are usually very conversational and simple, even for something formal.
And they're wordy for most of the companies.
Let's take a look at Apple's mission statement so we can learn how to use that jargon free, plain,
direct English to make a simple, clear, and impactful statement.
Apple ignited the personal computer revolution in the 1970s with the Apple two, and reinvented the
personal computer with the Macintosh.
Today, Apple continues to lead the industry in innovation with its award winning computers, OS X operating
system, and iLife and professional applications.
Apple is also spearheading the digital media revolution with its iPod portable music and video players
and iTunes online store, and has entered the mobile phone market with its revolutionary iPhone.
Again, don't use annoying jargon and pseudo intelligentsia at all to scare your audience.
Put together a storyboard that has some flow.
Make the slides clean and easy to understand with insightful graphics and strong design.
In the end, you want your clients saying, oh, that makes sense.
Let's do it!

--- Use Down-to-Earth Language ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Remember Why You Are Paid to Be There ---

Management consulting is not the right industry for you if you want widespread public acknowledgment
of your work.
The industry worries about results and focuses on the big picture what's happening that's affecting
the entire company.
That's what corporate strategy is about on a project.
If you find yourself getting into a lot of detail, you should stop for a moment to ask yourself if
that level of detail is really needed for the audience.
For example, does the CEO really want to understand how you calculated the benefits?
Saving $10 million for a $50 billion market cap company?
Consider the less is more principle.
It may be the case that the less you put in, the more insightful and effective your presentation will
be.
When you ever watch Steve Jobs presentations, you'll know how good he is at answering the one question
that matters most.
Your audience wants to be informed, educated and entertained, informed about your project, educated
on how it works, and entertained while learning about it.
Above all, people want to know the answer to one question why should I care?
Every time the audiences of Steve Jobs get this type of question, he'll tell the audience what this
means is x, y, z.
So he connects the dots for his listeners straight away.
Although he might leave the industry in the dark about future Apple releases, he never leaves his audience
guessing when the product is finally introduced.
Why should you care about Apple's new computer, MP3 player, phone or gadget?
As a management consultant, we also focus on the key message and we keep the focus on the big picture
and the insights the client is paying for those insights, not for you to talk through every small detail
that you've worked on.

--- Information Display Checklist – Presenting Data Effectively ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Headline Checklist ---

In this lecture, we'll go through my personal checklist to confirm if your titles are ready to present
to the C-level executives.
First standing alone.
It makes sense.
This seems obvious, but you'd be surprised how many bad PowerPoints there are out there.
If your cousin, who doesn't know anything about the topic were to read the slide title, would it make
sense?
Would it spark their interest?
Could they almost guess what else would be on the slide?
Also, have someone proofread your work before you send it to your senior manager or client.
When your someone reads the titles, they should make sense without extra explanation.
If they give you a confused look, redo and improve it.
Second, together in the presentation, it makes sense.
Think of PowerPoint slides like scenes in a movie.
When we lay out the movie storyboard, there's a reason for each scene.
The sequence matters, the angle matters, the sound matters, the transition matters.
If you're a consultant, you've had a partner or client read only the titles of the presentation.
Yeah, it's a bit dismissive, but it's super common.
Therefore, at a minimum, make sure the titles work together to tell a narrative.
It's also a smart way to kickstart the storyboard.
Three the title matches the page content.
Chances are that no matter how good the title, it only tells part of the story.
You need more logic, analysis, and proof of your assertions.
The subsequent bullet points, charts, tables, graphics, interview comments, and screenshots should
support your title.
Good practice is to turn on the voice recorder and go through your presentation as if the client was
in front of you.
If you find yourself phrasing things differently, skipping content, there has to be something you
could change for it's consistent.
Your presentation should look like the same person wrote it.
You'll typically divide up work among several consultants and cobble it together later.
It's problematic if the length, wording, syntax, or point of view of titles is inconsistent.
If your titles are two lines long, stick to that approach.
If you've got a period at the end of the title, do it for all of them.
If you're using the past tense, use the past tense.
Don't distract the reader with inconsistency.
Five.
It's direct and it says something.
Executives are busy, as we all are, so get to the point.
If selling, general and administration expense costs are up 15% while revenues are down 6%, say it.
Don't hedge.
When possible, drive to insight and back up with data.
Answer the question so what?
And six.
It has a point of view.
Clients and bosses didn't hire you because they want you to summarize stuff.
That's what Wikipedia is for.
They're hiring for your ability to do balanced research, think through the implications and distill
data down to its essence.
Each page needs to say something clearly to the audience or it needs to be taken out.
So make sure each page has a point.
Senior managers are trained to push consultants to answer the question so what?
For each page.

--- Headline Checklist Reference ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Maintain the Logical Flow ---

At times, using the right word is critical to the flow of the logic.
Which words you choose are vital.
A good case is when you want a client to realize the contrast, but don't want to have a break between
two ideas, you can use the word despite.
For example, you could say profits are up despite the fact that revenue was falling over the same period.
And by using despite, you force the client to see the contrast and the emphasis.
Here are some of my favorite words to present logic in an analysis.
If I want to express the percentage of a total, I usually use the words like share and accounts for
x percent.
If I want to rank different categories, I'll use ranks larger or smaller than or equal to.
If I want to explain a trend or changes over time, I'll use words like trend, change, grow, rise,
decline, or fluctuate.
To explain the frequency or items within certain ranges, I'll use x to y range concentration distribution
occurrence.
Sometimes I may also use related to increase or decrease with correlated to express relationship between
variable or correlations.
By using joining and descriptive words effectively, you can avoid having to put in lengthy content
to say the same thing.
Bluntness can be a great aid, but it doesn't work all the time.
If you stated bluntly that your client's revenue went up but your profits collapsed, this emotive language
could cause problems.
By keeping the language neutral and adding a joining word, the client can draw those conclusions themselves.
Getting tongue tied when speaking is common.
Try to find the right words.
When you're presenting can be frustrating, but let's consider why that happens and what you can do
to build more fluency into your speech.
When you're creating your headlines, remember to use plain words.
Doing so helps to avoid alienating your audience, especially when you're dealing with complex analysis.
This is where using plain, easy to understand language comes in.
By writing in plain language, your target audience can easily read, understand, and take action the
first time they read your content.
Writing plainly means writing to be understood.
To achieve this, you use familiar language which follows a logical progression.
The famous example of how to do this comes from a professor in the UK, who applied for a £170,000 grant
to research the cognitive measurement of consumer criteria for manufacturer parameter values in biscuit
texture.
But what does that actually mean?
It means he wanted to study what biscuit texture affect enjoyment of eating a biscuit?
But which of the two did you find easy to understand?
Using plain language can be misunderstood.
Though plain language doesn't mean dumbing down your content, it's content written for everybody,
including degree bearing individuals.
A study of how users with lower literacy skills read and navigate on the web, for example, found that
even users with graduate degrees completed tasks faster when language was simplified.
They also didn't have a negative reaction to the simplified content.
Ginny redish, the plain language and user experience specialist, said it's not a matter of dumbing
down, it's a matter of meeting people where they are and saving their time.
None of your audience will be offended when you say some time, no matter how smart they may be here.
I can't give you a magic formula for writing plainly, but I can provide you with a few techniques which
should enable you to simplify your content.
First, put the point up front.
Your audience don't want to have to hunt for the idea.
This can be harder, at least emotionally, to do.
When there is bad news.
There can be a tendency to bury it.
But remember, your audience is always looking for the bottom line, no matter where you try and hide
it.
So don't make them work harder for something they're going to find out anyway.
Secondly, use the active voice and personal pronouns.
Now, what is the active voice?
Well, it's when the subject performs an action.
Using a passive voice means the subject is being acted upon by the verb.
As the active voice is more direct, it tends to be better for clarity when you address your audience
as you, rather than a more general term like the customer or the user, then what you're saying becomes
more engaging.
Personal pronouns sound more human and again, are more direct and clearer.
For example, originally we'll say the board of directors and executive management identify opportunities
to achieve or sustain competitive advantage that can be realized through M&amp;A activity.
If we simplify that, we can say as global competition continues to intensify, we are demanding more
top line growth through M&amp;A.
Next, write short, simple sentences.
This sounds quick, but actually it means challenging every word you write.
And by doing so, getting rid of any excess common terms you can look to avoid using include it is,
there is or there are to begin sentences.
For example, an original sentence might be.
It is important to note that you need to be very careful when changing your distribution channels simplified.
Be careful when changing your distribution channels.
Also, avoid redundancies like absolutely essential, desirable benefits.
Reply back or evolve over time.
You can just be as clear saying essential benefits.
Reply and evolve and avoid jargon.
Bryan Garner, the author of Legal Writing in Plain English, explains this point well when he writes,
you achieve plain English when you use the simplest, most straightforward way of expressing an idea.
Since jargon is shorthand used by insiders, it can work well when you're talking to them.
So consider who audience is before involving jargon.
A conference of dentists isn't going to be confused by the term bruxism.
Put this term to most patients, though, and they won't have a clue.
So you'd say grinding your teeth to the patient and the dentist.
And it sets an understanding for both as to what you mean.
Therefore, avoid insider language whenever possible.
But if you can't find a better word, look to provide an explanation for users who might not know it
with this same idea.
Use everyday words, which means trying to use words that people would say normally when speaking in
everyday life.
So instead of saying utilize, just use, use instead of approximately, try about.

--- Using Active Voice – Examples ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Use Ellipses to Support Flow ---

Another very common technique in management consulting industries is to use ellipses to support the
flow.
Here are some classic scenarios to use ellipses in a presentation.
The first one is to use an ellipses to show an omission, or leaving out of a word or words in a quote.
For example, after acquisition, we need to develop a five step process for running them, which is
to help maximize the value and minimize the misery of reorgs.
The steps apply to all reorgs generally, and our survey data shows that companies using this process
are three times more likely than others to achieve their desired results.
We can use ellipses after running them and it's changed to.
After acquisition.
We need to develop a five step process for running them, and companies using this process are three
times more likely than others to achieve their desired results.
The next common scenario is to use ellipses to replace words at the end of the sentences, to show a
break off or a trailing off of a thought.
In this example, on page 13 and 14, the situation transitions to the next challenge.
Loss of postal monopoly.
The use of ellipses at the end of one slide title in the beginning of the next is a technique usually
reserved for instances where the second slide answers a question triggered by the first.
In this instance, however, as at the beginning of slide 14 simply indicates that an additional independent
factor is at play.
You can see this if you reverse the order of the titles as follows.
Lower cost competitors are gaining share from legacy postal operators in liberalized markets, as the
elimination of the postal monopoly is likely to exacerbate the structural decline of mail volumes,
since two factors could be reordered, I presume Accenture discusses the shrinking reserved area before
low cost competition because the former is the bigger issue.
Page 15 outlines the profitability struggles with which international posts are dealing in the face
of rising universal service obligation costs.
This slide is a nice story within a story, showing mitigation tactics and not curbing costs quickly
enough.
Postal services around the world are struggling with loss of relevance, loss of monopoly and rising
costs for the universal service obligation.
The answer to what should post do to address these challenges is the focus of the next act in Accenture's
strategic story.
So I think this is a great example to show you how we use ellipses in consulting presentations to support
your logic flow.

--- Include Only the Most Important Data (to Support Your Headline) ---

Under the headlines which contain our key messages, the body of content must always feature the most
important data to support the headline.
This is the sole purpose of the body to reinforce and add credibility to the headline.
To achieve this, you'll feature ideas, findings, data, information and knowledge from the research
period.
To display this information, you can use text, but where possible I like to use charts and other visualizations.
Sometimes photos and other types of pictures can help, but sometimes well executed bullet points also
work.
You can also show functional diagrams to demonstrate a system or how something works in this example
to prove unprecedented losses.
In this slide, McKinsey appropriately included a chart with ten years of financial history plus the
expected loss in the current year.
A column of text addressing key drivers for the loss supplements the chart for four consecutive years
of multi-billion dollar losses qualifies as unprecedented, though a stickler would want proof this
never happened in the long history of the USPS.
An extreme stickler would want to see the greater losses had not been experienced by other national
postal services either.
A word of caution about using photos and images is that what may look like an acceptable image or photo
in one culture may not work in another one.
One way to minimize this risk is to avoid controversial subjects.
For example, you're unlikely to see me using photos featuring world leaders or religious organizations
by conscious also of trying to use content which is timeless.
By doing this, you're creating a library of content which you can use again with the client later,
even years later.
And whenever I do a presentation, I always aim to do that in such a way that if I used it ten years
from now, it would still look relevant.

--- The Importance of Logical Rigor ---

Throughout this thinking process, logical rigor is essential.
Every conclusion must be supported by evidence, and every recommendation must logically follow from
your analysis.
This is what separates professional quality thinking from casual opinion.
At every step, you should ask yourself whether your conclusions are truly supported by the evidence,
whether alternative explanations have been explored, and whether your recommendations address the real
root causes.
Just as importantly, you need to identify your assumptions and test them.
This level of discipline is what enables consulting firms to charge premium fees.
Because clients aren't paying for vague opinions or gut feelings, they're paying for thinking that
is systematic, logical, and defensible.
As you develop your structured thinking skills, you need to watch out for the common traps that can
quietly undermine your logic.
Confirmation bias, for instance, leads you to seek only the data that proves your original belief
while ignoring anything that challenges it.
Correlation is often mistaken for causation.
Just because two things happen at the same time doesn't mean one causes the other, unless there's a
logical link between them.
Anchoring is another pitfall.
The first piece of information you see can unduly influence your judgment if you don't deliberately
consider other perspectives.
Availability bias causes you to rely on information that's easiest to recall, even if it's not representative.
And the sunk cost fallacy tempts you to continue down a flawed path just because you've already invested
in it.
Rather than asking what makes sense going forward, these are all natural cognitive shortcuts, but
structured thinking helps you spot them, avoid them, and replace them with sound logic.

--- Body Text – Explaining the Headline in Detail ---

With the bulk of the page.
It should be made up of content and exhibits which support a headlines.
Typically these take the form of graphs, tables, text maps or other exhibits that reflect what the
team has learned in this context.
There should be a focus on highlighting insights which add value.
It shouldn't be simply repackaging data which the client has provided, or copy and pasted findings
from other sources.
Top firms like McKinsey invest substantial amounts of time to select the right frameworks and verify
that the exhibits are error free.
The body must be easy to identify.
Bullets and dashes tend to be used a lot to convey detailed but crisp points.
They can also be used for what are called running headers.
For example, if we were talking about how to storyboard, how to do how to develop slides, then I'd
have little running headers which say how to do that.
These running headers are especially useful when you have multiple sections.
Points which would benefit from further details and explanations can be put in footnotes or appendices.
You do this not as a sign that the audience doesn't trust, but rather so that when someone refers to
your slides, when you're not there to help, they can quickly refer back to the sources.
They'll be able to follow your guidance.
It is, in essence, about being a team player.
Where possible, diagrams, charts and graphics should be simplified as much as possible.
Detail doesn't mean more competence or being more complex.
This is an area many consultants get confused about.
When I say you have to be more detailed, it doesn't mean that the detail you have is insufficient.
Rather, it means you have the wrong type of detail.
For example, if you have five images and five data points in your graph and you're told it means more
detail.
It doesn't simply mean to double the images and data points.
It quite possibly means you're being told the data you have isn't good enough.
The body of the presentation should be covered in three minutes or less.
Presentation design software makes it easy to include multiple design treatments on a single slide.
If you find yourself adding multiple instances of one treatment or mixing treatments on a single slide,
there's a good chance you're loading too much on it and should consider presenting the information in
two or more slides.
It takes no more, and possibly even less, time, to present the same content spread across multiple
slides as it does to review all of the content on one single one.
But your audience will thank you for this, because slide changes create energy by engaging the visual
cortex and signaling progress towards the end.
Perhaps the best test of whether you have too much content on a slide is if it takes you more than three
minutes to deliver what's on it.
Most of the business meetings I attend range from 30 minutes to 1 hour.
To ensure an on time ending, I recommend creating enough slides to fill 25 minutes of content for a
30 minute meeting and 50 minutes of content for an hour long meeting.
The extra time serves as a buffer for latecomers on the front end for summarizing actions and decisions
on the back end, and for handling questions.
Also, to my knowledge, no one has ever been fired for chronically ending meetings early.
Applying the three minute slide rule of thumb creates at most eight content rich slides for a half hour
meeting and 16 for a one hour meeting.

--- Avoid Lengthy, Dense Bullet Points ---

Now let's dive in to see how to use bullets in a management consulting presentation.
We've all sat through presentations where the presenter simply reads the text full of their slides.
You must have wondered, how can I avoid droning on and just focus on the key information my audience
needs?
One part of the answer is to create bullet points, which can be expanded upon later, when you use
bullet points on a presentation slide.
There are some key ideas you should keep in mind.
First, a bullet point is not a sentence.
Too many presenters put an entire sentence as a bullet point.
Doing so defeats the entire purpose of using them, i.e. only conveying the key point.
Next, reveal the key idea only as a bullet point is supposed to be a short summation of the key point.
It shouldn't reveal all you know about the idea.
In other words, it shouldn't leave you with nothing left to say.
You should be able to add to the bullet point when you speak during the presentation.
And thirdly, use a consistent style.
That means you should always start each bullet point with either a verb or a noun.
I tend to use a verb as it's more action oriented.
Use the same tense for each verb.
Most common is the present tense, with past being the next most common, and capitalize each bullet
point the same way.
Usually, the first letter of the first word is capitalized, and the rest of the words are in lowercase.
By using the six by six guideline, you'll avoid the slide looking cluttered, but still keep the key
arguments in the bullet points.
The guidelines state that each slide should aim to have no more than six bullet points.
In each of those bullet points, there should be no more than six words.
Consider this as a guideline opposed to a hard rule.
Doing so will help keep your slides clean and concise, but not impede you from getting your message
across when you need those extra words.
Also, know when not to use bullet points.
While bullet points are useful, increasingly audiences are actually turned off by slides that contain
nothing but slide after slide full of bullet points.
You should ensure to make use of visuals to convey your key points too.
And by this I mean graphs, diagrams, pictures, and videos.
You don't need to stick to just one of those.
You can use a combination for this example.
The opening bullet in Accenture's slide is much easier to read than the bullet.
And the reason, obviously, is length.
The initial bullet point spans two lines of text as compared to the closing bullets.
Four lines six if you include the sub bullet.
But brevity is not the only reason.
The first one is easy to read.
It's because it also leads with the lead, placing the most important information at the front of the
text.
Even though the other three bullets use boldface type to pull out keywords, none are as easy to comprehend
as the first as complete sentences.
All the bullets follow the best practice of applying parallel construction.
However, complete sentences are more suitable for reading, not presenting to an audience.
The way you present your bullet points matters.
If you get it right, it makes it easier for the audience to read.
If you invest time to make your slide easy to read, then it's easier for the audience to grasp your
points and act upon them.

--- Using Columns for Better Layout ---

I have seen presentations incorporate the strategy of using two columns to display their bullet points.
It can be very effective, and is a small sign that the consultants who made the slides really care
about conveying the message, and they aren't lazy.
Layout matters in terms of layout design.
We use two and three column layouts more frequently, and we don't really recommend more than four columns
or complex layouts.
For this example, McKinsey's slide is visually more interesting than Accenture's slide, despite the
blue box surrounding the latter's standard vertical list.
Accenture gains back the upper hand in this slide by converting into columns information that otherwise
could have been represented as a bland list, and this technique is called chunking.
In the hands of an expert designer, chunking is quite elegant, with blocks of text placed creatively
rather than simply in boring rows or columns.
While not reaching the level of artistic use of text one would find in a professionally designed advertisement.
McKinsey's slide adds additional visual variety through the use of chunking.
Reading the slide from outside in, there are four chunks of text, one each for volume, price, USA
obligation, and workforce costs laid out in a grid.
Next, notice that each chunk has its own.
So what volume is declining steadily?
Price is rising, but capped, and so on.
Finally, the innermost label summarizes the confluence of the four trends.
This is an effective and visually pleasing format to convey the impact of multiple forces on a business,
and anyone can design it with the layout.
You also need to make sure you're keeping the look of your slides consistent.
Points to aim to keep consistent are images, color schemes, background images, fonts, layout, framing,
and logo placement.
Each and every one of these should follow the same style guide, whether that be your clients or your
own firm's guide.
Still, try to keep the slides interesting.
You don't want them to be identical.
A great tip for ensuring consistency is to create one super slide.
Then save it as a template which can be used to repeat the layout.
By doing this, the audience members will pick up other elements of your presentation without having
to rethink each slide.

--- Slide Layout Design Principles ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Why Graphs Are Often Poorly Presented ---

Graphs tend to be poorly presented.
This is normally because of space issues and the challenge of fitting everything in.
This results in very small font sizes being used, which can look inconsistent with the style used elsewhere.
Ideally, you should follow the rule that the size of the text in the graph, as on every single slide,
must be the same.
This rule is used at BTG and other top firms, although it's not always stuck to when creating an exhibit
on a slide, you want to make sure it's built in such a way that the audience's eye is forced to focus
on the most important thing, and arrows are a great device for achieving this.
Make sure, though, that you don't end up highlighting too many points, as it will make it very hard
to read and the emphasis will be lost.
You want to train the eye once, not twice.
Data visualisation sounds fancy, but it basically means charts and graphs.
Consultants are good at quickly breaking down problems and telling stories with data.
Graphs can be succinct.
Yes, a picture tells a thousand words.
So let's review some good examples and some bad ones of charts.
First, let's take a look at this table.
The key message is to show strong growth in product B.
But what we see in this slide is a whole product line sales analysis with lots of historical data.
I'd say the messages are blurred in that data.
The next chart is a complex diagram.
If we're not an expert in the area will rarely interpret what's happening right now because there's
just too much information out there.
If I was in this situation, I'd either put this complex diagram on the appendix page, or I'd unpack
the key insights slowly.
I'd create three slides.
The first one introduces our high level analysis approach.
Then we move to the detailed process and finally extract our key findings in the last slide.
Now let's turn to another sample chart.
In the body we can see a whole financial calculation across different products compared with many competitors.
The main problem with this slide is the body.
Whereas only raw data and no analysis presented to support the conclusion.
So we've seen a few bad examples.
We've got to focus the audience's attention on the key message.
The body of a slide is extremely crucial because it helps explain the message.
Give another means for the audience to process the information and reinforce the message.
Aid to memory.
So let's see what we shouldn't do on this slide.
On a high level, the slide should never compete with the presenter because people are really hard to
read and listen to at the same time.
So presenter is the primary means of communication.
Less is more.
We should all call for simple slides because simplicity means clarity of thought.
And with this in mind, I'll go through how to use the most appropriate chart to display information
effectively in later chapters.

--- Why Do Management Consultants Love Data? ---

Management consultants are always on the prowl for good data.
After all, it's the stuff that client recommendations are made of.
So what exactly about the data do consultants love so much?
It's where the treasure is buried.
Like miners, consultants are paid to uncover something that's often difficult to find, where a forty-niner
might sift through tons of gravel looking for gold.
A consultant sifts through terabytes of data looking for insights.
On the surface, an analyst cleaning and filtering data doesn't look like a thing, like a miner sorting
or.
But if you look closer, they're both in the same laborious, messy, and frustrating business of rummaging
through a mound of crap to find something of value.
It's free of politics.
Data is objective.
It speaks louder than anecdotes and company folklore.
When two departments disagree, it's the only way to cut through the bureaucratic white noise and get
people on the same page.
The client is paying for expertise, critical thinking, and objectivity.
Staying close to the data is the safest route.
It's an ugly mess.
It's rarely organized.
It's scattered across the organization in different software programs filing cabinets, desktop computers,
and employees heads.
It's poorly maintained and unclean data, and it grows like a mushroom.
But it can be beautiful.
Data by itself is flat, boring, binary.
But sometimes it can be transformed from a random set of points into something beautiful.

--- Top Data Visualization Apps for Consultants ---

There are tools to make creating graphs and exhibits easier.
Consultant at McKinsey are using a custom made version of Think Sell, which is a plugin commonly used
by consultants.
Additionally, there are proprietary tools that facilitate faster work and alignment with corporate
standards.
For example, there are custom macro based work panels that allow the user to create standard forms
and shapes with just one click.
In addition to official toolbars, some consultants like to develop their own tools, which they sometimes
share with small numbers of colleagues.
The more successful tools are likely to become standard company toolbars later.
But the thing is that Think Sell is only dealing with corporate clients, and the price tag is quite
high.
I'd also recommend Tableau.
That's French for table.
It's the most user friendly, powerful and amazing desktop visualization tool for consultants.
Compared with Excel graphs, Tableau is more flexible as it has drag and drop functionality like pivot
tables and more graphical and unique ways to show data.
Another reason my consulting firm choose Tableau is the intuitive interface, which extremely reduces
learning curves, and it can also be easily published and shared with clients.
If you don't like to have additional costs to subscribe to another data visualization service, especially
for small businesses, you can still use Excel to create charts, as it's very easy to store and analyze
all the data from multiple sources, and it really works well with almost anybody.

--- How to Choose Between Text, Tables, and Graphics ---

In the body of a slide.
We usually have four types of format to present information graphics, tables, words, and combinations
of the above.
In this lecture, we're going to talk about how to choose between these elements.
In a management consulting world, we have a simple but powerful framework to help you make a smart
choice.
If you need to illustrate a reasonably simple relationship, use a table or a graphic, especially when
you have a chance to show numerical data.
If you need to explain a complex relationship, my recommendation is you use a table because it gives
a concise structure to navigate.
A mentor of mine always says that tables are underrated, and I agree completely.
If you're showing a bunch of numbers, why not just put them in a table?
If you have something other than a relationship, you could consider using words or a conceptual graphic.
All in all, the final selection depends on the message you want to deliver to your audience and make
them act on that.
Now let's have a quick recap.
Graphics.
If you want an audience to remember relative trends or picture the flow tables when you want them to
know, or be able to refer to specific numbers and methodology to calculate them and use words.
If you want the audience to understand specific logic, flow, and recommendations.

--- Using Graphics and Exhibits Effectively ---

In McKinsey presentations, we can find lots of different graphics or exhibits to help you understand
key messages even better.
But how can we find the right type of charts?
How can we better visualize our points?
In this lecture, we're going to answer these questions.
Compared with words, we all love graphics because they help us identify important points quickly.
We can open up a workout or health app, and on the front page, we rarely see thousands of words explaining
what you've achieved today and what your personal goal is.
Instead, there's a dashboard to help you figure out your weekly workout trends, the percentage of
your goal completion, and so on.
When a relationship is too complex for words or a chart can help us convey messages better, graphic
format should always be considered first.
If a graph isn't optimal, we'll switch to words or tables.
Now I'll tell you the examples of many types of charts and graphs, and explain how to pick the best
one for your data, depending on the message you want to convey.
Choosing a type of chart depends first and foremost on what kind of data you have and what you want
to express.
I find that charts and graphs are typically used to convey one of the following component item time
series, frequency distribution, or correlation.
The first one's component.
It shows the size of each part as a percentage of the total.
For example, in 2020, product C accounted for the largest share of total product sales or client share
of the market in 2017 was less than 10% of the industry, or two sources contributed almost half of
total corporate funds.
The second is what we call item.
an item compares to how things rang to the present, if they're the same more or less than others.
Some typical examples are.
In 2020, the sales of product C exceeded those of product B and G, or the client's market share ranks
fourth in North America, or turnover rates in four departments are about equal.
The next type of charts are time series.
To show how things change over time.
Is that trend increasing or decreasing?
Typical conclusions they draw are.
Sales have risen steadily since 2020, or return on investment has decreased sharply over the last four
years, or interest rates have fluctuated over the last four months.
Frequency distribution shows how many items fall into a series of progressive numerical ranges, such
as how many employees earn more than 50,000 USD.
So some examples.
In July, most sales were between 5000 and $10,000.
Most shipments are delivered within seven days, or the age distribution of employees differs sharply
from that of our competitor.
And the last main category is correlation.
We use this to show whether the relationship between two variables does or doesn't follow a pattern
you'd expect.
Typical examples are.
Employee performance in 2020 shows no relationship between stock price and industry confidence index.
CEO salary doesn't vary with the size of the company or size of market increases, with household income
in that target market.
And in the following lecture, I'll explain the main types of charts in greater detail.
So please do stay tuned.

--- Main Types of Charts ---

Deciding whether to use a graph or table when you need to convey data is a common question.
Both methods make the point much stronger than if you just try describing the data.
But if you choose the wrong format or execute poorly, you can ruin your presentation.
If your audience is simply confused, there's no point trying.
Appropriate use of graphs and tables is one way to enhance the message you're delivering.
But what are those graph types?
There are five basic types.
They're frequently used, and I'm sure you'll have seen them often.
Of course, there are more complex graphs which tend to have specific purposes, and I'll discuss those
later so you can decide if they're relevant to you.
A graph is really a graphical representation of one or more sets of data.
A set of related data is referred to as a data series.
For example, the revenue of product X each year for the last ten years would be one data series.
Anyway, here are five basic graph types you're most likely to need.
First area.
This graph shows the relationship of different parts to a whole over time.
An example would be to show the breakdown of the total organization revenue by product line over the
last 20 years.
This graph can show many data series, although ideally 4 to 6 at the same time.
Column.
This graph shows the differences in individual values vertically.
It can be used to show the differences between values in different time periods or other data groupings.
Examples include showing the total number of phone calls each month for the past year, or the number
of orders received by each order method like fax and phone, email, web, or walk in over the last
month.
This graph works best with fewer data series, ideally 1 to 3 line.
This graph shows values at different points in time.
It's usually best to have equal time intervals along the horizontal axis of the graph.
One example would be to show the trend in the number of customer service calls handled by four offices
each month over the last five years.
A line graph can display 4 to 6 different data series in a reasonably easy way to read.
Bar.
This graph shows the differences in individual values horizontally.
I wouldn't suggest using it when showing values in different time periods.
It works best when showing results of 1 or 2 data series, and one example would be to show the popularity
of the top eight answers to a survey question, and five is Pie.
This graph shows the proportions of each segment of a whole.
This graph only handles one data series.
An example would be to show the proportion of funding provided to a charity by each of its funding sources
over the last five years.
When you're deciding which type of graph to use, the key questions to consider are whether the data
is time sequenced and how many data series you want to show.
When you select the right graph type, your message will be conveyed so much more clearly to your audience.

--- Other Useful Chart Types ---

There are other types of charts which are not commonly used in typical management consulting presentations,
but it is still worth going to the extra miles to learn a bit more.
So a heat map data is represented by colors in a two dimensional representation.
A heat map can be a simple way to provide an immediate visual summary of information, but it can be
far more elaborate and involve complex data sets.
Heat maps can be displayed in many ways, although almost all of them use color to communicate relationships
between data values.
These data sets tend to be much harder to understand if they're presented numerically in a spreadsheet
than in a heat map.
A popular example of heat maps are those used during a presidential election in the United States.
They appear during television news programs and focus on geography, often the entire country.
And then they color it red and blue, according to which states are voted for which candidate.
Waterfall.
That sounds great, doesn't it?
This is a form of data visualization that helps to understand cumulative effect of sequentially introduced
positive or negative values.
Other names for waterfall chart are a flying bricks chart or a Mario chart, the latter in reference
to that video game because it appears to have a suspension of columns in mid-air.
In finance, this type of chart is also referred to as a bridge.
McKinsey and company make waterfall charts popular in their presentations to clients, because they
believe they're a powerful way to visualize the cumulative effect of sequential impacts.
Though it looks like a column chart, the chart in this McKinsey slide is actually a waterfall chart
used to show the cumulative effect of expected volume and price changes of USPS revenue.
To get from 68.1 billion in 2009 to 69.3 billion in 2020, the USPS faces a decrease of 11.8 billion
from volume decline and 3.8 billion from mix shift decreases that are offset by an increase of 16.8
billion from a price increase.
Though McKinsey didn't do so, I prefer positive changes and negative changes to be shown in different
colors for easy interpretation.
Waterfall charts should only be used to explain changes from one level or balance to another, the same
way as this McKinsey example.
Most presentation gurus would argue, and I agree, that the way Accenture used the.
The waterfall on the right side of the slide is incorrect.
The Accenture chart should be converted to a standard bar chart, with the bar for the total removed,
and added back as an annotation.
You'll likely need to purchase a third party plugin to design waterfall charts, as most presentation
design software doesn't yet include native capability.
Next is a Gantt chart.
Gantt charts are one of the oldest surviving management tools.
They were invented back in 1910 by an American called Henry Gantt.
So there are over a century old, but it's still a critical tool which nobody has bettered.
They tend to be fairly intuitive, with dates across the top and task list down the side.
Dates can be split into weeks or months or even days, and the tasks can be as macro or micro as you
want.
The bars show how long each task will take, and there are three main uses for Gantt chart.
First, planning your project.
Who's going to do what?
How long it'll take to get it all done.
Doing this allows you to see how many people you'll need and how much money you'll need.
Second, explaining the project to other people.
A Gantt chart enables the reader to see how they fit in, and the knock on effect of if they don't complete
their work.
Even with no training, people can intuitively understand it.
And thirdly, monitoring a schedule.
This is done by colouring in the tasks that have been completed so far.
Next is a radar chart.
This is a graphical method of displaying multivariate data in the form of a two dimensional chart of
three or more quantitative variables represented on axes, starting from the same point.
The relative position and angle of the axes is typically uninformative.
Now, the radar chart is also known as a web chart or a spider chart.
A star chart a star plot, a cobweb chart, irregular polygon, polar chart, or kiviat diagram.
It's equivalent to a parallel coordinates plot in polar coordinates.
The radar chart is a chart and or plot that consists of a sequence of equiangular spokes called radii,
with each spoke representing one of the variables.
The data length of a spoke is proportional to the magnitude of the variable for the data point, relative
to the maximum magnitude of the variable across all data points.
A line is drawn connecting the data values for each spoke, which gives the plot a star like appearance
and the origin of one of the popular names for the plot.
The star plot can be used to answer the following questions.
Which observations are most similar and are there any outliers?
And then a bubble chart.
This is a type of chart that displays three dimensions of data.
Each entity, with its triplet of associated data, is plotted as a disk that expresses two of values
through the disks, xy location and the third through its size.
Bubble charts can facilitate the understanding of social, economic, medical, and other scientific
relationships.
They can also be considered a variation of the scatter plot, in which data points are replaced with
bubbles.
As a document for Microsoft Office explains, you can use a bubble chart instead of a scatter chart
if your data has three series that each contain a set of values.
The sizes of the bubbles are determined by the values in the third data series.
All right.
I think we've covered a lot of chart types there.
You've got a chance to use them as a management consultant.
But in this training series our focus is still to help you master the most fundamental but powerful
chart types pie bar, column line and dot charts.

--- Key Elements of a Chart ---

I'm making a graph though, you need to make sure you've included all of the following.
First, and perhaps most obviously we have colors.
As we've said, colors are harder than they might seem.
What you should do, though, is to make sure you set the background color and the color of each data
series, so there's enough contrast that can be clearly seen by the audience.
Consistency is important.
You need to make sure the overall color scheme you're using doesn't look out of place.
For example, make sure the colors fit in with your company's branding.
This means whether you're going to use 2D or 3D graphs, I'd heavily suggest going with 2D axes.
Almost every graph type except the pie chart has two axes.
On one axis is data values, and the other is used for time or how data separated.
You must make sure the axes are set up suitably for the data which is being presented.
Equally important is labelling the axis, i.e. indicating the values in a manner which is big enough
to be clearly read.
If you fail to make the axes clear, your graph may be misunderstood and thus fail in its purpose.
Data labels.
When you need to more clearly indicate the data value in a graph, you can use a data label.
This is a text box that contains the actual data value, and it should be placed close to the graphical
representation of the data point, whether it's at the end of a bar or column above a data point on
a line graph, or inside the pie section in a pie chart, make sure the text is big enough to be read
clearly, and the text color has enough contrast with the color underneath it.
As we know by now, McKinsey slides tend to be busier than what we're used to create, but their charts
are really simple and easy to understand.
In this example, you can see the charts are clearly labeled and the trend lines are obvious.
Revenue is flat, costs are going up, cumulative losses are going up.
It's very unequivocal.
It's very direct.
Now graph title.
My recommendation for using a so what to title the overall presentation.
And each slide can apply to many different types of titles.
But graph titles aren't one of them.
Graph titles should merely explain the function of the graph because it's the visual representation
that matters.
The best practice for titling graphs is to describe the y axis, followed by the x axis in a trend chart,
y over time, or y versus x is sufficient in other types of charts.
Good choices include dependence of y on x, relationship between y and x, and comparison of y across
x.
So, given this best practice, why didn't McKinsey label the trend chart in figure X?
Net profit loss over time?
While the presentation designer certainly could have done, minimalism trumps all else in slide design.
Since it's obvious the x axis is time, dropping over time is a reasonable choice, and legends these
come into play when you have more than one data series on a graph.
The easy way to deal with it is to add text labels which indicate each series, instead of using a legend
on the graph.
Research has shown that a legend distracts the audience as it forces them to split their attention between
the graph and the legend itself, and this splitting of attention reduces their understanding of the
graph overall.
The way to avoid this is by putting any explanatory text in the graph using text boxes.
Credibility through data and documentations.
Consultants are known for their left brain data crunching rigor, and McKinsey is no different.
Unless it's a straight marketing or organizational design piece, there are numbers on the majority
of pages.
They will create data through surveys or other means if necessary.
Clear footnotes indicate whether data comes from even if it coyly says McKinsey research.
Overall, you should remove all unnecessary elements from graphs to keep your chart simple.
Compare the net profit loss chart McKinsey actually designed to the one in this slide.
The actual version is much more professional because it removes all the unnecessary elements.
While there is no strict definition of necessary, consider the elements that McKinsey removed in order
to apply the design principles of minimalism, clarity, and low audience cognitive load.
By removing unnecessary elements, the designer created white space for information rich annotations.
First, the y axis label disappears, as is explained in the title.
Second, the vertical y axis and its horizontal gridlines are removed as profit values are provided
above and below the columns.
Third, the x axis label is deleted as it's clear the values are years, a rare exception to the best
practice of labeling each axis with its units of measurement.
The horizontal x axis itself remains because there are positive and negative profit values, and it's
useful to know where zero is.
However, the x axis tick marks are removed since white space is sufficient to separate each bar.
Fourth, the legend vanishes as there is only one category of values.

--- Five Fundamental Comparison Types for Charts ---

Here's how we choose from different types of charts.
On the y axis, we list different types of relationship, and on the x axis we put different charts
into either descriptive or explanatory categories.
So first let's look at some descriptive graphics.
The most frequently used one is a column or line chart.
When we want to represent time series we usually use that.
And in Western culture we read time as moving from left to right.
Now, when there are fewer than six time points.
So time periods or data is accumulated in discrete occurrences like periods of production.
Our preference is to use a column or a stacked column chart.
But if there are more than six or so data points or periods, we use a line chart or an area chart.
And moreover, if data is continuous or cumulative, such as number of stores or stock price by days,
then a line chart or an area chart is also quite applicable.
A line chart really fits in a situation where we need to emphasize the overall trend.
Now let's turn to a bar chart or a stacked column chart.
We use these for comparisons or comparisons of parts of a whole.
From the perspective of a business.
We use a bar chart for market research, survey responses or competitor comparisons, and a stacked
column chart for cost structures or regional market share comparisons and changes in mix across time.
Sometimes we apply a range of mapping techniques to represent complex spatial and temporal comparisons.
For example, we use territory maps for market attractiveness and competitor penetration, and a process
or time map for efficiency measures, timelines and process flows.
The other category is explanatory graphics.
For regression and causal relationships, we choose an XY scatter chart for point regressions and use
a bubble chart for regressions, where a third dimension is required.

--- Overview – The Five Basic Comparison Types ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Component Comparison (Parts of a Whole) ---

Let's move to the first type of comparison, component comparison.
And I think pie chart is the first chart type that will immediately pop into your mind.
A pie chart is a circular statistical graphic which is divided into slices to illustrate numerical proportion.
In a pie chart, the arc length of each slice is proportional to the quantity it represents.
Pie charts are very widely used in the business world and mass media, but they've been criticized and
many consultants recommend avoiding them, pointing out that research has shown it's difficult to compare
different sections of a given pie chart, or to compare data across different pie charts.
Pie charts can be replaced in most cases by other plots, such as a bar chart, box plot, or dot plot.
Lots of partners I met never even use pie charts for analysis, and there are many reasons I'll start
with colors.
Pie charts involve too much meaningless color.
When you use Excel to graph your data, it automatically assigns a lot of colors, which is convenient,
but it shouldn't be the end of the design process.
The colors probably don't represent anything and are simply acting as categorical differentiators.
This isn't such a bad idea, but you tend to get an optical illusion in which the darker colored slices
will appear larger than the same slice of a lighter color, and with the latter in mind.
I do suggest you always make an explicit choice about the colors you use.
By doing so, you can strategically draw the audience's eye to the points you want covered.
So if you've decided that a pie chart is what you need to use, at least consider making the slices
the same color and highlight only the one or perhaps two slices you want to draw attention to.
The main problem with pie charts is that our eyes just aren't that great at attributing quantitative
value to two dimensional spaces.
What I mean is that pie charts are hard for people to read.
For example, when segments are close in size, which isn't uncommon, it's difficult to see which is
bigger.
And even when the slices aren't the same size, you normally only left with the information about which
is bigger, but no idea how much bigger.
Adding data labels can help this, but they take up a lot of space on pie charts, especially with smaller
slices.
So perhaps I've convinced you to avoid using them.
It wouldn't be fair to just leave you like that, though.
If you're going to move on from pie charts, I'd normally suggest replacing them with a horizontal bar
chart.
Within that bar chart, organize the data from greatest to least.
Y bar charts.
Simply our eyes compare the endpoints.
Thanks to having a common baseline, it's very easy and quick to assess relative size.
In turn, this makes it easy to see not only which segment is the largest, but also actually how much
larger it is than other data points.
So we're very cautious about choosing pie charts in the firm I used to work for, we only used pie charts
to compare no more than six components, and if it was more than six, we'd use something else.
Sometimes we also use the others category to reduce the number of components overall.
Meanwhile, we also position the most important component against the 12:00 line or rank components
by decreasing size clockwise.
Sometimes we also emphasize the most important part with color, because the key part of our job is
to help clients prioritize, so we'd never blur our key message.
Pie charts sometimes use legends to show items on the chart, and they are usually placed at the top
right area of charts or slides.
Another thing we need to pay attention to is that when the unit of measurements percentage, the actual
total value is often provided like this, which could give your audience a general impression of total
number.
In this example, the headline is company A has the smallest share of industry sales.
Our focus is company A, so we put it against 12:00 and highlighted in black.
So it catches the attention.
And we rank other components by sales volume and put them clockwise.
By now our insight is also much easier to generate.
And that is that company A has the smallest share of market sales.
We can also slice out the part we're about to emphasize like this to help audience find the focus.
But lots of slices can sometimes mess up your chart.
And my recommendation is no more than five.
Let's take a look at an example.
The stacked column chart on the left side of McKinsey's slide does a nice job of showing the -12% reduction
in work hours, but the nature of the chart makes it very difficult to answer the naturally triggered
next story question.
How much of the reduction came from each of the three sources?
And that, of course, is where the pie chart on the right comes in.
Now, McKinsey's pie chart is easy to read for five reasons.
First, every slice uses the same color shade as the category in the left graph.
Every slice is clearly labelled, as it avoids legends in pie charts because they require too much work
to interpret.
There aren't many slices because pie charts work best for 2 to 5 categories.
The slices are paced in clockwise descending order, and every slice contains the actual number and
percent contribution of reduced hours, making interpretation instantaneous.
Sometimes we also consider treemaps as an alternative to pie charts.
Now, treemaps are an elegant alternative to pie charts and mitigate the perception problem by sizing
rectangular tiles in proportion to their data values.
This BCG slide is a nice or busy application of a treemap, though they're decades old.
Treemaps are still part of most presentation design software packages.
To create one, you may need an add in, a standalone software tool, or a lot of patience to do it
yourself by calculating rectangle sizes.
Let's move to another example.
So bar of pie charts.
The main message of this slide is 10% of the employees under 30 years old have post-graduate postgraduate
degrees.
If you have several parts of something whole, you can demonstrate each item in one pie chart, but
when several parts, each amount to less than 10% of the pie becomes hard to distinguish the slices.
In this example, the majority of employees are over 30 years old, but they are not our analysis target.
Our real target is the people under 30.
So we use a pie chart to represent the percentage for different groups and highlight our under 30 year
old focus group.
Then we're going to drill down their college degrees into post-graduate college graduate and high school
graduate.
So we place a stacked column chart on the right hand side that we use in conjunction with the pie chart
here, but it isn't my recommendation.
I usually avoid too many pie charts in the same slide like this.
Another poor combination is comparing components by using pie charts instead of stacked column charts.
And in this example we can see the headline is our label distribution is different from theirs.
We can clearly see we cannot establish sensible comparisons between two pie charts, but on the right,
when we easily use two columns to represent different components and add a few lines to compare each
component.

--- Item Comparison (Comparing Categories) ---

For item comparison management consultants usually use bar charts because bar charts are the most simple
and effective ways to compare standardized and quantitative values.
A bar chart or bar graph is a chart that presents categorical data with rectangular bars with heights
or lengths proportional to the values they represent.
The bars can be plotted vertically or horizontally, and a vertical bar chart, sometimes called a line
graph.
A bar graph shows comparisons among discrete categories.
One axis of the chart shows the specific categories being compared, and the other represents a measured
value.
Some bar graphs present bars clustered in groups of more than one, showing the values of more than
one measured variable.
When a bar charts present vertically, it becomes a column chart.
So let's go through some examples.
We just want to compare different competitors here.
The key message of this one is clients return on sales ranks fourth.
First, what we should do is decide which dimension to rank different items, percentages or absolute
numbers.
As we can see in this one, we use percentages to measure and rank different competitors.
And please note, we also round out the figures to bring total clarity to compare each percentage as
we did in the pie chart.
We also use color to emphasize our target in this analysis.
And in this example, we highlight our client in gray when the value is too big to show on the chart.
Breaks like this are used, telling readers that the actual value is much bigger than what's been shown
here.
In some bad data visualizations.
They don't always extend bar charts to zero, because that would confuse our readers a lot or force
them to different conclusions.
Because if you don't start with zero, the comparison will look more ridiculous.
In terms of variations, there are six main variations of bar chart forms a deviation bar chart which
distinguishes profit winners from losers.
A sliding bar chart, which shows a different mix of two components, could be percentage of imports
versus percentage of exports.
A range bar chart, which is showing the spread between low and high amounts like a range of discounts.
A paired bar chart which usually shows the correlation between two items like market growth versus market
share.
A grouped bar chart compares various aspects of the same item, such as with and without a discount,
and the final one is a subdivided bar chart which shows components that make up the total.
Okay, so let's have a look at some examples to get a better understanding on these variations.
So the first one is a typical subdivided bar chart or stacked chart a twisted version of bar charts
where the breakdown of each bar is shown.
And in this example we'll use it to show the proposition of profit sharing in each industry, we start
with the largest industry and move to the smallest.
And meanwhile we also highlight the key analysis target, which is profit sharing like bar or column
charts, chart.
Stacked charts also use legends to nicely title items on the chart.
Legends are usually placed at the top right area of the chart, and in many cases we usually use connectors
like this to better visualize group separation.
We can see the key message is really obvious without any disruption of irrelevant information or unnecessary
formats, and we conclude the key message as although total fringe benefits vary, profit sharing is
the largest in all industries.
So let's move on and look at another example.
In this one, the headline is product mix varies by area.
We convert the absolute number into percentage to represent product mix in each industry.
Because we think stacked bar or column 100% chart is an effective way to compare percentages across
multiple sums.
We use different colors to highlight different types of product types, and by now we can easily find
out the key product and mix in each industry.
Our final example is to use bar charts to compare our analysis target with competitors and the industry
average.
In the same chart, the headline is our company is above average in both categories of sales.
What we do here is quite straightforward.
We put the data of our competitors in the bar chart, and then we add a simple dotted line to represent
industry average.
So we immediately have a clear insight.
Our company is above average in both categories of sales, though there are a few competitors outranking
us in each category.

--- Time Series Comparison (Trends Over Time) ---

The Time series is a collection of observations of well defined data items obtained through repeated
measurements over time.
For example, measuring the value of retail sales each month of the year would comprise a time series.
This is because sales revenue is well defined and consistently measured at equally spaced intervals.
Data collected irregularly or only once is not a time series.
The first type of chart to represent a time series is a column chart, which is a type of bar chart
that uses horizontal bars with proportional lengths to compare data among categories.
The x axis represents the different categories, and the y axis has a scale and indicates units of measurement.
Column charts are useful when comparing different categories of data, showing trends or change over
time.
In this example, we'd like to explain that the client's return on sales ranks fourth.
We're using a column chart to show the sales trend in the last seven years.
If you want to make additional emphasis, you can highlight the column in color.
Please remember, column chart is only feasible for small sets of data points.
If it's a large set, I'd use a line chart to do the time series comparison.
Like bar charts, column charts also have many variations.
There are there a deviation column charts.
Range column charts.
Grouped column charts.
Subdivided column charts and step column charts.
Let's start with the first one deviation column chart.
This usually distinguishes the profits making years from the losing ones, and the range column chart
is used to show the spread between low and high amounts, like barometric performance of the stock market.
The grouped column chart, with columns either butting against one another or overlapping, compares
two items at each point in time and shows how relationships change over time.
One example I can think of is that dollars with inflation and discounted for inflation.
The subdivided column chart shows how the components contributing to the total vary over time, such
as salary plus fringe benefits adding to total compensation.
And the last one is the step column chart.
Leaving no space between columns, and is best to show data that changes abruptly at irregular intervals,
such as personnel ceilings or capacity.
The second type of chart to represent time series is the line chart, which is a type of chart used
to visualize the value of something over time.
For example, a finance department might plot the change in the amount of cash the company has on hand
over time.
The line graph consists of a horizontal x axis and a vertical y axis, and most line graphs only deal
with positive number values, so these axes typically intersect near the bottom of the y axis and the
left end of the x axis.
The point at which the axes intersect is always zero zero.
Each axis is labeled with a data type.
For example, the x axis could be days, weeks, quarters, or years, while the y axis shows revenue
in dollars.
Data points are plotted and connected by line in a dot to dot fashion.
The x axis is also called the independent axis because its values don't depend on anything.
For example, time is always placed on the x axis since it continues to move forward regardless of anything
else.
The y axis is also called the dependent axis because its values depend on those of the x axis.
At this time, the company had this much money.
The result is that the line of the graph always progresses in a horizontal fashion, and each x value
only has one y value, as the company can't have two amounts of money at the same time.
More than one line may be plotted in the same axis as a form of comparison.
For example, you'd create a line graph comparing the amount of money held by each office branch, with
a separate line for each office.
In this case, each line would have a different color identified in a legend.
The line graph is a powerful visual tool for marketing, finance, and other areas.
It is also useful in laboratory research, whether monitoring or any other function involving a correlation
between two numerical values.
If two or more lines are on the chart, it can be used as a comparison between them.
If you have a larger set of time series data, a line chart is preferable where there's a clear trend
and a scatter chart works better to highlight variability.
In keeping with one of the recurring themes in this use every opportunity to highlight the key message
with simplification and clarification.
Starting with line graphs, leave off symbols unless they provide information that's critical to the
story.
If you have multiple time series, differentiate lines with color variation as a first choice and with
line style as a second choice.
Shift to scatter plots.
Choose symbols that are easy to distinguish, such as circles, squares, triangles, plus signs and
text in large symbols, and remove the fill.
Avoiding certain graph types that are inherently challenging to interpret.
The area chart.
For example, the lying cousin of the stacked column chart has the same limitation as its relative,
namely that one can perceive volatility in the total and in the component touching the x axis at the
expense of correctly interpreting the other components.
Line charts are the purest form of charting analysis which is available to us.
For example, using only the closing price, we can begin to see market behavior taking shape.
We can begin to see patterns and trends being revealed, and these insights can potentially be traded
for profit.
What is wonderful is that any market can be plotted using this charting technique.
For some markets, like mutual funds, it's the only charting method available to display the net asset
value.
Looking at line charts actually does allow you to quickly determine the trend.
If it's an uptrend, then the line will be drawn under successive higher lows, forming a trend line.
In contrast, a trend line drawn across successive lower highs depicts a downward trend.
The parallel trend lines can be done so it forms a channel.
With those lines in place, you'll be able to clearly define an uptrend or a downtrend.
You can use the channel as a guide for predicting short term trend changes, since the actions of the
price will follow the channel simply bouncing from top to bottom, then back again.
Of course, on some occasions the price will move outside the channel.
This doesn't mean a failure of the channel, as long as the channel contains the majority of the price
action.
If you find the price fluctuates too far from your existing channel, you'll need to consider scrapping
it and drawing a new one.
Line charts bring order to chaos.
With your channel in place, you can draw horizontal lines which depict areas of support and resistance
to the price.
It's important to remember that with line charts, the price doesn't always touch the line.
This means that deciding where to set the areas of support and resistance is arguably more art than
science.
Once the price breaks through the resistance line, the line itself tends to become the new area of
support and vice versa i.e. what was once support becomes resistance.
Lastly, line charts quickly reveal areas of congestion called triangles, and there are three types
of triangles ascending, descending, and symmetrical.
How the price fluctuates with the pattern determines the type of triangle.
One way to imagine this is to think of a coiled spring.
The price oscillates in a wide range, but gradually narrowing to an apex or point at that point is
the tip of the triangle, and this is where the price breaks out.
That tends to be manifested in either an explosive move up or down.
A hidden benefit of triangles is that they forecast price targets by measuring the length of the triangle
base and adding it to where the price breaks out of the triangle pattern.
It's surprising how often this short term target is actually reached, so remember that line charts
are a simple and quick way to quickly get a feel for a market's rhythm and direction through applying
trend lines, channels, and triangle patterns.
You might, just might be able to discover exciting moves in a market in terms of the things you need
to pay attention to when drawing a line chart, you should always avoid using too many lines in one
chart.
That will bring lots of readability issues and blur our key message.
If you do have lots of things to compare, I'd recommend you draw multiple line charts and compare fewer
trends.
Sometimes we can mix a column with a line chart, and in this example we can see placing a gray column
to emphasize our projected growth.
With the smooth line chart, we can easily find out our key message which is projected.
Growth appears unrealistic in light of performance over the past seven years.

--- Frequency Distribution Comparison (Spread of Data) ---

Frequency distributions of visual displays that organize and present frequency counts so the information
can be interpreted more easily.
Frequency distributions can show absolute frequencies or relative frequencies such as proportions or
percentages.
Histograms and bar charts are both visual displays of frequencies using cottons plotted on a graph.
The y axis or vertical axis generally represents the frequency count, while the x axis or horizontal
axis generally represents the variable being measured.
Let's see some examples.
So in this one the x axis is frequency of shipment and the y axis is numbers of orders.
From the chart we can easily generate our key insight.
The majority of shipments are received in 5 to 6 days.
We can use histograms with relatively few buckets, and try different levels of precision to help clients
extract certain patterns.
In this example, we have more data points in the previous one, so we use histograms to represent the
size of sales.
The histogram is a popular graphing tool.
It's used to summarize discrete or continuous data that's measured on an interval scale.
It's often used to illustrate the major features of distribution of the data in a convenient form.
A histogram divides up the range of possible values in a data set into classes or groups for each group.
A rectangle is constructed with a base length equal to the range of values in that specific group,
and an area proportional to the number of observations falling into that group.
This means the rectangles will be drawn of non-uniform height.
A histogram has an appearance similar to a vertical bar graph, but when the variables are continuous,
there are no gaps between the bars.
When the variables are discrete, however, gaps should be left between them.
In this example, we find clearly that most sales are between 30 and $50.
Let's move to another example.
Management consultants also usually use lines and columns for comparisons, a kind of twisted version
of column charts where one or several series of columns are represented by lines.
Normally, we place legends to indicate which variable is represented by which column or line on the
top right corner, and in this example, we use line charts to represent numbers of orders generated
by different age groups for competitors, and use columns to show hours.
So the comparisons are so obvious.
The age distribution of our customers differs sharply from that of our competitor.

--- Correlation Comparison (Relationship Between Variables) ---

When we need to represent the correlation between two related values, we'll usually use a scatter graph.
In my opinion, that's the most effective way to visualize two dimensional sets of data.
A scatter chart, also called scatter plot, uses horizontal and vertical axes to plot data points.
Scatter plots show how one variable affects another, meaning you can visualize relationships and trends
in data.
A scatter chart also has two value axes to show one set of numerical data along a horizontal axis,
and another set of numerical values along a vertical axis.
The chart displays points at the intersection of an x and y numerical value, combining these values
into a single data points.
These data points may be distributed evenly or unevenly across the horizontal axis, depending on the
data.
Let's take a look at a chart showing the correlation between discount and sales volume.
The position of each point on the horizontal and vertical axes is determined by discount and unit volume
sold correspondingly.
In this example, we can find there's no correlation between discount and sales.
Let's change the dimension in this chart.
The y axis is price.
The x axis is still volume sales.
Our expected pattern is when we lower the price, we will have higher sales.
In this example, we can find a clear correlation between sales and prices.
So our key insight is that there is a relationship between lower prices and increased volume sold.
Another example we have here is the relationship between education level and weekly wages.
If we put the data points correctly and find a clear correlation, we can see people with more education
receive higher salaries.
Lastly, another similar chart form is bubble chart, a very effective way to visualize three dimensional
sets of data.
A bubble chart is a variation of a scatter chart, in which the data points are replaced with bubbles,
and an additional dimension of the data is represented in the size of those bubbles.
Just like a scatter chart, a bubble chart doesn't use a category axis.
Both horizontal and vertical axes are value axes.
In addition to the x values and y values that are plotted in a scatter chart, a bubble chart plots
x values, y values, and z for size values.
When we use a bubble chart, legends here not only identify the third dimensions of data, but also
compactly grouped points scattered around different areas in the chart.
In this BCG presentation, they like to show the interrelationship between male volume growth and household
penetration, which is an outstanding example of a correlation chart.
The variable that appears to be the independent variable is on the x axis, and the variable that appears
to be the dependent variable is on the y axis.
Since interrelationship is present, the graph includes a trend line that does not extend beyond the
range of the actual measurements.
Note that trend charts are a special case of correlation charts revealing the relationship.
If there is one between a dependent variable and time.
The chart title.
Total male CAGR is a function of 2008.
Broadband penetration with the underlying is the honest way to refer to correlation.
Since interrelationship doesn't imply causation, that's worth repeating.
Correlation does not mean causation because any actual cause and effect must be validated through other
means.
Until that happens, acceptable language includes as a function of or points to or is related to.
The graph also includes the annotation R squared equals 0.57, and means that the linear model explains
57% of the variation in the data.
A rather high percentage which points to a strong interrelationship.

--- How Much Content to Include in a Consulting Presentation ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Secondary Y-Axis – When to Use It (or Not) ---

Secondary y axis is an area of dispute among some data visualizers, but it's important we cover it
with two y axes.
The viewer needs to spend mental energy figuring out which axis describes which data series.
In the leftmost graph in Accenture's slide, the point is to convey the international posts have experienced
a steady decline in mail volume since 2002.
Accenture had two other options available, rather than using two y axes.
First, the firm could have chosen just one series.
I'd have chosen the growth curve, since that best supports the point.
Second, they could have split one chart into two, but that's the interior design choice here, since
there's not enough room to tell the remaining two parts of the slides overall message.
If you must have two axes, here are my four tips for using a dual y axis chart.
First, use the y axis on the left for the primary variable and the one on the right for the secondary
variable.
And this is because our brains are conditioned to look for the y axis on the left of a chart.
To take advantage of this, use the y axis on the left for the more important variable.
On a sales versus profits chart, where you want the focus to be on sales, use the primary y axis on
the left for sales.
Conversely, if you want the primary focus to be on profits, then put the profits on the primary y
axis.
Second, color code your axes and data labels by color coding your axes, names, data labels, and
the data plot.
It helps the user identify the axis with its corresponding data plot.
It visually brings out the difference in scales of the two axes.
This will ultimately save your audience a lot of time that would otherwise go to waste looking up and
down the chart.
Third, when the dual y axis is used to plot the same variable in different units of measurement, synchronize
the y axis scales.
When we use the dual y axis to point the same variable in different units of measurement, say centigrade
and Fahrenheit or pounds and kilograms.
It's best to synchronize the two y axes.
The single data plot can then stand for both the units of measurement, and users can easily find the
value at a specific point simultaneously in the units, and avoid using the same chart type for both
data sets.
Columns tend to be good for discrete categorical data that's measured at standard intervals and used
to facilitate precise comparisons.
Line charts, though, are good for discrete data that's continuous and used to facilitate an understanding
of the overall trend.
Which chart we go with is normally determined by the kind of data analysis we seek.
But in a dual y axis chart, when you have to facilitate transition or comparison for both variables,
the same chart type for both data sets can interfere with each other.
For example, lines may meet which if drawn on the same scale, would not be anywhere close to each
other.
Sometimes even columns may look quite close, when in reality that may not be the case.
While the problems with the dual y axis chart cannot be totally avoided, they can be reduced through
using the four methods I've just covered.
A quick final word of advice on these charts use the dual y axis only to understand the trend in the
data and not the value of change.

--- The Problem with 3D Charts ---

Next we turn to a very unpopular type of chart, the 3D chart.
Let me say from the start, I'm not a fan of three dimensional charts.
Let me explain why.
There's always a challenge when using charts to pick the right one to get across your message.
With 3D charts, I find that what makes them unique is in fact, their biggest problem is the depth
of field effect.
It simply has too much room to create confusion for your audience's eyes and brains.
Adding a third dimension is just giving them more work to do.
Remember, one of my key points throughout has been that we're trying to make it easier for the audience
to get our message.
We don't want to find a way to make them work harder.
If you're making them work harder than is needed, then what you've made is not a good chart.
Below is a relatively simple 3D clustered column chart.
The first problem with it is that most of your brains will have automatically made estimates based on
the values of columns from the grid in the background.
This is perfectly natural, but it gives a false reading.
The actual height of the columns differs, and since they all start at different points, comparing
them is extremely tough.
Next it gets worse.
For example, if we look at the tallest blue column visually it aligns with the grid line for 50 in
the background.
But if you look carefully, you'll realize its actual value is 65.
Differing heights of columns is normal in a chart, but being able to compare them easily is critical.
Consider the tallest blue column against the tallest green column.
They appear at exactly the same height on the chart.
Obviously, the blue column is a higher value since it starts at a lower point on the chart, but it's
difficult to determine with any precision how much higher it is.
This is where data labels could be put to good effect by putting data points above each tower.
However, there are two problems with this, especially with multiple data series charts.
First, if you label all the columns in a three dimensional chart of more than one data series, the
chart is overly busy.
Secondly, and more importantly, although the labels clearly show that one column is numerically greater
than the other, visually, there's poor confirmation of this.
Quite simply, doing this chart in 2D makes a lot more sense for everybody involved.
If you're not convinced yet.
A third problem with this chart is data dependent in a multiple series 3D column chart.
A higher value column in the foreground may totally obscure a lower value column in the background,
resulting in missing data.
If you look at Ward 106, the chart gives you no idea whether the green column is zero or simply a low
enough number that it's completely obscured.
Lastly, personally, I identify patterns and trends in a 3D chart is a lot more difficult than in 2D
charts.
This is especially the case with more than one data series.
It's not to say it's impossible, but I think it's harder than it needs to be.

--- Chart Design Checklist ---

Let's finish with considering what you need to check when creating charts and graphs, you could be
creating them for all kinds of forums, since they found their way into news presentations and many
other places.
Which design principles are used will of course depend upon the use.
For example, if you're doing a chart for a presentation, then you'll want to keep it simple.
Use minimal text.
On the other hand, if you're designing a graphic for a newspaper, then you'll have specific size constraints
and will need to focus on exactly how to convey the most important part.
There are a few basic rules you should follow, though, regardless of your final outlet.
I should say there is some room to move around the rules, so consider them more a framework than a
set of rules which can't be broken.
But if you use this framework, I think you'll be starting with a good foundation.
First, don't add any more complexity than is absolutely necessary.
Text heavy information can go in the appendix.
Keep it simple.
The biggest error with data visualization is clutter and trying to do too much.
Second, check the data.
It sounds obvious, but it's a common error as your data determines the output in your charts and graphs,
you need to make sure it's good.
If you're using weak data, then your graph will be weak.
A quick way to check this.
Make a simple graph and see if there are too many outliers or weird spikes.
Verify everything, which doesn't make sense to you.
It could just be a typo.
Third, explain explaining coatings use a color scale to indicate magnitude or the size of a square
to represent values.
It might be the case that you need to use both.
Whatever you do though, explain what these encodings indicate.
Don't just assume your audience will somehow know what it means.
The chances are they won't know until you tell them.
Explanations can be done in a variety of ways.
The legend is popular, but also directly labeling shapes can work.
Sometimes even describing your graphic in a lead in paragraph is what people do.
But whichever one you go with do choose one label axes.
Make sure to label your axes.
If you don't, the audience will have no idea the scale your data is operating on or even what your
data is about.
If you didn't provide a title.
Another good point to remember is always start your axis at zero.
Next, include units.
This follows on from point three.
Make sure units are noted.
Without them, the audience is left to guess whether you mean percentages, volume, or anything else
they can imagine it to be.
Eliminate that guesswork for the audience.
Six keep your geometry in check.
This is one for doing more graphics.
Make sure your geometry is correct.
If not, it will almost certainly be the first error people point out.
This means, for example, if you're using bubble size to indicate a numerical value, you have to get
it right.
Seven include your sources.
While this shouldn't need to be said, I'm sure you already know it.
It's amazing how frequently it isn't done.
You should always know where data is from.
The exact placement may vary.
You can decide that placing it directly in a graphic is best.
Or your charts part of an article.
It can be sourced in the text.
If you're wondering why it's important, it helps you in a couple of ways.
First, it helps to make your graphic more reputable.
And second, for you, those in your audience who are interested, they can dig deeper into the data.
Eight don't use any more colors than needed.
McKinsey only used black and white for a really long time.
And nine consider your audience.
I hope by this point you don't actually need this reminder, but you do need to remember your audience.
That means consider who they are and what they want to get out of the chart.
When you do this and execute it well, it leads to really good results, whether that be a graphic which
needs to be incredibly detailed, with the expectation that people will pore over every detail, or
for a presentation during which it will feature for seconds.
And as a final suggestion, avoid bad fonts.
Make sure font sizes are legible.
Of course, these are rules that can be broken, but the framework they provide you serves you well.
So with that as your foundation, the challenge for you now is to be able to take that data and tell
a clear story and make sure that in doing so, your data is effectively communicated.
If you do that, you'll be doing a good job.

--- The 5-Step Process for Creating Effective Charts ---

Creating effective charts isn't just about choosing the right chart type and making it look good.
It's a systematic process that starts with understanding your message and ends with a visualization
that drives action.
Before you touch any data or design tools, you need to be crystal clear about what story you want to
tell.
What's the one key insight you want your audience to understand?
What action do you want them to take based on this information?
What questions are you trying to answer?
Let's say you're analyzing sales performance across different regions.
Your message might be West Coast sales are significantly outperforming other regions, suggesting we
should reallocate marketing resources.
This clear message will guide every subsequent decision about how to visualize the data.
Once you know your message, you need to identify what type of data relationship best supports that
message.
In our sales example, you're primarily showing a ranking relationship comparing performance across
regions.
But you might also want to show time series data, how this performance has changed over time, or composition
data.
How different product lines contribute to regional performance based on your data relationship.
Choose the chart type that will most effectively communicate your message.
For our sales example, you might start with a bar chart showing total sales by region, then add a
line chart showing trends over time and perhaps a stacked bar chart showing product mix by region,
step for design for clarity and impact.
This is where you apply design principles to ensure your chart is clear, professional and persuasive.
Choose colors that support your message, perhaps highlighting the West Coast performance in a different
color.
Add clear labels and titles.
Remove unnecessary elements that might distract from your main message.
Step five test and refine.
Show your chart to someone who wasn't involved in creating it.
Can they immediately understand the message?
Do they draw the same conclusions you intended?
If not, refine your design until the message is unmistakable.

--- Chart Checklist ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Using Diagrams Effectively ---

Diagrams or frameworks provide scaffolding for the story.
What comes first?
What comes last?
Is there some correlation or causality?
Well, you don't want to be so heavy handed that the audience feels like you're going through an outline.
You do want some organization.
If not, they may feel like you're giving them a box of Trivial Pursuit facts.
It can be disorientating and painful.
For example, if your organization is merging with two others, you can use a diagram of three overlapping
circles to signify redundancies between departments.
Or, if you want to encourage your team members to innovate iteratively, try using a flow diagram that
looks back on itself in several places to illustrate the process of working out kinks in a prototype.
On Nancy Duarte's website here they show 4000 plus different diagrams, but they're largely bucketed
into six main categories or archetypes.
Consultants will find this all very familiar territory because we do it every day.
We put things in buckets, prioritize them, and make complex things simple.
So please check out the website diagrams.
If you'd like to download some diagram templates and use them in your next presentation.
Let's look at some examples in a real life consulting presentation to help us learn how to use diagrams
to represent processes, relationships, and geospatial information.
Despite the existence of countless standard and custom diagrams, none of the three management consulting
firms used even a single one in their USPS presentations.
However rare, there are several diagrams that are extremely useful for conveying certain messages,
including chevron lists to illustrate sequential processes or flows, organizational charts to illustrate
any hierarchical relationship.
Not only that among people.
Venn diagrams to illustrate overlapping interrelationships between same sets of items.
Network diagrams to illustrate structural but non-hierarchical interrelationships between components
in a system, and maps to illustrate the distribution of data by geospatial location.

--- Why Process Mapping Matters ---

If you've ever stepped into a client's office and felt buried in complexity, confused by who does what,
where delays creep in, or how a seemingly simple task turns into a bureaucratic maze, you're not alone.
Process mapping is one of the most practical, revealing tools a management consultant can use.
At its core, it's about making the invisible visible.
Let me start with a story that perfectly illustrates why process mapping is so crucial.
Last year, I was working with a mid-sized manufacturing company that was hemorrhaging money.
Their customer complaints were through the roof.
Delivery times were unpredictable and employee morale was at an all time low.
The CEO was convinced they needed to hire more people, invest in new technology, or completely overhaul
their systems.
But when we sat down and actually mapped out their processes, something fascinating emerged.
The problem wasn't lack of resources or outdated technology.
The problem was that nobody, not even the senior management, truly understood how work actually flowed
through their organization.
This is where process mapping becomes absolutely transformative.
Why process mapping is essential.
Process mapping serves multiple critical functions that make it indispensable for management consultants.
First and foremost, it provides a visual representation of how work actually gets done, not how people
think it gets done or how the official procedures say it should get done.
There's often a massive gap between these three versions of reality, and process mapping helps us bridge
that gap.
When you create a process map, you're essentially taking an x ray of the organization's operations.
You can see the flow of information, materials, decisions, and approvals in a way that makes patterns
immediately visible.
This visual clarity is incredibly powerful because it allows everyone involved, from frontline employees
to senior executives, to see the same picture and understand exactly what's happening.
Consider a typical customer service process in a telecommunications company.
Without a process map, you might hear complaints about slow response times, but you won't know if
the problem is in the initial call.
Routing, the information gathering phase, the technical diagnosis, the solution implementation,
or the follow up verification.
With a detailed process map, you can pinpoint exactly where delays occur, identify redundant steps
and spot opportunities for automation or elimination.
Process mapping also serves as a diagnostic tool for identifying problems and their root causes.
When you map out a process, inefficiencies become glaringly obvious.
You might discover that a simple approval that should take minutes is actually bouncing between five
different departments over several days.
You might find that critical information is being re-entered multiple times by different people, creating
opportunities for errors and consuming valuable time.
Furthermore, process mapping is essential for designing and implementing improvements.
Once you understand the current state, you can design a future state that eliminates waste, reduces
cycle time, and improves quality.
Without this foundation improvement efforts often fail because they are based on assumptions rather
than facts.
The tool also helps establish measurement points throughout the process.
When you map out each step, you can identify where to measure cycle time, quality, cost, and customer
satisfaction.
This measurement capability is crucial for ensuring that improvements actually deliver the expected
results, and for maintaining performance over time.

--- Understanding the Six-Step Methodology for Process Mapping ---

The systematic approach to process analysis and redesign follows a logical six step methodology that
ensures comprehensive coverage and sustainable results.
Let me walk you through each step with practical examples and real world applications.
Step one selecting and prioritizing processes for redesign.
The first step involves strategic thinking about which processes deserve your attention.
Not all processes are created equal and your time and resources are limited.
You need to focus on processes that have the greatest impact on customer satisfaction, operational
efficiency, or business results.
Start by conducting a process inventory across the organization.
This might include core processes like order fulfillment, product development, customer service,
and billing, as well as supporting processes like hiring, training, budgeting, and performance management.
For each process, evaluate its impact on customer experience, its cost to the organization, its frequency
of execution, and the level of pain or frustration it currently causes.
I once worked with a healthcare organization that had dozens of processes they wanted to improve.
Rather than trying to tackle everything at once.
We used a simple prioritization matrix that considered patient impact, regulatory compliance requirements,
cost implications, and implementation complexity.
This helped us focus on the emergency room patient flow process first, which had the highest patient
impact and the greatest potential for improvement.
The key is to be strategic and realistic about what you can accomplish.
It's better to completely transform 2 or 3 critical processes than to make marginal improvements to
20 different processes.
Step two understanding current processes and identifying products and customers.
This step requires you to clearly define what the process produces and who receives that output.
This might sound simple, but it's often more complex than it appears.
Many processes have multiple outputs and serve multiple customer groups, both internal and external.
Use brainstorming sessions with process participants to identify all the outputs or products that the
process generates.
These should be concrete and describable.
For example, a hiring process might produce several outputs a hired candidate, updated personnel records,
completed background checks, signed employment contracts, and orientation Schedules.
Once you've identified the outputs, you need to identify all the customers who receive or use these
outputs.
This includes both obvious external customers and less obvious internal customers.
The hiring process, for instance, serves the hiring manager who needs a qualified employee, the HR
department that needs complete documentation, the payroll department that needs employment information,
and the new employee who needs a smooth onboarding experience.
Step three analyzing and categorizing customers.
Not all customers are equally important, and this step helps you focus your improvement efforts on
the customers who matter most.
The methodology distinguishes between different types of customers based on their relationship to the
process and their level of importance.
External direct customers are those outside your organization who directly receive the process output.
These are typically your paying customers or end users.
Internal direct customers are people within your organization who directly use the process output to
perform their own work.
External indirect customers are outside parties who are affected by the process but don't directly receive
its output.
Internal indirect customers are or internal parties who are indirectly affected by the process.
The most critical customers are typically the external direct customers because they have the greatest
impact on business success.
However, you can't ignore internal customers, especially when their satisfaction affects their ability
to serve external customers effectively.
Create a customer importance matrix that plots each customer group based on their level of importance
and their relationship to the process.
This visual tool helps you prioritize which customer needs should drive your process design decisions.
Step four understanding customer requirements using the Rumba criteria.
Once you've identified your key customers, you need to understand their requirements in detail.
This is where the rumba criteria become invaluable.
Rumba stands for reasonable, understandable, measurable, believable, and achievable.
Customer requirements must be reasonable, meaning they make sense given the context and constraints
of the business.
A customer might want same day delivery for a custom manufactured product, but this requirement might
not be reasonable given the complexity of the manufacturing process.
Requirements must be understandable, meaning everyone involved can clearly comprehend what the customer
wants.
Vague requirements like good service or high quality need to be translated into specific, concrete
terms.
They must be measurable so you can determine whether you're meeting them or not.
Instead of fast response, you need response within four hours during business days.
Requirements must be believable, meaning the customer genuinely needs this level of performance.
Sometimes customers state requirements that are much more stringent than they actually need.
Often because they're trying to compensate for past poor performance.
Finally, requirements must be achievable given your organization's capabilities and constraints.
There's no point in designing a process around requirements that you can't possibly meet.
Use customer surveys, interviews, focus groups, and direct observation to gather requirement information.
Don't rely solely on what customers say they want.
Observe what they actually do and how they actually use your process outputs.
Designing and redesigning the process.
This is where the real transformation happens.
Armed with a clear understanding of customer requirements and current process performance, you can
now design a process that delivers superior results.
This step involves both creative thinking and analytical rigor.
Start by challenging every step in the current process.
Ask fundamental questions.
Why is this step necessary?
What value does it add for the customer?
Could it be eliminated combined with another step or automated?
Could it be done in parallel with other steps rather than sequentially?
Consider a loan approval process at a bank.
The traditional process might involve sequential steps application submission, initial review, credit
check, income verification, collateral assessment, management approval, and final documentation.
Each step might take several days, resulting in a total cycle time of several weeks.
By redesigning the process, you might enable parallel processing of credit checks and income verification,
automate initial screening based on pre-defined criteria, and eliminate redundant approval steps for
low risk applications.
The key is to design the process around customer requirements rather than internal convenience.
If customers need faster turnaround times, look for opportunities to reduce cycle time if they need
more accurate information.
Build in quality checks and verification steps if they need better communication.
Design and regular status updates and proactive notifications.
Establishing process measurement standards and reviewing personnel requirements.
The final step ensures that your redesigned process will deliver sustainable results, and that your
organization has the right people and skills to execute it effectively.
This involves establishing key performance indicators, defining measurement procedures, and assessing
staffing and training needs.
Identify the critical few metrics that will tell you whether the process is performing as designed.
These typically include measures of quality, speed, cost, and customer satisfaction.
For each metric, establish baseline performance levels, target performance levels, and measurement
frequency.
Also consider the human element.
Does the redesigned process require different skills, knowledge, or experience?
Do people need additional training?
Are there changes in roles, responsibilities or reporting relationships?
Do you need different staffing levels or different organizational structures?

--- Creating Effective Process Maps ---

Now let's dive into the practical mechanics of creating effective process maps.
This is where theory meets practice and where your skills as a consultant really shine through.
The six step approach to creating process maps provides a systematic methodology that ensures you capture
all the essential elements, while maintaining clarity and usability.
Let me walk you through each step with detailed examples and practical tips.
Step one listing all process elements.
Begin by conducting thorough interviews and observation sessions with people who actually perform the
work.
Don't rely on official procedures or management's understanding of how things work.
Go to the gemba.
As lean practitioners say.
Go to the actual place where the work happens and observe it firsthand.
Use sticky notes or index cards to capture each element of the process.
Write down every input that triggers or enables the process.
Every action or activity that transforms inputs into outputs.
Every decision point where the process can branch in different directions.
Every output that the process produces, and every person or department involved in each step.
For example, when mapping a customer complaint resolution process, you might identify inputs like
customer phone calls, emails, web form submissions, and social media posts.
Actions might include logging the complaint, researching the customer's history, investigating the
issue, developing a solution, implementing the fix, and following up with the customer.
Decision points might include determining complaint severity, deciding whether to escalate to management,
and choosing between different resolution options.
Be comprehensive.
In this phase, it's better to capture too much detail initially and simplify later than to miss critical
elements that cause problems down the road.
Pay special attention to handoffs between different people or departments, as these are often sources
of delays, errors, and miscommunication.
Step two sequencing the process.
Once you have all the elements captured, arrange them in chronological order.
This is where you start to see the flow of the process and identify potential issues with the current
sequence.
Look for opportunities to improve the sequence.
Are there steps that could be done earlier in the process to prevent problems later?
Are there steps that could be done in parallel rather than sequentially?
Are there steps that are out of logical order?
I once worked with a software development company where the testing process was mapped out in detail.
We discovered that user acceptance testing was happening after deployment to production, which meant
that any issues found by users required emergency fixes and rollbacks by moving user acceptance testing
earlier in the sequence before deployment, they were able to catch issues when they were much easier
and less expensive to fix.
Step three organizing steps by responsible party.
Create columns or swim lanes for each person, department, or system involved in the process.
This visual organization immediately highlights several important aspects of the process workload distribution,
hand off points, and potential bottlenecks.
When you organize steps this way, you can quickly see if the workload is evenly distributed or if certain
people or departments are overwhelmed while others are underutilized.
You can also see where work passes from one party to another, which are often points where delays occur
or information gets lost.
For instance, in a typical order fulfillment process, you might have swim lanes for the customer sales
representative, credit department, warehouse shipping department and billing department.
When you map out all the steps in their respective swim lanes, you might discover that the credit department
is involved in every single order, even small orders from established customers, creating an unnecessary
bottleneck.
Adding standard flowchart symbols use standardized symbols to represent different types of process elements.
This standardization makes your process maps easier to read and understand, especially for people who
work with process maps regularly.
The basic symbols include ovals for process start and end points, rectangles for process steps or activities,
diamonds for decision points, and arrows for process flow direction.
These simple symbols can represent complex business processes in a clear, universally understood format.
Consistency in symbol usage is crucial if you use a rectangle to represent an activity in one part of
your map.
Use rectangles for all activities throughout the map.
If you use a diamond for decision points, use diamonds for all decision points.
This consistency helps readers quickly understand what they're looking at without having to decode different
symbol meanings.
Consolidating sequential steps.
Look for opportunities to combine consecutive steps that are performed by the same person or department.
This simplification makes the process map easier to read while maintaining all the essential information.
However, be careful not to oversimplify.
If two consecutive steps have different cycle times, error rates, or resource requirements, it might
be important to keep them separate for analysis purposes.
The goal is to find the right level of detail that serves your purpose without creating unnecessary
complexity.
Connecting steps with flow arrows.
The final step involves drawing arrows to show how the process flows from one step to the next.
This includes the main process flow, as well as exception paths, rework loops, and alternative routes
through the process.
Pay special attention to decision points and their multiple output paths.
Make sure every possible outcome of a decision has a clearly marked path forward.
Also, look for loops in the process where work might cycle back to earlier steps for rework or additional
processing.
Real world application.
The pizza delivery example.
Let me illustrate these concepts with a practical example that demonstrates how process mapping works
in a real business context.
Consider a pizza delivery operation, which might seem simple but actually involves multiple parties,
decision points, and potential failure modes.
The process begins when a customer has a need for hot, fast pizza delivery.
The customer places an order by phone, which triggers a series of activities involving the cashier,
the kitchen staff, and the delivery driver.
Each of these parties has specific roles and responsibilities, and the handoffs between them are critical
to overall process performance.
When we map this process using Swimlanes, we can see exactly how workflows between the customer, cashier,
chef, and delivery driver.
The customer initiates the process by calling and placing an order.
The cashier takes the order, processes payment, and passes the order to the kitchen.
The chef receives the order and begins preparation, but first must make a decision about whether the
oven is preheated and ready.
This decision point is crucial because it affects the overall cycle time of the process.
If the oven isn't ready, the chef must take time to preheat it before beginning pizza preparation.
If it is ready, the chef can proceed directly to making the pizza.
This type of decision point is common in business processes, and often represents opportunities for
improvement through better planning or resource management.
Once the pizza is prepared and baked, it's packaged and handed off to the delivery driver.
The driver then faces another decision point do they know the customer's address or do they need to
look it up?
This decision affects delivery time and represents another potential improvement opportunity through
better information systems or driver training.
The process concludes when the customer receives their hot pizza, representing the successful delivery
of the process output to the external customer.
But notice how many things could go wrong along the way.
The order could be taken incorrectly.
The oven might not be working, the pizza could be burned, the driver might get lost, or the customer
might not be home.
Each of these potential failure modes represents an opportunity for process improvement.
By mapping out the process in detail, we can identify where problems are most likely to occur and design
preventive measures or recovery procedures.
Macro versus micro process views.
One of the most important concepts in process mapping is understanding when to use macro level views
versus macro level views.
This decision affects how much detail you include and how you structure your analysis.
A macro process view shows the high level flow from initial customer need to final result delivery.
It's useful for understanding overall process performance, identifying major bottlenecks, and communicating
with senior management.
The macro view typically includes 5 to 10 major process steps and focuses on the big picture rather
than detailed activities.
A microprocessor view drills down into the detailed steps within each major process phase.
It's useful for identifying specific improvement opportunities, designing detailed procedures, and
training process participants.
The micro view might include dozens of detailed steps and decision points within a single macro level
process step.
The key is knowing when to use each view, when you're presenting to executives, or trying to understand
overall process performance.
The macro view is usually more appropriate when you're working with frontline employees to improve specific
activities or solve particular problems.
The micro view is more useful.

--- Turning Data into Actionable Insights ---

Data is the foundation of consulting recommendations.
But data alone doesn't drive decisions.
Insights do.
The difference between data and insights is the difference between information and understanding.
Data tells you what happened.
Insights tell you what it means and what you should do about it.
Most consulting presentations suffer from what I call data dumping.
Showing charts and numbers without clearly explaining their significance.
This approach forces your audience to do the analytical work themselves, which they don't have time
to do and shouldn't have to do.
Let me give you a concrete example.
Suppose you're analyzing customer satisfaction for a telecommunications company.
Here's how most consultants would present their findings.
Customer satisfaction scores have declined from 7.2 to 6.8 over the past 12 months, across all service
categories.
This is data, not insight.
It tells us what happened, but not why it matters or what should be done about it.
Here's how to transform this data into insight.
Declining customer satisfaction is costing you $23 million annually in increased churn, and the trend
is accelerating due to poor call center performance and network reliability issues.
The insight version connects the data to business impact and identifies the root causes.
It gives executives the information they need to make decisions and take action.
This principle of insight driven analysis should govern every chart, graph, and data point in your
presentation before including any piece of analysis.
Ask yourself three questions one.
What does this data tell us about the business situation?
Two why should my audience care about this finding?
Three what action should they take based on this information?
If you can't answer all three questions clearly the data probably doesn't belong in your presentation.
Let's look at how this works with different types of analysis commonly used in consulting presentations.
Financial analysis when presenting financial data, don't just show the numbers.
Explain what they mean for the business.
Instead of presenting a complex PNL analysis, focus on the key financial insights that drive your recommendations.
Weak revenue grew 8% last year, while costs increased 12%, resulting in margin compression of 180
basis points.
Strong margin pressure is accelerating because your cost structure isn't scaling.
With revenue growth.
Without action, margins will fall below 10% within two years, threatening your ability to invest in
growth.
The strong version connects the financial data to future business implications and creates urgency for
action.
Market analysis.
Market data should always be presented in the context of competitive positioning and strategic implications.
Don't just show market size and growth rates.
Explain what they mean for your clients.
Opportunities and threats.
Weak.
The market is growing at 15% annually and is expected to reach $2.3 billion by 2025.
Strong fast market growth creates a $500 million opportunity for you, but only if you move quickly
before competitors establish dominant positions in key segments.
Customer analysis customer research should focus on actionable insights about behavior preferences and
unmet needs.
Don't just present survey results.
Explain what they mean for product development, marketing, and customer experience.
Week 67% of customers rated our service as good or excellent.
Strong customer satisfaction is masking a retention problem.
Satisfied customers are still switching to competitors who offer better digital experiences.
Says operational analysis operational data should highlight specific improvement opportunities and their
business impact.
Don't just show process maps and efficiency metrics.
Explain how operational improvements will drive business results week.
The current process has seven handoffs and takes an average of 12 days to complete.
Strong streamlining the approval process will reduce cycle time by 60% and free up $2.3 million in working
capital.
The key to effective data presentation is what I call the so what discipline.
Every piece of analysis should have a clear so what that connects the finding to business impact and
recommended action.
But insights aren't just about individual data points.
They're also about patterns and connections across different pieces of analysis.
The most powerful consulting presentations identify themes that emerge from multiple data sources,
and use these themes to build compelling arguments for change.
For example, you might find that customer satisfaction is declining, employee engagement is dropping,
and operational efficiency is stagnating.
Individually, these might seem like separate problems, but together they might indicate a deeper issue
with organizational culture or leadership effectiveness.
This type of pattern recognition is what separates good consultants from great ones.

--- Editable PowerPoint Diagrams (Templates) ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Using Tables Effectively ---

Tables are another area of particular concern in presentations, but unfortunately, in all likelihood
you're going to come across situations where they're unavoidable.
What we need to remember here is that what's on screen should be helping to tell the story of the data,
rather than presenting it so the audience has or will try to figure it out for themselves.
Highlighting for rows and columns can be of some help, but if you can find a way to highlight the exact
numbers you're talking about, then that will provide a much higher degree of clarity.
A little animation can also help keep the audience engaged with what you're saying, rather than starting
to make their own exploration of the numbers while they're on screen, which is one of the pitfalls
shared by most forms of data display.
Also, just as with charts at the start of this chapter, if you have large tables of information,
try and segment them into smaller tables.
And as with other complex data, it's often better to make this available to the audience at the end
of the presentation for their own analysis, than to try and explain the table itself when there are
too many relationships in a graph, or when we want to make a calculation or emphasize a single value.
We'll choose a table.
However, other than these situations, please don't use too many tables in your presentation because
it tends to be cluttered and difficult to read, which would obscure the key message.
You can also think about putting tables in your appendix section for further reference.
Design is critical if you're going to make a table which is clear and easy to interpret.
Issues I suggest you consider are.
It's important to consider how your data is arranged between rows and columns.
For most, it's easier to detect a pattern in numerical data by reading down a column rather than across
a row.
With this in mind, you should try and plan your row and column categories in ways that allow your audience
to see the patterns you want to bring to their attention.
If possible, it's also easier to interpret the data if it's arranged according to magnitude, so there
is numerical progression down the columns.
A table will become harder to read when there are several columns or categories of information in it.
It also becomes more difficult to list the data by magnitude, since the order that applies to one column
may not be the same for others.
When this happens, you need to make a judgment about which column contains the most important trend
for your audience.
When you've decided you can structured the table around it.
If you find yourself unable to decide which column is most important, simply split them into separate
tables so that one doesn't obscure the other.
Always try to present numbers in their most simple format.
To achieve this, you can round up values to avoid the use of decimal places or state the units.
For example, instead of writing 3,400,000 USD, you can write 3.4 million.
Titles of tables should have enough detail that a reader can understand the content without needing
to consult the accompanying text.
You should also note the source of the data being used, whether that be a book, a journal, or something
else.
When you're using more than one table, it's standard practice to give each one a unique reference number.
If it's a much larger report or perhaps a dissertation, you should give a list of tables with their
page number.
The list of tables will normally be placed after the contents page on its own dedicated page.
What you should avoid doing is having your table look like it's come straight out of a spreadsheet.
By this I mean avoid having each entry bounded in a box.
When a table is formatted in such a way, it makes it harder to read across rows and columns.
Avoid large gaps between columns, since this also makes it difficult to read along a row.
Use formatting selectively to enhance your points and make it easier for the audience to understand.
You can achieve this through tricks like the use of lines and making separate headings.
Bold.
You may also consider shading specific rows to help highlight the key points.
So management consultants rely on tables when the audience need exact values.
Viewers can rapidly discern trends and patterns from a well-designed graph.
The downside of this benefit is that it's nearly impossible to determine the value of a data point with
any real precision, especially sitting ten or more feet away from a screen.
If only a few precise values matter, stick with a graph and just add data value annotations.
However, when the audience needs to know a larger number of values with precision, tables are your
only choice.
BCG must have felt exact values for real revenue per delivery point were critical to the audience,
since it devoted its only table for this purpose.
On the page, BCG table illustrates two additional benefits of using tables.
The first is the ability to simultaneously show detailed data and summary statistics in the table.
First class mail and standard mail numbers are the detail.
There are two forms of summary statistics the total mail values, as well as the oh 9 to 20 change percentages.
The second benefit is the ability to mix data with different measures here average pieces per delivery
point, per delivery day, and real or inflation adjusted revenue per delivery point per day.
Sometimes we also use tables when you need to combine text, data or images.
Tables are also the only option when you need to mix text, data and images, as illustrated in Accenture's
slide.
The formatting of this table allows us to explore several table design best practices.
So, for example, left align words and phrases, right align numbers, center images including icons,
pictures, Harvey balls, checkboxes, etc. and single characters of text.
Numbers should contain commas and equal precision beyond the decimal point.
Numbers should be rounded to the simplest number of digits while preserving required accuracy.
Data symbols such as percentage signs and dollar signs are optional, provided the rows and columns
are unambiguously labeled.
For extra clarity, add at least the symbol to the topmost or leftmost value in the column or row,
and avoid or minimize the use of grid lines.
In slide 37, Accenture used alignment to eliminate vertical grid lines and used ultra thin, light
colored horizontal grid lines.
Another point is that we should always prioritize the order of table information from top to bottom
and left to right.
If you're working with Western cultures.
Table information should be ordered the way audience members eyes scan the slide.
Top to bottom, left to right.
Accenture closely adhered to this best practice in this slide.
The slide title communicates the core message of the slide.
Establishing sizeable market presence takes time.
From a storytelling point of view, the table must prove the message.
So from top to bottom, the first and second rows immediately address when specific international posts
begin to diversify.
The remaining rows provide extra detail, with comments relegated to the bottom where they belong.
From left to right, the four sizable diversification areas get preferential treatment in both location
and shading.
Though Accenture didn't need to do this, switching the text in the business services column would further
de-emphasize the last area.
Finally, note that eyes naturally gravitate to objects in close proximity.
To use this physiological principle to your advantage, space rows very closely together.
If you want people to read top to bottom first and space columns very closely together.
If you want people to read left to right first.

--- Table Design Checklist ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Table vs. Chart – When to Use Each ---

Now.
Table and chart.
Which is better?
Tables to represent facts and figures in a row and column format.
Charts represent data in a graphic manner and may include lines, bars and circles.
Tables and charts are both used to represent data, but the manner and circumstances in which each is
used distinguishes them from one another.
Tables represent facts and figures in a row and column format, which makes the data easier and faster
to read and compare.
On the other hand, charts represent data in a more graphical manner, which may include lines, bars,
and circles.
For most people, tables are easy to use as they consist of a few columns and rows, which tend to have
an ordered hierarchy.
This makes them easy to make and easy to understand.
They also provide a nice contrast to reading data and lengthy sentences.
The advantage of tables is that they interact with our verbal system, allowing us to process information
in a sequential fashion.
We read the data down columns or across rows of numbers, which makes it easier to compare data side
by side.
Hence, it makes it easier for us to understand and draw conclusions with charts, though they are primarily
used to define the relationship between a large quantity of data and its parts.
Charts rely on using our visual system to make it easier for us to read and understand.
The data charts can give shape and form to the data, which can't be achieved with tables.
Our visual system then perceives the shapes and forms and deciphers them to extract patterns and relationships
among the data.
For those of us who use charts and tables frequently, it's the common belief that a single chart can
convey important features of the data more vividly and memorably than columns of data are able to do.
Most of the time, charts do not include a lot of text.
As I suggested already, texts should be kept minimal, being used only for describing data that's being
referred to in the chart.
Data in a graphical chart is usually displayed on a grid scale consisting of a horizontal x axis or
vertical y axis.
If the data has multiple variables, the chart may have a legend listing the variables in it for easy
identification, although again, remember that data tags can also be used to achieve the same objective
in a way which causes less confusion to your audience.

--- Using Words Effectively on Slides ---

We should refrain from using too many words on our slides.
Words should be used sparingly.
Your audience has a simple choice.
Thus, they can either listen to you or they can read your slides.
They can't do both.
So slides like this distract at best and at worst lead to things like cognitive overload while we try
and process these different streams of information.
And it's exhausting.
What do we do when we're exhausted?
Exactly.
We go to what I like to call sleepy Bobos.
So as a management consultant, we limit the word slides to these uses.
First, we use words to lead audience through logic flow.
The typical situation is to summarize findings and recommendations.
And we also use word slides.
Sometimes we also use words to present qualitative information as well, because most concepts can be
effectively interpreted in words.
If our analysis is way too complicated, we'll put some words to explain what's going on here.
Instead of burying numbers in slides, which is difficult for audience to grasp the meaning of.
Now, we've gone through the main formats in the body of a management consulting presentation, but
in real life we have a great tendency to use a combination of graphics, tables, and words to present
the message both visually and verbally.

--- The Unique Challenge of Consulting Communication ---

Before we dive into specific techniques, let's understand what makes consulting communication so challenging.
When you're presenting to senior executives, you're not just sharing information, you're competing
for the most precious resource in business executive attention.
Consider the typical day of a fortune 500 CEO.
They receive over 120 emails, attend 6 to 8 meetings, and make dozens of decisions that affect thousands
of employees and millions in revenue.
In this environment, your presentation isn't just competing with other consulting reports.
It's competing with merger discussions, crisis management and strategic planning sessions.
This reality demands a fundamentally different approach to business writing.
You can't afford to bury your insights in dense paragraphs or hide your recommendations behind layers
of analysis.
Every word must earn its place on the slide.
Every sentence must advance your argument.
Every paragraph must drive toward action.
The most successful consulting presentations follow what I call the executive attention hierarchy.
At the top of this hierarchy are clear, actionable recommendations that directly impact business outcomes
in the middle are supporting insights that explain why these recommendations matter.
At the bottom are detailed analyses that provide credibility but should never overshadow the main message.
Let me give you a concrete example.
Imagine you're presenting a market entry strategy for a pharmaceutical company considering expansion
into Southeast Asia.
Here's how most consultants would title their key slide market analysis.
Southeast Asian pharmaceutical landscape.
This title tells us the topic but gives us no insight.
It forces executives to work to understand what they should care about.
Now here's how a master of Consulting Communication would title the same slide.
Thailand and Vietnam offer $2.3 billion opportunity with 40% lower regulatory barriers than China.
See the difference?
The second title immediately tells executives what they need to know and why it matters to their business.
It transforms a passive information dump into an active business.
Insight.
This principal leading with insight rather than topic is fundamental to effective consulting communication.
It's based on a deeper understanding of how executive minds work under pressure.

--- Lead with Purpose, Speak to Pressure ---

The first and most critical principle of effective consulting communication is crystal clear purpose.
Before you write a single word, you must answer this question what specific action do I want my audience
to take after reading this?
This might sound obvious, but you'd be amazed how many consulting presentations fail this basic test.
I've reviewed thousands of consulting decks, and I can tell you that the vast majority suffer from
what I call purpose drift.
They start with a clear objective, but gradually lose focus as the authors get caught up in showcasing
their analytical prowess.
Let me share a real example from my experience.
A team of consultants was hired to help a retail chain improve their customer loyalty program.
After six weeks of analysis, they prepared a presentation with 47 slides covering customer segmentation,
competitive benchmarking, technology platforms, and implementation timelines.
When the CEO asked what exactly are you recommending we do?
The lead consultant spent five minutes explaining the complexity of the situation before finally suggesting
they consider a multi-phased approach to loyalty program optimization.
That's not a recommendation.
That's a suggestion to think about.
Thinking about something.
The CEO's response was predictable.
Come back when you have a clear recommendation.
Here's how the same team could have approached this differently.
Instead of starting with analysis, they should have started with purpose.
Their purpose statement might have been convince the CEO to approve a $2.3 million investment in a new
loyalty platform that will increase customer retention by 15% within 18 months.
With this clear purpose, every slide would have been designed to support this specific ask.
The customer segmentation analysis would have focused on which segments would benefit most from the
new platform.
The competitive benchmarking would have highlighted how competitors were gaining advantage through superior
loyalty programs.
The technology discussion would have focused on why this specific platform was the best choice for achieving
the retention goal.
This purpose driven approach transforms your presentation from an academic exercise into a business
tool.
It forces you to make choices about what to include and what to leave out.
It ensures that every element of your presentation advances your argument, but knowing your purpose
is only half the battle.
You also need to understand how your purpose aligns with your audience's needs and pressures.
This brings us to the second critical principle deep audience understanding.
When you're presenting to senior executives, you're not just presenting to individuals.
You're presenting to people operating under intense pressure to deliver results.
The CEO is worried about quarterly earnings.
The CFO is concerned about cash flow.
It shows that you understand their world and that your recommendation is designed to help them succeed
in that world.
Operations is focused on efficiency metrics.
Your presentation must speak to these specific concerns.
Let me illustrate this with another example.
Suppose you're recommending that a manufacturing company invest in automation technology.
Here's how most consultants would frame this recommendation.
We recommend implementing robotic process automation to improve operational efficiency and reduce long
term costs.
This framing focuses on the solution rather than the business problem.
It uses generic language that could apply to any company.
Now, here's how you might frame the same recommendation if you truly understood your audience to protect
margins against rising labor costs and meet the 12% EBITDA target you've committed to shareholders.
We recommend investing $15 million in automation that will reduce unit costs by 23% within two years.
The second framing immediately connects your recommendation to specific business pressures the executives
are facing.
It shows that you understand their world, and that your recommendation is designed to help them succeed
in that world.
This level of audience understanding requires research and empathy.
Before every presentation, spend time understanding the business context, the competitive pressures,
and the personal objectives of your key audience members.
Read the company's recent earnings calls.
Understand their strategic priorities.
Know what keeps them awake at night.
When you combine clear purpose with deep audience understanding, something magical happens.
Your writing becomes naturally persuasive.
You're no longer trying to convince people to care about your analysis.
You're showing them how your insights can help them achieve their goals.

--- The Rule of Three ---

Dramatically, with 78% of banking interactions now happening on mobile devices.
Competitive pressure is intensifying as digital native banks are capturing market share through superior
mobile experiences.
Revenue opportunity is significant, with mobile engaged customers generating 40% higher lifetime value.
See the pattern?
Problem.
Pressure.
Opportunity.
Or you might use current state desired state gap to close the specific framework matters less than the
discipline of organizing your thoughts into three clear logical components.
This principle becomes even more powerful when you apply it to slide design.
Every slide should make one main point, supported by no more than three key pieces of evidence.
If you find yourself with 4 or 5 bullet points, you're probably trying to say too much on one slide.
Here's a real example from a cost reduction project I worked on.
The original slide had six bullet points, explaining why the company should consolidate suppliers,
reduce procurement complexity, improve negotiating leverage, standardize quality processes, simplify
vendor management.
Reduce administrative overhead.
Enhance supply chain visibility.
This list feels overwhelming and unfocused.
Here's how we restructured it.
Using the rule of three.
Supplier consolidation will drive value through three mechanisms cost savings through improved negotiating
leverage, operational efficiency through simplified vendor management, and risk reduction through
standardized quality processes.
The restructured version is not only clearer, it's more persuasive because it connects each benefit
to a specific business outcome.
The rule of three also applies to your overall presentation structure.
The most effective consulting presentations follow a three act structure borrowed from storytelling.
Situation.
Complication.
Resolution.
In business terms, this becomes current state challenge.
Recommendation.
Act one establishes the current situation and why it matters.
Act two introduces the complication, the problem, opportunity or pressure that demands action.
Act three presents your resolution, the specific recommendations that will address the complication.
This structure works because it mirrors how executives think about business problems.
They start with understanding the current situation, then identify what needs to change, then evaluate
potential solutions by organizing your presentation.
To match this natural thought process, you make it easier for your audience to follow your logic and
accept your conclusions.
Let me give you a complete example of how this might work for a market expansion presentation.
Act one situation.
Your core market is mature, with growth slowing to 2% annually and margins under pressure from new
competitors.
Act two complication.
To achieve your five year growth targets, you need to find $500 million in new revenue, which cannot
come from your existing market.
Act three resolution international expansion into three target markets Germany, Brazil and India can
deliver this growth through a phased approach over 36 months.
This structure creates a compelling narrative that leads executives naturally toward your recommendations.
They understand the situation, feel the pressure of the complication, and see your resolution as the
logical response.
The beauty of the Rule of Three is that it forces you to prioritize.
When you can only present three main points, you have to choose the three most important ones.
This constraint actually makes your communication more powerful because it forces you to focus on what
really matters.

--- The MACJ Method ---

Now that you understand the importance of purpose and structure, let's talk about process.
Great consulting presentations aren't created in a single burst of inspiration.
They're built systematically using a proven approach.
I call it the Mac method.
Madman.
Architect.
Carpenter.
Judge.
This four stage method transforms how you build any consulting presentation from a status update to
a strategic recommendation.
Each stage has a specific role, and the real value comes from not skipping or blending them.
The Madman Stage is all about exploration.
You collect every relevant data point, insight, an idea without editing or filtering.
Think of it as intellectual free play.
Use mind maps, spreadsheets, or any system that helps you cast a wide net and track your sources.
In consulting, this stage is often rushed, but skipping it is like trying to build a house without
gathering materials.
You risk having a weak foundation that collapses under executive scrutiny.
Let's say you're analyzing why a retailer's same store sales are falling in the madman stage.
You might explore customer behavior, data, competitor activity, economic indicators, demographic
trends, supply chain bottlenecks, marketing performance, store location analytics, employee morale,
and pricing strategy.
Your job is to gather broadly and think freely.
Organization comes later.
A key discipline here is source tracking.
Every fact, insight or quote should be attributed.
Your credibility depends on it.
Setting up a simple system for citations early will save you hours later.
Now shift from exploring to structuring.
The architect stage is where you distill your research into a coherent story that moves your audience
from problem to solution.
Start with the rule of three.
Identify the three biggest themes your audience must understand.
For example, customer behavior has shifted toward digital and mobile.
Competitive pressure has increased due to digital native entrants.
The current store format no longer meets evolving customer expectations.
Each theme should be backed by evidence from the madman stage.
But don't just present facts.
Tell a story and always ask the so what?
What does this insight mean for the client?
Why should they care?
How does it tie back to their business goals?
Say your data shows online sales have grown 40% while in-store sales are down 15%.
The So-what is not just that behavior is changing, it's that the client's investments don't match where
their customers actually are.
This is also when you plan the flow of your presentation.
Should you begin with the problem and end with the solution, or open with the opportunity and work
back to risks and implementation?
Tailor the sequence to how your audience makes decisions.
Now it's time to build in the Carpenter Stage speed is key.
Don't get hung up on perfect sentences.
Follow your outline and focus on laying down content fast.
Start with slide titles.
These should be full sentence insights, not vague headings.
For instance, instead of customer analysis, write customers are shifting to digital channels three
x faster than the industry average.
Instead of competitive landscape, write new digital competitors now hold 25% share in core markets.
Once titles are set, fill in content quickly.
Bullet points are your friend three per slide max each just a line long clarity beats polish at this
point.
Now you edit with discipline.
Every word must earn its place.
Start by revisiting slide titles.
Are they specific, action oriented and insightful?
Then move to your content.
Cut fluff.
Strengthen verbs.
Remove jargon.
Ensure each sentence advances your argument.
Check transitions.
Every slide should flow logically to the next.
If you need to verbally explain how slides connect, your structure likely needs adjusting.
Review for consistency.
Are your terms uniform?
Is formatting clean?
Do all your numbers match?
These little things affect your credibility more than you might think.
Finally, apply the elevator test.
Can you summarize your whole presentation clearly and persuasively in two minutes?
If not, go back and refine.

--- Ruthless Simplicity ---

In consulting complexity is the enemy of action.
The more complex your presentation, the less likely your audience is to understand it, remember it,
or act on it.
This is why the most successful consultants are masters of what I call ruthless simplicity, the ability
to distill complex analysis into clear, actionable insights.
Let me start with a story that illustrates this principle.
A few years ago, I was reviewing a presentation for a major technology company that was considering
an acquisition.
The consulting team had done brilliant work.
Their analysis was comprehensive, their data was solid, and their insights were valuable, but their
presentation was a disaster.
The executive summary alone was four slides long.
The main recommendation slide had seven bullet points each with sub bullets.
The supporting analysis included detailed financial models, competitive matrices, and risk assessments
that would have impressed any business school professor.
But when the CEO saw the presentation, his response was immediate.
I don't have time for this.
Give me the bottom line in In 30s, the team had fallen into what I call the complexity trap, the mistaken
belief that complex problems require complex presentations.
In reality, the opposite is true.
The more complex your analysis, the simpler your presentation needs to be.
Here's how that same presentation should have started.
We recommend acquiring Tech Corp. for 502 3 billion because it will accelerate your cloud strategy by
18 months, add million in annual revenue, and strengthen your competitive position against Amazon.
One sentence 30s.
Everything the CEO needed to make an initial decision.
The detailed analysis could come later, but the core recommendation had to be crystal clear from the
start.
This principle of ruthless simplicity applies at every level of your presentation.
Let's start with individual words.
In consulting presentations, every word is expensive real estate.
You're competing for executive attention, and every unnecessary word makes it harder for your audience
to find the insights that matter.
Consider these common consulting phrases and their simpler alternatives instead of.
We have identified an opportunity to optimize operational efficiency through the implementation of best
in class processes.
Right?
We can cut costs by 15% by improving operations instead of.
Our analysis reveals that there exists significant potential for revenue enhancement through strategic
market expansion initiatives.
Right.
You can grow revenue by entering new markets.
Instead of.
The data indicates that customer satisfaction metrics have experienced a downward trajectory.
Right.
Customer satisfaction is declining.
The simpler versions aren't just shorter.
They're more powerful because they're easier to understand and remember.
They also sound more confident because they make direct claims rather than hiding behind corporate speak.
This principle extends to sentence structure.
In consulting presentations, your average sentence length should be no more than 15 words.
Longer sentences force your audience to work harder to understand your meaning, and busy executives
won't do that work.
Here's an example of how to break down a complex sentence.
Original.
Given the current market dynamics and competitive pressures, combined with the company's strategic
objectives and resource constraints, we believe that a phased approach to international expansion,
beginning with English speaking markets and gradually extending to more complex regulatory environments,
represents the optimal path forward for achieving sustainable growth while minimizing execution risk.
Revised.
We recommend a phased international expansion.
Start with English speaking markets to minimize risk, then expand to more complex markets as you build
capabilities.
This approach balances growth potential with execution risk.
Revised.
We recommend a phased international expansion.
Start with English speaking markets to minimize risk, then expand to more complex markets as you build
capabilities.
This approach balances growth potential with execution risk.
The revised version uses four sentences instead of one, but it's much easier to follow.
Each sentence makes one clear point, and the logic flows naturally from one sentence to the next.
But simplicity isn't just about word choice and sentence structure, it's also about information hierarchy.
In consulting presentations, you need to guide your audience's attention to what matters most.
This means being ruthless about what you include and what you leave out.
I'll use what I call the so what test for every piece of information in a presentation.
If I can't immediately explain why a particular data point or analysis matters to the business decision
at hand, it doesn't belong in the presentation.
It might be interesting.
It might be analytically sound, but if it doesn't advance the argument, it's clutter.
Let me give you a concrete example.
Suppose you're presenting a market entry strategy for a consumer goods company.
Your analysis might include dozens of data points market size, growth rates, competitive landscape,
regulatory environment, distribution channels, consumer preferences, pricing dynamics, and more.
The temptation is to include all of this analysis to demonstrate the thoroughness of your work, but
this approach overwhelms your audience and obscures your key insights.
Instead, you should include only the data points that directly support your recommendation.
If you're recommending entry into the premium segment, focus on premium market size, growth, and
competitive gaps.
If you're recommending a partnership strategy, focus on potential partners and their capabilities.
Everything else is supporting material that can be included in an appendix if needed.
This principle of information hierarchy also applies to slide design.
The most important information should be the most prominent.
Use font size, color, and positioning to guide your audience's eye to what matters most.
Here's a simple hierarchy for consulting slides one.
Slide title.
The key insight.
Largest font top of slide two main supporting points.
Medium font.
Prominent positioning three supporting data.
Smaller font.
Less prominent positioning four source citations.
Smallest font.
Bottom of slide.
Many consultants make the mistake of treating all information as equally important.
They use the same font size for everything.
Cram too much information onto each slide and wonder why their audience seems confused or disengaged.
Remember, your goal isn't to show how much you know.
It's to help your audience make better decisions.
Sometimes the most valuable thing you can do is tell them what they can safely ignore.
The principle of ruthless simplicity also applies to your overall presentation structure.
Most consulting presentations try to cover too much ground.
They include background information that the audience already knows, detailed methodology that doesn't
affect the recommendations, and comprehensive analysis that obscures the key insights.
Instead, structure your presentation around the minimum viable content needed to support your recommendations.
Start with your conclusions, then provide just enough supporting evidence to build confidence in those
conclusions.
Everything else should be available if asked but not included in your main presentation.
This approach requires confidence and discipline.
It means resisting the urge to show all your work.
It means trusting that your audience is smart enough to follow your logic without seeing every step
of your analysis.

--- Escape the Jargon Trap ---

One of the biggest obstacles to effective consulting communication is what I call the jargon trap.
The tendency to use corporate buzzwords and consulting speak instead of clear, direct language.
This happens for understandable reasons.
We want to sound professional.
We want to fit in with our clients, and we want to demonstrate our expertise.
But jargon actually undermines all of these goals.
Let me share a real example that illustrates this problem.
I once reviewed a presentation where a consulting team recommended that their client leverage synergistic
opportunities to optimize value creation through best in class operational excellence initiatives that
would enable sustainable competitive advantage in the evolving marketplace.
What did they actually mean?
Cut costs and improve quality to beat competitors?
But their jargon heavy version obscured this simple message and made them sound like they were trying
too hard to impress rather than trying to help.
The problem with business jargon isn't just that it's unclear.
It's that it signals lazy thinking.
When you say you want to leverage synergies, you're using a cliché.
Instead of explaining specifically how two things will work better together.
When you talk about best in class solutions, you're avoiding the hard work of defining what best actually
means in your client's context.
Here's a list of common consulting jargon and what you should say instead.
Instead of leverage as a verb, say use or apply instead of synergies, say.
Combined benefits.
Or be specific about what those benefits are.
The goal isn't to sound less sophisticated, it's to sound more human.
Remember, you're not writing for other consultants.
You're writing for business leaders who need to make decisions and take action.
They don't need to be impressed by your vocabulary.
They need to understand your recommendations.
This principle becomes even more important when you're presenting to international audiences or non-native
English speakers.
Jargon creates an additional barrier to understanding that can undermine your entire presentation.
I've seen brilliant recommendations fail because the audience couldn't get past the language to understand
the substance.
But avoiding jargon isn't just about word choice, it's about adopting a more direct communication style.
Instead of saying we have identified an opportunity to enhance customer engagement through the implementation
of digital touchpoint optimization, say we can increase customer satisfaction by improving your website
and mobile app.
The second version is not only clearer, it's more actionable because it tells the client specifically
what they need to do.
This principle of directness extends to how you structure your arguments.
Many consultants have been trained to build up to their recommendations, gradually presenting background,
then analysis, then conclusions.
But busy executives want the opposite approach.
They want your recommendations first, then the supporting logic.
Here's how this might work in practice.
Instead of this structure one.
Market Background and trends two.
Competitive analysis three.
Customer research findings four.
Strategic options evaluation five.
Recommended approach.
Use this structure one.
Recommended approach two.
Why this approach will work three.
How to implement it four.
Supporting analysis if needed.
This approach respects your audience's time and gives them the information they need to make decisions
quickly.
The tone you use in consulting presentations is just as important as the words you choose.
You want to sound confident, but not arrogant.
Knowledgeable but not condescending.
Professional but not robotic.
One of the biggest mistakes I see in consulting presentations is what I call hedge language.
Using words like potentially, possibly, might, and could to soften recommendations.
While it's important to acknowledge uncertainty, too much hedge language makes you sound unsure of
your own recommendations.
Compare these two versions.
Weak.
We believe that the company could potentially consider implementing a customer loyalty program that
might help to improve retention rates.
Strong.
We recommend implementing a customer loyalty program to increase retention by 15%.
The strong version doesn't claim certainty about the exact outcome, but it demonstrates confidence
in the recommendation.
If you're not confident enough to make a clear recommendation, you probably need to do more analysis.
Another common tone problem is what I call consultant speak.
Using passive voice and abstract language that creates distance between you and your recommendations.
This often happens when consultants are trying to sound objective, but it actually makes them sound
disengaged.
Compare these examples distant.
It has been determined that operational improvements should be implemented to achieve cost reductions.
Engaged.
We recommend three operational improvements that will reduce costs by $12 million annually.
The engaged version uses active voice and specific numbers to create confidence in the recommendation.
It also uses we to show that the consulting team stands behind their analysis.
This brings up an important point about pronoun usage in consulting presentations.
Many consultants avoid using you when addressing their clients, preferring more formal language like
the organization or the company.
But using you creates a more personal connection and makes your recommendations feel more relevant.
Compare these versions.
Formal.
The organization should consider expanding into new markets to achieve growth objectives.
Personal.
You should expand into new markets to achieve your growth objectives.
The personal version creates a direct connection between the recommendation and the audience.
It makes the presentation feel like a conversation rather than a lecture.
However, be careful about overusing I in consulting presentations.
While it's important to take ownership of your recommendations, the focus should be on your client's
business, not on your analysis.
Use we to refer to your team's work and you to refer to your client's actions.
The key to mastering tone in consulting presentations is to write as if you're having a conversation
with a respected colleague.
You want to be professional, but not stiff.
Confident but not arrogant.
Helpful but not condescending.
Read your presentations out loud to test the tone.
If it doesn't sound like something you would say in person, revise it until it does.

--- Why Writing Quality Matters in Business ---

Here's something that might surprise you readers form an opinion about your competence, attention to
detail, and professionalism within the first few sentences of your writing.
Research from the Harvard Business Review shows that executives spend an average of just 30s scanning
a business document before deciding whether to read it thoroughly or set it aside.
This means every word counts.
A single typo in a proposal can undermine your credibility.
Unclear instructions can lead to costly mistakes.
Overly casual language in a formal context can damage your professional image.
Let me share a powerful example.
Grammarly analyzed over 100,000 business documents and found that professionals who made fewer writing
mistakes were promoted more quickly and earned higher salaries.
The correlation was so strong that they could predict career advancement based on writing quality alone.
But here's the good news unlike many professional skills that take years to develop, writing skills
can be improved relatively quickly with the right techniques and consistent practice.
Before we move on, let's establish some fundamental practices that will serve you throughout this course.
Always identify your primary audience before you start writing.
Ask yourself who needs this information?
What do they already know?
What do they need to know?
How will they use this information?
Consider your secondary audiences as well.
Who else might see this message?
How might it be shared or forwarded?
What impression do you want to make on people who weren't your intended audience?
Define your purpose clearly.
Are you informing, persuading, instructing or documenting?
Your purpose should be obvious from the very first paragraph.
Choose the appropriate level of formality by considering your relationship with the reader, the norms
of your organization, and the subject matter itself.
Finally, plan for permanence.
In today's digital world, anything you write can be saved, forwarded, or resurfaced months later.
So write as if it will be and make sure it represents you well.

--- Standard vs. Variant English in Global Business ---

Let's address something that often causes confusion and even anxiety.
The idea of standard English versus variant English.
The truth is, there's no single universally accepted standard for business English.
What's considered standard in London might differ from what's standard in New York, Sydney or Singapore.
For many business professionals, this is actually liberating news, especially for those who worry
that their English isn't good enough for global business.
The reality is that English has become the world's lingua franca precisely because it's adaptable and
flexible.
Consider this Microsoft, one of the world's largest technology companies, employs people from over
190 countries.
Their internal communications reflect this diversity, blending American English, British English,
Indian English and many other variants.
What truly matters isn't conforming to one fixed standard, but being clear, professional, and appropriate
for your audience and context.
Still, there are a few principles that generally hold across most business environments.
Clarity is more important than complexity.
Being direct is usually better than being vague.
And a professional tone often matters more than perfect grammar.
These apply whether you're writing in American, British, or any other form of English.
Let me give you a simple example.
The word schedule is pronounced schedule in American English and schedule in British English, but in
writing the spelling stays the same and the meaning is clear no matter how you say it in your head.
The traditional distinction between native and non-native English speakers is becoming less relevant
in today's business world.
What really matters is how effectively you can communicate, and I've seen non-native speakers who write
more clearly and professionally than many native speakers.
In fact, non-native speakers often bring unique advantages to business communication.
They're typically more deliberate with their word choices, more mindful of grammar, and more aware
of how their message might be received.
Because they've learned English as a system, they often excel at explaining complex ideas clearly and
logically.
Take Satya Nadella, the CEO of Microsoft.
He grew up speaking Telugu and Hindi before learning English.
Yet his business communications are models of clarity and precision.
Or Sundar Pichai, the CEO of Google.
His presentations are regularly praised for being accessible, thoughtful and concise.
Effective Business English isn't about where or how you learn the language, it's about how well you
can use it to accomplish your professional goals.
Common problems with English for global business.
Now let's look at the real challenges that come with using English as the common language in global
business.
These issues affect both native and non-native speakers, and recognizing them will help you become
a more effective communicator.
The first challenge is cultural context.
Words and phrases that seem totally clear in one culture can be confusing or even offensive in another.
For instance, the American phrase let's table this discussion means to postpone it.
But in British English it means to bring it up for immediate discussion.
The same phrase, two completely opposite meanings.
I once saw this play out on a multinational project.
An American manager said the team should table the budget discussion.
The British team went and prepared detailed budget presentations for the next meeting.
Meanwhile, the Americans assumed the topic was shelved.
The mix up wasn't discovered until the meeting itself, causing delays and confusion.
The second challenge is differences in communication style, especially in terms of directness.
Some cultures like Germany's value very direct communication.
Others like Japan's, lean towards subtlety and nuance.
Even when everyone's speaking English, these cultural habits can lead to misunderstandings.
The third issue is idioms and colloquialisms.
Native English speakers often use phrases like slam dunk, circle back, or low hanging fruit.
Terms that might make no sense to those unfamiliar with American workplace slang.
Then there's technical jargon.
Every industry has its own set of terms, and when you combine that with cultural nuances and varying
levels of English proficiency, things can fall apart quickly.
Finally, there's the matter of formality.
What counts as appropriately professional in one setting might seem too casual or too stiff in another.
What works in a Silicon Valley startup might not fly in a London law firm.
This brings us to an important insight.
Every company should define its own version of business English.
That doesn't mean creating a rigid style guide that limits creativity.
It means setting clear expectations that help everyone communicate more effectively.
Start by thinking about your company's culture and values.
A fast moving startup might embrace informal, conversational language.
A law firm may prefer something more formal and structured.
A global enterprise might need to strike a balance that works across countries, teams and time zones.
You should also consider your industry norms.
Financial services firms usually prefer a more polished formal tone.
Creative agencies might lean into personality and storytelling.
Healthcare organizations need to combine professionalism with empathy.
Tech companies tend to favor clarity and brevity and think about your audience.
If your company regularly interacts with international clients or cross-cultural teams, you may need
to be extra mindful about idioms, tone, and structure.
Here's a practical starting point audit your current communications.
Review your best performing emails, reports, or presentations.
What tone works best?
What style feels natural yet professional?
Use those examples to shape your company's communication standards.
Many successful companies opt for simple guidelines over long rulebooks.
Buffer, a social media management firm, encourages employees to write like you're talking to a friend,
but remember, you're representing the company.
It's easy to follow and leaves room for individuality.
Salesforce.
Another example puts clarity and inclusiveness at the heart of their communication strategy.
They encourage plain language, minimal jargon, and awareness of how messages may be received by a
global audience.

--- Find the Right Data Quickly ---

To make data visualization work in a real management consulting project.
Another crucial step is to find the right data quickly, and I'll share with you some reliable data
sources on the market.
Firstly, previous projects consulting companies have the luxury of using data gathering for other projects
or even gathered from companies you work for.
Therefore, the more projects you do in a specific area or branch, the more private data you gather
and it becomes a competitive advantage.
Second, ready made reports on specific data.
You can find plenty of ready made reports for each and every industry.
In many cases, it's easier to buy the report than to try and gather this sort of data yourself.
Usually, it's a good starting point that you can later enrich.
You've got a lot of sites that gather data and create many reports or snippets like Statista, Trend
Economy, EMIs and many more.
Also have a look.
Wikipedia.
Surprisingly, a lot of data can be found there and links to sources raw data sources in this category.
You've got sites like Euromonitor, Statistical Institute and transactional data from stock exchanges
and quoted data, and Bloomberg and others reports of companies quoted on stock exchanges.
Every company on the stock exchange is obliged to publish their financial reports, and on top of that,
they usually publish annual reports, strategy overview, presentations and conferences from annual
shareholders meetings.
This is all very valuable source of Intel, provided you can find representatives of the branch you're
interested in.
IPO prospects are also very useful as they have in-depth analyses of the market and the competition.
Next up interviews with independent experts.
Quite often in consulting, you try and find an expert from a specific field.
And in bigger companies like McKinsey, you can find them within the company.
But in other cases you go through a network field research, especially store check or mystery shopping.
In many cases, official data isn't sufficient, so you've got to gather some yourself.
And a good example is comparing retail format or analysing sales densities and specific locations of
competition of your customer.
In those cases, you do store checks and mystery shopping estimation by proxy.
Many markets can't be observed.
There's no transparency of data.
Price lists have nothing to do with reality.
For those cases, you have to find a market that's observable and somehow connected to the market you're
researching.
You analyze the observable market and use some proxies and assumptions, and then you try to estimate
the target market.
And for this you'd use a bottom up approach and a top down approach.
Existing online data.
In this category you've got Facebook Audience Insight for detailed tool enabling segmentation and analysis
of cohorts.
Keyword Planner by Google to research the number of searches per keyword and categories done regularly.
SimilarWeb, which can give you an estimation of traffic bounce rate, spent time and source of traffic
for online businesses.
Google trends is a great place to find data on changes of searches in time, and Google Consumer Barometer
for extensive consumer research, which shows preferences of online customers.
Number nine previously recreated resources, especially ready made reports on SlideShare.
Interviews on YouTube.
You can find surprisingly large numbers of data prepared by other people as a part of research or offers
or conference material.
YouTube is a never ending source of movies showing specific concepts and businesses, but also giving
you an insight from CEOs of companies you're researching.
And of course, your own online and offline interviews.
And it's advisable after you've gathered a lot of knowledge on the market and you know exactly what
to ask about.

--- The “Kicker” – Reinforcing Your Key Message ---

A device which you might want to add to your slide is called a kicker.
These are used to add clarification, summarization, or the implications of information presented on
the slide.
If you take a look at a McKinsey deck, you'll often find the pages are quite dense, so it can be helpful
to remind the audience of the key point they want to take away from each page.
And these takeaways are often referred to as the so what or why should I care about these exhibits or
data?
A good test of whether a slide should be in your presentation or in the appendix, is whether you can
come up with a compelling so-what for the page.
And if you can't, consider putting that slide in the appendix.
This is partly for reasons related to impact, but also for managing the client.
Senior managers are trained to push consultants to answer the questions.
So what?
For each page, if the page doesn't say something clearly to the audience and you can't answer the so
what question, the slide needs to be taken out by having a kicker on a slide.
You're proving an answer to the so what question?
Having said this and explained how useful the kicker is, only limited offices at top firms such as
BCG and McKinsey actually use it.
Still, I strongly recommend it as a punchy one liner for the same reason that consultants use headlines.
Neither are mandatory, but they aid transition to the next storyline and give a natural flow.
This idea is not set in stone.
Of course you can decide what suits your presentation best.

--- Kicker Checklist ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Version Management (Tracking Changes) ---

Good presentations are events along the journey of change that require planning and can't be recycled.
This means that for a management consulting team, the work they do is focused on what's suitable for
the client at that point to change the direction of the company.
Since it's all about change, version control for change management is very important.
But what is version control?
Well, it's the management of multiple versions of the same document.
Version control enables consultants to tell one version of a document from another.
There are various options.
Consultants can choose to adopt a version.
Control their records.
Factors to consider include the number of iterations expected and the number of individuals involved
in the process.
For some documents, simple techniques are enough, such as the use of naming conventions.
For more complex and formal documents, a version control table is likely to be needed.
So first, let's look at file naming conventions.
At the simplest level, you can use file naming conventions to identify the version of a document.
Use the file name of the document to determine both the version and status alongside the subject.
For example, Corporate Strategy draft v 0.1 or Corporate Strategy final v 2.0.
When doing this convention, remember you must update the version number on the file name as well as
inside the document, i.e. in the header.
It's all too easy to update a document and forget to rename the version number on either the file name
or the document, and if you do this, it can lead to confusion later, and thus you don't need to keep
previous versions of the document.
You should always save updated versions as read only.
This will ensure you're forced to create a new version the next time you want to update it.
Using file name conventions by themselves will not tell you who made the changes and what was changed
though.
If these points are important, you should look to use a version control table.
Version numbering is an easy way to distinguish from one version of a document to another.
On some occasions, you might decide that a simple numbering system consisting of consecutive whole
numbers is sufficient, but other times, where there are numerous stages of development before a final
version is reached and may have input from multiple individuals, you might decide to adopt version
numbers to keep track of both minor and major changes to that document.
Minor revisions are small changes made to a document, and typically these will be for things like spelling
or grammar corrections.
Such changes can be noted by reflecting them in increments made to the decimal number.
Major revisions are revisions to a document that require that the document is re-approved, whether
that be by an individual or a group, and you can reflect major revisions by incrementing the whole
number by one.
Version control and document control tables.
Next.
Now we use these to provide historical data about each update made to a document.
It's useful to include the author, date, and notes about each change made, so you can refer back
to what the changes were.
And finally, I'll give you some of my best practices to use version management.
So for the document owner, when multiple parties are involved in drafting a document, one individual
should be nominated to manage the overall version control.
This role might require the collation of numerous versions of a document, with track changes and suggested
changes incorporated.
Keep draft versions.
Once you have a document which can be called final, a decision will need to be made about whether the
drafts can be kept or deleted.
In most cases, it should be perfectly possible to delete them once the final version of a document
has been agreed.
Doing so helps to reduce confusion, which can be caused by duplication of documents, and it reduces
the risk of earlier versions being mistaken for the final one.
But a good reason to keep drafts is if you think it's necessary to preserve a record of the process
of developing the document itself.
Doing this maintains a record of why particular changes were made, or potentially can be redeveloping
the document at a later date.
In terms of file storage in my phone will never copy the client's presentation or other confidential
files to a public cloud system like Dropbox or iCloud.
We use encrypted email or a portable disk, or a hard copy to pass the presentations to clients.

--- Prioritize Findings from Multiple Analyses ---

On a typical management consulting project, you'll have done a lot of analysis.
Consider deeply the problems done focus interviews, generated storyboards, conducted market surveys,
and done financial analysis with each hypothesis you have.
You will need to do analysis which involves these components.
When you present.
You won't include all your analysis from all of the hypotheses.
For example, you build your decision trees and you can't put five hypotheses to the test and five analyses
to present.
Of the five hypotheses you may only decide to discuss hypotheses is three, four, and five in your
presentation.
Of those three, you might only show one analysis.
The point to consider is that once you do the analysis, you have to consider which one needs to be
shown and the order in which to explain the issue you've identified.
In the solution, you're recommended.
Consider how do they enhance that storyline?
So it's crucial to learn how to prioritize, especially when you're up against a deadline.
During a project, a management consultant can almost analyze every aspect of an organization, but
the majority of that analysis makes no or little impact on your objective functions.
So don't boil the ocean.
With this in mind, I suggest you first collect a list of all your analysis.
You should bring together everything which could possibly be considered as getting done in a presentation.
At this stage, don't worry about the order or the number of items, but next, look at what's urgent
versus important.
See if it's crucial analysis or a decision that needs immediate attention.
You should list it in your presentation and consider moving this piece of information into the Key Findings
section.
If you believe the item is important but not urgent, consider where you could put it in the storyline.
When content isn't important but quite urgent, it can be tough to decide where it's suitable.
I tend to suggest moving it to a non-critical and non-urgent area.
Finally, it's quite straightforward.
The analysis is neither important nor urgent.
I'll take it out of my storyline and put it in the appendix, or even completely remove the section.
Thirdly, assess the value.
And by this I mean consider the order of the slides.
As general practice, you want to recognise exactly which types of tasks have top priority and come
over the others.
Let's take a look at an example.
In McKinsey's USPS presentation, there are two sets of recommendation, one including standard actions
and one including fundamental change actions.
Of the two, the more powerful is the set of fundamental change actions.
The two sets are in and not an or in the sense that both can be implemented to help improve USPS profitability.
Additionally, one set need not be completed before the next one, so sequential order is not required.
But fundamental change is a hard pill to swallow.
A key principle in storytelling is that characters always take the minimum conservative action, given
the circumstances in which they find themselves.
A hero will take radical, life threatening actions, but only if there are no viable alternatives.
This principle determines ordering for the USPS resolution.
Organizations always start fixing problems by taking standard actions.
They pursue fundamental change when the standard actions fail to achieve the necessary results.
So, due to risk aversion, McKinsey started with actions within USPS control.
Standard actions as shown in this slide.
The remainder of the resolution section is structured using most, if not all, of the key principles
used to structure the situation section, including.
Bottom line up front messaging, story centric progression, and depth order tree traversal.
Since there is considerable content here, I've broken the flow up into two pieces the hierarchy.
Exploring standard change actions is the one provided here.
This slide provides the bottom line up front impact of reducing cumulative losses from 238 billion to
115 billion through standard actions within USPS control.
That information triggers the question what standard actions achieve this and how much does each contribute
to reducing the loss?
This one provides the answer with four groups of standard actions plus avoided interest due to reduced
debt.
One would have started with productivity improvements, as they offer the largest impact and sequential
and emotional order is required.
Here.
Slides 24 to 26 detail the key actions to achieve, respectively product and service initiatives, productivity
improvements and workforce flexibility, and procurement optimization.
I think this is a great example of how we prioritize our analyses and present findings based on financial
impact in a real project.

--- Using an Appendix Effectively ---

By now, you should know that the goal is to keep your slides simple and easy to understand.
This is critical to making a presentation, which is easy for the audience to follow.
The temptation will always be there to pack slides full of data to support your headlines and suggestions,
but this is not needed.
This is where the appendix comes in.
Even if you know that during the presentation meeting, you'll need a lot of supporting data to deal
with questions you anticipate.
You don't need to put it in your main slides.
You can keep it in the appendix.
By doing so, you'll avoid overloading your main slides.
I guarantee if you don't do this, you'll overwhelm your audience and they won't get the ultimate message
you're trying to convey.
Appendix slides at the end of the deck are where to put your supporting materials.
It's those points which didn't fit in the narrative of your presentation, but are valid and useful
to your case.
They can take the form of all types of things, whether that be data, testimonials, process maps,
or additional charts.
Essentially, it's anything which could be useful to back up what you're saying in the main body of
the presentation.
Having the appendix gives you that backup source which you can turn to as and when needed during the
Q&amp;A or conversation with the client.
Post presentation.
The key point to the appendix there is a backup, so you can focus your main slides on the story and
the big picture.

--- Including Legal Disclaimers ---

You finally finish sorting through a bunch of layered graphics, headlines, kickers and text, but
you'll still possibly missing an important part of your presentation, which is a disclaimer.
Disclaimers have a unique place in presentations, particularly in professional or conference presentations,
because they protect both the presenter and the event host from legal liabilities arising from the content
of the presentation.
Our consulting firms, we usually have a big legal team to help us work out the formal legal disclaimer
for our presentation.
We just need to remember where, when, and how to insert it into our final keynotes to protect intellectual
property and limit your legal liability.
Almost by definition, persuasive presentations contain material nonpublic information valuable to any
third party looking to gain an edge, including investors, competitors, suppliers and even customers.
For this reason, it's a good idea to include a notice of confidentiality and non-disclosure, as Accenture
have done in this slide.
Of course, as with all legal matters, consult an attorney for language and the required practices
to adequately protect your intellectual property.
For instance, some jurisdictions may require specific language in the footer of every slide.
If your jurisdiction does not provide protection, or if you waive that protection implicitly or explicitly,
there's no need to delay the start of the story with legalese.
The deliberative process privilege referred to by Accenture is a common law principle that protects
information concerning internal processes from public disclosure, even though taxpayer money funded
the work.
However, I'm able to reproduce their presentation here because I obtained permission from the consulting
firm and from the United States Postal Service.
In addition, because my intent is for publication, for critical and educational purposes, I'm protected
under the fair use provision of United States copyright law.
I mention this because you need to be very careful about reproducing material you find.
Attribution, though always required, may be insufficient.
When in doubt, ask an attorney or find an unambiguously legal alternative.
Titled about this document in this slide protects Accenture from legal liability by framing the presentation
as information rather than advice.
To that end, the title of disclaimer would be more accurate.
I find this sort of hedge disingenuous, like fortune tellers claiming their services are for entertainment
purposes only, or skydiving outfits requiring liability waivers.
But if this tactic provides legal protection in certain jurisdictions, far be it from me to recommend
otherwise.
Such language is typically not required for presentations developed and delivered internally.

--- Choosing a Presentation Theme ---

In a big firm, you don't really need to design any specific presentation by yourself, because we're
usually backed with a digital design team that helps us create a theme in an easy to understand and
convincing manner.
McKinsey even bought itself a top design firm a couple of years ago.
This deal shows us a well-established trend.
Big companies pay big bucks for design expertise because the business world is converging and consumer
experience has to be seamless.
Strategic firms will bring more design capabilities to pieces of strategy and operations, but we need
to know the ground rules that drive the psychology behind great product design.
Just in case you're working in a boutique firm or a startup.
So in this lecture, we'll talk about presentation theme themes give you a consistent approach for your
presentation, and if you plan on designing them any more frequently than once in a blue moon, you
ought to look into creating your own.
Now, all of the applications that I'm aware of actually ship with some default theme, and this one
here in Microsoft PowerPoint, you can see there's a wide range.
There's even a separate application that contains themes specifically for keynote.
But I've already chosen this wide format one here, just simple black.
And if I show you what's contained in there, it's essentially a bunch of different masters and you
can create all your own masters.
So you choose whichever you want and build these things out and make them your own.
What I recommend, though, is that when you do pick some of these themes, you filter through the content
that's in there and see if you really do want some of it, such as bulleted lists, some of which go
to very, very deep levels.
And elsewhere in the course it's discussed that lots and lots of bullets do not a happy presentation
make.
Some of these layouts are a touch cheesy here, but I don't think this particular one has been changed
for quite some time.
But basically use the framework that exists there, change it to suit your own purposes, and then you've
got something you can repurpose quickly whenever you need it.

--- Choosing Effective Colors ---

Choosing colors can be one of the trickier topics in designing presentations, and you may have the
task of choosing your own colors.
Personally, I look for associations of particular industries, practices, or cultures have with certain
colors, and you may have noticed this presentation has a predominantly blue look to the backgrounds.
And there are a couple of reasons for that choice.
Apart from the fact that globally blue is considered a positive color.
It's, after all, the color of a sunny sky and the pictorial representation color of the ocean.
But in Western cultures, one of the associations with blue is business.
There are others like trust, security, faith, and so on.
And the other association I'm using here, probably obvious in the moment because of the white grid
lines in the background, is that of a blueprint which is commonly linked with construction design.
Now, not everyone has the luxury of choosing their own colors.
You may have to deal with a corporate style guide that includes specific colors or a single color to
be used in your presentations.
You may have to adhere to that very rigidly, and it means you're only.
Latitude is to use tints and shades to add your own variation, but always check with your branding
department or person first.
So beyond that, if you're able to design your own color theme, the first thing you'll need to do is
pick a base color and then find 2 to 4 colors that go well with your choice.
Ideally, you'll need some hue and or tonal variations on the base color, and then 1 or 2 accent colors
that go well with it, but are used sparingly, so they really draw attention.
You can use black and white additionally if you need to.
So how do you go about doing this without spending a significant amount of time in training?
Well, luckily for you, there are a number of websites that can help you.
Let's just take a look at a few of those now.
So this website is color adobe.com and I love this.
You can enter a base color either by entering specific values or a hexadecimal value, or you can use
this slider if you're thinking you want something that goes well with this particular blue, for example,
and then just tap generate and it generates you a whole bunch of different themes there, and you can
download them in a number of ways.
Colors.
And this I really like.
It's effortless.
You can just enter a value if you want and loads of other things besides, but just tap the spacebar
and have themes generated for you, which is great, especially if you have no idea where you're going
to go with it.
And you can also see there are tints and shades here as well.
Loads of different variations.
Great site.
So there you are.
You can see you've got a number of different tools to help you make reasonable colour choices.
The only thing I'd keep in mind though, is be careful with tints and shades at their extremes, as
very light and very dark colours can shift to black or white when they're being projected.

--- Core Design Principles ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Font Selection Basics ---

Our choice of fonts should be informed by your mood boards and research into your audience.
Start by choosing a suitable typeface or font for your headline, because headline text should be the
most present text on your slide.
And also, headlines should be the largest text on your slides.
If you're going to use subheadings, then change the size there so it's slightly inferior to the headline.
For example, I tend to make mine optically around 55 to 65% of the headline size.
I call that a generous half.
Also, if you're using subheadings, you may consider using a contrasting font to create some visual
interest.
This is called font pairing, and so you don't have to get too deep into the weeds of typography.
There are a number of websites and services you can use to help get an idea of how font pairing works.
Just simply search font pairing and you'll get results.
And one of those I'm sure will be suitable for you to learn more about it.
Now, there aren't really any rules for type on slides as such, but there are some guidelines to follow
borrowed from the world of graphic design.
First, use an absolute maximum of three fonts, and if you can have a font with several different weights.
For example, heavy, medium, and light use stylistic changes with those to make them vary in size
and weight throughout your hierarchy.
Stylistic changes for fragments of your text, like bold and italic, don't figure into that equation.
Use a type hierarchy as required by your presentation.
So if you think it needs one, use one.
Because that way the audience doesn't have to question if they're seeing a title, a subheading, or
a caption.
Then a main rule is limit the amount of text you have on your slides, especially bullet points, because
they can be distracting and always try and prefer images over text.
If you can validate your font size, this is great advice.
If your font size is too small, you're dead.
You'll look foolish.
Remember, people are seeing it for the first time and not everyone has good eyesight.
Go to the venue for a dry one.
Or as Guy Kawasaki famously said, a good rule of thumb for font size is to divide the oldest investor's
age by two and use that.
Compatibility is another issue you need to consider if you'll be sending out a document that people
will be reading on their computer.
Not every computer can read every font out there, and if the computer can't read the font, either
the text won't render it, or it will swap in another one and render your careful selection of the font
redundant in the first place.
You'd argue that cooler and more unique fonts may help grab attention, but most of the time they're
not as easy to read, so you should use them minimally, which in turn helps to maintain their impact.
That's some conservative fonts like Calibri and Verdana are always my favorite.
They convey trustworthiness and a stable image, which this might be boring to some and use whitespace.
Nancy Duarte calls this breathing room, and it's something consultants are uniquely bad at.
Look at this one slide from Deloitte that I dug up here.
This is busy and confusing.
They'd have been better showing a fraction of the information and letting it speak for itself.
This is a perfect example of what not to do.
My personal advice is that unless you're an expert designer, use exactly two standard fonts in your
presentation, one for slide titles and one for body text slide titles.
Critical as they are, demand attention in a large, bold, high contrast sans serif font.
Standard sans serif fonts like Arial, Helvetica, and Century Gothic lack the little tails that help
connect letters throughout the USPS presentation.
Accenture uses standard capitalization for slide titles.
I prefer title capitalization, but either stylistic treatment will do.
Since slide title should be stated as complete sentences, they may span up to two lines.
Body text should be in a more readable serif font, since there is usually much more of it compared
to title text.
Standard serif fonts include.
Times New Roman and Georgia use fonts large enough to be read.
If you project your presentation on a screen, words must be legible to people seated at the back of
the room.
In most cases, this means title text of at least 36 point and body text of at least 24 point venture
seems to have dipped below this font size, considered the minimum for projected presentations, giving
the firm the benefit of.
Perhaps their presentation is really a report intended for close reading, and therefore this warrants
a smaller size font.

--- Font Size Guidelines ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Typography & Font Standards ---

All text should be black by default, with bold formatting used strategically to highlight key information.
This might seem conservative, but black text on white backgrounds provides maximum contrast and readability
across all viewing conditions.
Color should be reserved for data visualization elements rather than text formatting.
When you do use colored text, it should serve a specific purpose, perhaps matching text color to corresponding
chart elements, or using your company's brand colors for headers.
McKinsey presentations typically use a four color system for data visualization.
First, fill color, primary data series or most important category.
Second fill color.
Secondary data series or comparison category third fill color, tertiary data series or supporting information.
Fourth fill color.
Additional categories or background information.
This system ensures that your most important data stands out visually, while maintaining enough color
variation to distinguish between different categories or data series.
Your color choices must work for audience members with different types of color vision, and must remain
clear when printed in black and white.
This means avoiding color combinations that rely solely on hue differences like red and green, and
ensuring sufficient contrast between different elements when using colored backgrounds or fills.
Remember to adjust font color to white when necessary to maintain readability.
This is particularly important for darker background colors where black text would be difficult to read.
Let's examine the specific formatting requirements that ensure your presentations meet professional
standards.
Every slide should follow a consistent layout template with standardized margins, spacing, and element
positioning.
The exhibit title should be positioned consistently across all slides.
Legends should appear in the same location and footnotes should be aligned uniformly.
Spacing between elements should be consistent and purposeful.
Two little spacing creates visual clutter.
Too much spacing can make slides appear incomplete or unprofessional.
The goal is to create visual rhythm that guides your audience through your content logically.
Tables require special attention to formatting details.
Numbers should be right aligned with each other, but left aligned with column headers.
Individual boxes should be used for each number to ensure proper alignment.
Column headers should use sentence case and bold formatting.
All rows and columns should be aligned both horizontally and vertically.
Totals should be double checked for accuracy.
These standards ensure that your tables are easy to read and that numerical relationships are immediately
apparent.
Legends should follow McKinsey format standards with clear, descriptive labels that help your audience
understand your data visualization.
Stickers should be positioned above legends and should clearly indicate the status or qualification
of your content.

--- Using Images Effectively ---

Images more than text or tables or graphs are the first elements on a slide your audience will notice,
so it's your duty to ensure all images add constructively to the story you're telling.
If not, leave them off.
Many years ago, office supply stores stocked shelves filled with CD-ROMs of clip art images.
These types of images became so popular that thousands of them ultimately came bundled with presentation
design software.
Today, most people over the age of ten wouldn't dream of including a clip art image, certainly not
in a persuasive business presentation.
And yet the more things change, the more they stay the same.
The modern version of randomly placing clip art on a slide is randomly copying and pasting images from
the internet that literally or metaphorically represent a concept.
As much as I appreciate Mackenzie's storytelling and expert graphic design, this slide exemplifies
the merely decorative use of images.
Although we use two terms interchangeably when we refer to images, generally we're talking about photos,
and graphics are elements that have been made either in a graphics program or by hand.
Illustration is where the two terms get blurred because they do appear as an image, but they're quite
often made from photos and graphic elements at the same time.
Again, you'd like to insert images.
Please make sure they add constructively to the story.
There are three image formats you can use easily in presentation.
The first and the one you're most likely I would have thought to be most familiar with is JPEG, which
is typically used for photographic content.
Then we have PNG, which is used for both graphics and photos, especially where transparency is required
because it supports that and it's got quite a high fidelity output.
Finally, there's GIF, which is typically used for graphics.
There's also an animated variant available, but you'll have to see if it's supported in your program
of choice.
To be honest though, I've never used any GIFs in any presentations during my whole career.
If you want to use them, just a small handful of tips for you.
Working with images.
First of all, don't forget you can crop your image to suit your purpose.
Make more of the subject if there is too much image around it.
You can see here that cropping this down makes it a much more suitable image, and you can always make
your own rule of thirds grid to help with that.
And you can see in an earlier movie around layouts an example.
And here's one made from rectangles with no fill but a stroke.
And it's really simple.
It helps to establish a pleasing composition.
The second tip is don't steal images off the internet.
Wikimedia Commons If you do need something, has a large collection of images, some of which can be
used in presentations and elsewhere.
But check the license before you use any files.
And also, it's worth keeping in mind that as they're freely available, someone else has probably used
them, including any competitors you may have.
Again, never use copyrighted images unless you've bought a license to use them.
Don't simply go to Google to find an image thinking nobody can track it to you.
It's wrong to use copyrighted images.
And remember, consulting firms are all about being ethical.
And the final tip is don't use any nasty old clipart, especially from office.
It's so last century and nothing screams amateur more than using clipart like this one on the screen.
Now there are lots of much more modern graphic assets available, and they're reasonably priced or free
to.

--- Using Video in Slides ---

I've got three simple nuggets of wisdom for you when you're including video in your presentation.
And to keep with the theme, let's count them down.
Thirdly, only include video in your presentation if it helps the audience to understand.
And I know I've said that a lot throughout the course, but it's the primary thing you need to consider.
Only use anything if it helps them to understand.
Second, set the video to autoplay on the slide it resides on to prevent that awkward moving to the
play button.
And oh, where's it gone moment.
The number of times I've seen people struggle to actually get a video to play from a slide.
So there's an autoplay.
Use it.
It makes it easier for you, and you're unlikely to spin out because something's gone wrong.
And the first one is, if you get a chance before your presentation, run the video if possible, on
your machine.
I just help them show with frame caching just so it's all there.
Whenever I've had problems with a video, which isn't very often, to be quite frank, it's always been
helped if I've played it before.
Personally, I do use it quite a lot in presentations, but mainly in looping intros built for audiences
as attendees take their seats.
It's really a simple way of creating looping content for the start of a show, without getting into
complex arrays of slides and slide groups and so on.

--- Managing Slide Backgrounds ---

Backgrounds are, as the name would suggest, the backdrop to your slide environment and there should
be subtle and simple.
What you definitely don't want are other elements competing with the background.
The background should support elements of your presentation.
So what to use?
Well, solid colors work well for just about everything, and if you need an accent for the color,
there may be a simple shape or a line that would work, or perhaps an unobtrusive graphic element image
background should be avoided, except in very special circumstances where they may be appropriate.
And even then, it's probably a good idea to make them less opaque and neutralize their colors.
While we're on the subject of effective backgrounds, notice that Accenture's slide has a solid background.
Any pattern or image in the background, no matter how subtle, draws the reader's eye away from the
text and makes it less readable.
If a textured background has critical meaning, by all means use it.
But if it's purely decorative, eliminated.
Once again, I'm going to fault BCG this time for embedding its company logo in a massive font into
the background of every slide.
USPS paid for this presentation to address their plight, so it seems like an inappropriate design choice,
conveying no small amount of hubris.
In contrast, Accenture placed a diminutive version of its logo in the slide footer, a best practice
of maximizing readability while gently reminding the reader of the slides creator.
The bottom right and bottom left are the subtlest locations to place a logo.
My best advice is to use white as a background color, as it's easy to combine other presentation elements.
The next one is texture backgrounds.
If they're going to be used, it's probably a good idea to dial them back.
And if you can't do that in the software, perhaps overlay them with a semi-transparent colored block
as is happening just here, but just tone them back a bit so there's subtle background there.
Nothing too much.
I love it when I get to use.
These are gradient fills and there's a different array of gradient fillers.
You can use linear or radial ones like this.
And they can really put a spotlight on your content.
But be careful of the colors though.
If they're too soft, the gradient might well get washed out.
If you're using an uncalibrated display or projector, and it's always worth contacting the AV tech
at your venue if that's at all possible, and get advice from them first.
If there's anything you can do to work together before you actually start the process.
If you're having difficulty in finding the right background image for your content, or you think testing
different background settings are too time consuming.
My advice is just to keep your background simple.
A white solid background will do the job.

--- Adding Animations Wisely ---

Transitions are generally the name for the animation or effect that goes between slides and animations,
and they normally refer to things that are on slides.
But you could use these things interchangeably because so many things like the Morph Effect and PowerPoint
and magic move in Apple keynote really are a hybrid between animation and transition.
Like many things in life, there are transitions and perhaps not so good transitions.
So make sure your animation choice looks natural and controlled.
The movement should seem, as everyone would expect, not busy and frenetic.
As a management consultant, we really try to limit the number of animations because our target audience
is our C-level executives.
They don't like too many moving objects in a presentation and build a reveal slide content progressively,
either on click or after a user specified time delay.
One can simulate a build by adding content one piece at a time to a sequence of slides, but that poses
the challenge of keeping everything identical during updates and edits.
I think animation and transition usually works really well if you're broadcasting dense content to students.
You can use features like text fade, reveal, disappear, and it grabs more attention.

--- Pacing the Information Flow ---

Though we don't use animation much, management consultants usually use the most basic animation to
pace information flow.
For example, glance at the graph below for two seconds only, then read on.
How much information did you get from that quick glance?
The answer is probably not a lot.
Now study it for as long as it takes to work out what it's trying to say.
Now, it took longer than two seconds, I'm sure, but you assimilated more information in a presentation.
It's the presenter who controls the pace, not the audience.
The presenter decides when to click to the next slide, often regardless of the audience.
There are therefore three characteristics that give our presentations impact.
The first is that the amount of information is limited.
The second is that the pace of the information is strictly controlled.
And the third is that it's laid out in order to assist assimilation.
Now look at the next sequence.
The images appear and the patter is typed next to each build.
What I'm about to show you is sales revenue for the last 18 months.
The scales here show $0 to $1 million.
Then we left click.
Look at the revenue projection before we factored in the influence of project and then click.
Now look at our actual sales revenue figures.
With the project click.
The impact of project X was therefore this area here click.
I therefore submit that project X has cost the business far more than it was worth.
Less information presented at the right speed to ensure assimilation.
The ability to design a slide so as to ensure a smooth presentation of the information is a core skill.
By building the slides with this number of clicks, we force the audience to focus on the right things.
All right, I believe we've covered a lot in the do section.
We've talked about how to craft key messages, body and kickers, as well as data visualization and
presentation design.
In the next chapter, we're going to go to the check phase.
Let's learn how management consultants review and check their slides to make sure everything works together
well.

--- Using Narrative Structure to Make Your Insights Actionable ---

The most effective way to present data driven insights is through narrative structure.
Instead of presenting a series of disconnected analyses, weave your findings into a coherent story
that builds toward your recommendations.
Here's a framework for data driven storytelling in consulting presentations.
Set up.
Establish the business context and why the analysis matters.
Conflict.
Present the key challenges or opportunities revealed by your data resolution.
Show how your recommendations address these challenges.
For example, in a cost reduction project set up, rising input costs and competitive pressure are squeezing
margins across the industry.
Conflict.
Our analysis reveals that your cost structure is 15% higher than best in class competitors, primarily
due to procurement inefficiencies and operational complexity.
Resolution A focused cost reduction program targeting these two areas can restore competitive cost position
and improve margins by 300 basis points within 18 months.
This narrative structure helps your audience understand not just what the data shows, but why it matters
and what they should do about it.

--- The Anatomy of Actionable Recommendations ---

Effective implementation plans share several key characteristics.
They are specific, measurable, time bound, and assign clear ownership.
But most importantly, they connect each action to the business outcome it's designed to achieve.
Let me show you the difference between weak and strong implementation recommendations.
Weak.
Improve customer service capabilities to enhance satisfaction and retention.
This recommendation is too vague to be actionable.
It doesn't tell the client what specific actions to take, who should take them, or when they should
be completed.
Strong.
Launch a 90 day customer service improvement program led by the VP of operations, focusing on three
initiatives.
Reduce average call wait time to under two minutes through additional staffing.
Implement new CRM system to improve first call resolution by 25%, and establish monthly customer feedback
reviews with senior leadership.
The strong version provides specific actions, clear ownership, defined timelines, and measurable
outcomes.
A client could start implementing this recommendation immediately.

--- Writing for Different Stakeholder Groups ---

Effective consulting presentations typically include implementation guidance at three levels strategic,
tactical, and operational strategic level.
This addresses the big picture questions of resource allocation, organizational changes, and timeline
priorities.
Strategic recommendations might include budget requirements, organizational restructuring, or major
system implementations.
Example allocate $15 million over 18 months to digital transformation, with 60% focused on customer
facing technologies and 40% on internal process automation.
Tactical level.
This breaks down strategic initiatives into specific work streams and milestones.
Tactical recommendations provide the project management framework for implementation.
Example.
Execute digital transformation through four parallel Workstreams customer portal development months
1 to 12 mobile app launch month 6 to 15, process Automation month 3 to 18 and Employee Training month
9 to 18.
Operational level.
This provides the detailed next steps that can be implemented immediately.
Operational recommendations should be specific enough that someone could start working on them the next
day.
Example week one establish project management office and hire digital transformation.
Lead week two conduct vendor selection process for customer portal development.
Week three begin requirements gathering with key stakeholders.
One of the challenges in writing implementation plans is that different stakeholders need different
levels of detail.
The CEO wants to understand resource requirements and timeline.
The project manager needs detailed task lists and dependencies.
The frontline employees need to understand how their daily work will change.
The solution is to structure your implementation recommendations hierarchically, starting with high
level summaries and drilling down to specific details.
Here's how this might work for a cost reduction program.
Executive Summary Implement $50 million cost reduction program over 12 months through procurement optimization.
60% of savings operational efficiency 30% and organizational restructuring 10%.
Program overview three Workstreams will deliver cost savings.
Procurement team will renegotiate top 20 supplier contracts and consolidate vendors operations.
Team will implement lean manufacturing principles in five key facilities.
HR will manage voluntary separation program and span of control optimization.
Detailed Action Plan Month one procurement analysis of current contracts and vendor performance operations.
Assessment of manufacturing efficiency opportunities HR design a voluntary separation package and communication
plan.
This structure allows each stakeholder to find the level of detail they need, without overwhelming
them with information that isn't relevant to their role.

--- Recap: What Makes a McKinsey-Style Slide So Effective? ---

When you look at any professional consulting presentation, you'll notice that every slide follows a
consistent structure.
This isn't by accident.
It's the result of decades of refinement in how to communicate complex business insights clearly and
persuasively.
The McKinsey Standard Elements framework consists of six key components that work together to create
what they call one clear message per exhibit.
Let me walk you through each element and explain why it's crucial for effective business communication.
At the top of every slide, you'll find what McKinsey calls the message title.
This isn't just a heading, it's the interpretation of your data.
Instead of writing sales data for Q3, a McKinsey style message title would read sales of Froglets have
doubled in the last five years.
The first is just a label.
The second tells you exactly what the data means.
When a busy executive glances at your slide, they should immediately understand your key findings without
having to interpret charts or dig through numbers.
The message title does the analytical work for them.
In real business scenarios, this principle has proven invaluable.
Consider a product team at a major tech company trying to fix a broken onboarding flow.
They could present a slide titled User drop off data with a spreadsheet full of numbers, but following
McKinsey principles, they would instead title their slide.
Users abandon onboarding at the payment verification step, costing us $2.3 million annually.
Suddenly, what was once just data becomes an urgent business priority that demands immediate attention.
The exhibit title describing your content.
Below the message title, you'll find the exhibit title which describes the content of your visualization.
This serves as a bridge between your key message and the actual data presentation.
Using our Froglets example, while the message title tells us that sales of Froglets have doubled in
the last five years, the exhibit title might read sales of Froglets millions 2001 2005.
This dual title approach ensures clarity at multiple levels.
Your audience gets the insight immediately from the message title, then understands exactly what data
supports that insight from the exhibit title.
It's a system that respects both the need for quick comprehension and detailed understanding.
One of the most distinctive elements of McKinsey presentations is the sticker, a small box that provides
qualification of the content.
You might see labels like preliminary, confidential or draft.
This element serves multiple purposes.
It manages expectations, provides legal protection, and demonstrates professional transparency about
the status of your analysis in business contexts.
This level of transparency builds trust when you're presenting early findings to stakeholders.
Marking your slides as preliminary allows you to share insights while making it clear that further analysis
may refine or change your conclusions.
This approach encourages collaborative discussion rather than premature decision making.
Every effective chart needs a legend that defines shadings, colors, and symbols.
But McKinsey takes this further by ensuring that legends are not just functional, but strategic.
Colors and patterns are chosen deliberately to support the story you're telling.
For example, in a chart showing market performance across different regions, you might use green for
outperforming markets, yellow for stable markets, and red for underperforming ones.
At the bottom of every slide, you'll find the source attribution.
This element is crucial for credibility and allows others to verify or build upon your analysis.
McKinsey presentations typically show sources like source company interviews, McKinsey analysis, or
source industry reports team analysis.
This transparency is particularly important in business settings, where decisions have significant
financial implications when presenting to boards or investors.
Clear source attribution demonstrates the rigor of your analysis and allows stakeholders to assess the
reliability of your conclusions.
Finally, footnotes provide space for essential context definitions or caveats that don't fit in the
main presentation, but are necessary for complete understanding.
These might include methodological notes, data limitations, or important assumptions underlying your
analysis.
The power of this structured approach becomes clear when you consider how it transforms data consumption.
Instead of forcing your audience to decode charts and draw their own conclusions, you're providing
a complete analytical package that guides them from insight to understanding to action.
This framework has been tested in countless boardrooms, client presentations, and strategic planning
sessions.

--- Recap: Four Principles That Turn Data Into Strategic Action ---

Now that we understand the structural elements of professional presentations, let's explore what we're
actually trying to achieve when we create data visualizations.
McKinsey has identified four fundamental principles that separate good presentations from great ones
one.
Clear message per exhibit simplicity and consistency in format readability, and the philosophy that
less is always more.
Let me show you how each principle works and why it matters in real business contexts.
The first principle is perhaps the most important.
Every slide should communicate exactly one clear message.
How many times have you seen slides crammed with multiple charts, competing headlines, and conflicting
data points?
Consider this real world example a streaming service was analyzing viewer behavior to improve content
recommendations.
Their initial presentation included a slide with four different charts showing viewing patterns, demographic
breakdowns, subscription trends, and content preferences.
The slide was titled Q3 Viewer Analysis.
While technically accurate, this approach forced executives to do the analytical work themselves.
Following McKinsey principles, they redesigned the presentation with four separate slides, each with
a clear message.
Weekend viewers binge watch 40% more content than weekday viewers.
Viewers aged 2534 drive 60% of our premium subscription growth.
Drama series generate the highest engagement rates, and personalized recommendations increase viewing
time by 23%.
Each slide supported a specific strategic decision about content acquisition, marketing focus, or
product development.
This transformation illustrates why the one message principle is so powerful.
When you force yourself to identify the single most important insight from your data, you're doing
the hard work of analysis.
You're moving from data presentation to strategic communication.
The second principle focuses on format consistency and simplicity.
This means using the same visual elements for the same meanings throughout your presentation, maintaining
consistent sizing and positioning, and avoiding unnecessary complexity in business presentations.
This principle is equally crucial when you're presenting quarterly results to a board of directors.
Consistency in how you show growth rates, market share data, and financial metrics allows your audience
to quickly compare across time periods and business units.
They're not wasting mental energy figuring out new chart formats.
They're focusing on the strategic implications of your data.
The third principle emphasizes readability, ensuring that your message and content conform to create
maximum clarity.
This goes beyond just using readable fonts.
It's about creating a visual hierarchy that guides your audience through your argument logically and
efficiently.
Readability and data presentation means several things.
First, your charts should be large enough and clear enough that people in the back of the room can
understand them.
Second, your color choices should work for people with different types of color vision.
Third, your data labels should be positioned to minimize confusion and maximize comprehension.
But readability also has a strategic dimension.
When McKinsey presents to fortune 500 CEOs.
They know their audience might have only minutes to grasp complex market dynamics or operational challenges.
Every element of their slides is designed to accelerate understanding, not showcase analytical sophistication.
The fourth principle, Less is Always More, is perhaps the most challenging to implement because it
requires discipline and strategic thinking about what not to include.
This principle recognizes that attention is a finite resource, and that every additional element on
your slide competes for that attention.
This doesn't mean oversimplifying your analysis or hiding important nuances.
Instead, it means being strategic about what belongs in your main presentation versus what should be
available in appendices or follow up discussions.
The compound effect of these principles.
When these four principles work together, they create presentations that don't just inform, they persuade
and inspire action.
Your audience leaves with a clear understanding of what the data means, what decisions need to be made,
and what actions should be taken.
This is why McKinsey's approach has been so influential across industries.

--- Bonus Lecture – Halfway Celebration & Free Gift ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Slide Chooser (Selecting the Right Slide Type) ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Guiding Principle When Facing a Tight Deadline ---

When you're writing, remember it's all about your audience, not you.
Consider what your audience wants to get out of it.
It's tough to explain why good corporate strategy deliverables often produce less but have more substance.
You organize the findings by insights, form the contents by findings.
But the audience may not be focused on the substance.
They're more interested in the findings.
So you need to focus on high level editing of the words you use and deploying the active voice.
Ensure the body of each slide supports the headline.
Make sure the headlines aren't small and you use dashes, kickers, and so on to break down the text
into easily digestible bites.
Put in charts that help you explain a point more easily, but don't add images just for the sake of
it.
When doing all of this, don't forget you must be telling a good story.
Get feedback from your team.
Invite others to comment on what you're doing and make sure you're doing it with suitable tools in place
for them to provide you this feedback.
And then you should review it.
Verify the slides, clearly answer the questions you want and that the points are made clearly.
Practice what you'll say.
It's not enough to just have good slides.
You need to make sure you have a good way of presenting them.

--- Presentation Review Checklist ---

Here's a short checklist you can follow to make sure your presentation is absolutely ready to go.
How does this slide contribute to the story?
How does it help the audience address their needs?
Does management want or need to know what's on this slide?
Everything on the slide is the point of this slide clear?
Is it clearly laid out in the title?
Is the title closely connected to the body of the slide?
Is the body of the slide easy to read?
Is it parallel?
Does it contain any unneeded material?
Does your story follow?
A logical and interesting storyline?
Is a conclusion always supported by data and analysis?
Is data always stated with a source?
Are you using consistent format and color schemes and are there any typos?
If you've got all positive answers from these questions, I'm sure your presentation is all set and
ready to present in any large or small customer event.
And in the coming section, we're going to head to our meeting room and see how we can choose the most
appropriate room.

--- Key Questions to Review Your Slides ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- How to Choose a Meeting Room ---

In this video, we're going to learn how to choose a meeting room as a management consultant.
Although sometimes it's not our job to book a meeting room at the client's site, it's always reassuring
to double check with the facilitator if the meeting room is ready for our presentation.
First thing I want to confirm is the room size.
Sometimes both.
A smaller or a bigger room can bring lots of negative impact to our presentation.
A smaller meeting room might have a limited capacity, and we may have invited more people than it could
handle.
So if attendees realize there's a capacity issue at the last minute, they'll bring more chairs or switch
to another room, which could cost additional time and bring a sense of panic to the presenter.
If the meeting room is too big, it could cause lots of echo, and I'm sure that's also something you
don't want to see in your presentation.
And of course, the other thing we want to check is equipment.
So that's including your projector, Wi-Fi and the screen.

--- Minimum Legible Font Size ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Setting Up Your Room for the Presentation ---

Now let's discuss setting up your presentation room.
The best way to layout a room is dependent on a number of factors, which you should consider as the
space available, the size of the audience, and the level of activity and interaction required.
There are six main ways to set up a meeting room, so I'll talk you through them.
First is theatre style, which is when you set your layout seats in a theatre style.
The setup allows for most people in a given size of room.
If the audience is mainly going to be listening to the presentation and note taking.
An interaction is minimal, then it works well.
Normally there's an aisle up the middle to facilitate the audience getting to their seats, and to help
everyone get a better view of the middle of the stage.
Classroom style.
So compared to theatre style, classroom style requires about three times as much space per person because
it provides everyone with somewhere to rest their papers and equipment.
It also has the benefits that allow refreshments to be provided on the tables.
Now, this style works well for audiences that might need to take notes or work individually during
a presentation, but during the meeting might also need to interact with others.
While it's unlikely in a management consulting project type of presentation.
Classroom layout can be deployed to make the room feel more packed versus a theater style layout.
Cabaret style is where people are sitting in groups around tables, and this format is better suited
for workshops than presentations.
One way to put an emphasis on presentation is to arrange the seats in a U around each table.
Doing so makes sure that no one ends up with their back to the presenter.
Boardroom style, which works well if the group is reasonably small and will spend most of the time
talking to each other, or listening to 1 or 2 speakers who are not using a screen.
Horseshoe style is similar to boardroom style.
The difference is it allows more people to participate in the meeting.
Arguably, this is better than an ordinary boardroom layout for giving presentations, assuming audience
members rely on being able to see the projector screen, which is the case for your management consulting
presentation.
Most people will have a better view of the screen.
Walking into the hole in the middle of the desks is a good way to command attention as the speaker.
And finally, open space layout.
Now this is the best format for truly interactive meetings.
These are meetings where you want everyone to be involved in a single conversation, or possibly a short
series of presentations that don't require a screen.
A downside is there's no way to lean on while making notes, but the reduction of barriers so that everyone
can see each other is helpful for encouraging collaboration.
The circle can either be a horseshoe shape or an open circle, or a fully closed circle.
Another important point of these type of meetings is you need to be a strong facilitator, otherwise
the interactivity can quickly turn into chaos.
As a management consultant, boardroom is the most commonly used style to arrange a meeting room.
But whichever layout you decide is needed for your presentation, remember the three golden rules for
the room.
One.
Arrive early so you can tackle any problems.
Two ensure the room is tidy.
Create a positive impression and reduces distractions for your audience.
And three test all the equipment you need to make sure it all works.
There's nothing worse than getting caught out.
If the projector isn't working or a screensaver pops up, or the flipchart pens have run out of ink
before you begin.

--- Presentation Room Setup Checklist ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Practice and Rehearsal Tips ---

Malcolm Gladwell describes the 10,000 hour rule as the time it takes to master a skill.
He insists anyone can be good at something if they're dedicated to learning a skill and working hard
to perfect it.
Now, delivering presentations is a skill you can master if you practice and prepare with passion and
attention to detail.
So here are some tips.
Practice formally and informally.
Ask a colleague if they don't mind listening to the general overview of your presentation and giving
you some feedback.
Or tell your family about the topic over dinner, or even leave an opening of the presentation to yourself
on a voicemail.
Train your brain to remember the flow of your point.
Even consider developing an image in your mind to help you remember those main points in the right order.
When you feel confident, you've got the flow down, the transitions, the main points pretty well embedded
in your head, then it's time to do a dry run.
It's better to do that in the same room or around the same conference table, where you'll be delivering
your actual presentation with the same audiovisual gear.
Ask someone to time you or even consider audio and video taping yourself.
There's a lot you can learn when you hear and see yourself in action.
The Mock Practice run will also allow you to practice the Q&amp;A section.
Ask your colleagues to shout out questions that might come to mind.
Include visuals.
Know what slides are coming up ahead, and be sure you practice with those visuals behind you.
Everyone knows Steve Jobs is a master showman, working the stage with precision.
But the truth is, according to Business Week reporter, one retail executive recalls going to a macworld
rehearsal at Jobs's behest and then waiting for hours before he came off the stage to conduct an interview.
So even the greatest talent needs a lot of time to practice.
To wrap up, my first advice is to reach out to your manager and get feedback, and then stress test
your ideas with your network.
Put your idea into the arena for an idea fight club.
Let the best ideas and arguments win.
And the final one, of course, is don't suffer in silence.
Use the power of your teams.
Now, of course, I don't recommend you spend 10,000 hours practicing your presentation, but I do think
you should take Malcolm Gladwell's point to heart and use practice to get close to perfect.

--- The Power of a Pre-Meeting Email ---

When you work as a management consultant, you'll notice that the most effective meetings rarely just
happen.
They are almost always prepared, framed, and guided in advance.
One of the simplest but most powerful tools you can use is something called a pre-meeting email.
So what is it?
It's a short, professional message you send to the client, or sometimes to a key stakeholder before
the actual meeting takes place.
At first glance, it might look like you're just forwarding a document or confirming logistics, but
in reality the purpose goes much deeper.
Let me explain.
A pre-meeting email sets the stage.
It tells your client what to expect, what you'll be discussing, and sometimes even includes the materials
you'll review together.
This gives them time to read, think, and prepare their own questions or comments.
That means when you walk into the room the next morning, you don't waste 20 minutes just introducing
the deck.
You can get straight into a real conversation.
It's also a sign of respect.
You're showing your client that their time matters.
That you've done the work in advance and that you want them to be ready to contribute.
Many senior executives appreciate this because they often walk into meetings back to back with very
little time to get up to speed.
If they've had a chance to glance at your email earlier in the day or the night before.
They'll come in with sharper questions and, frankly, a better impression of you.
Another hidden benefit is alignment.
A pre-meeting note makes sure there are no surprises.
If a client sees a document or agenda point they weren't expecting, they can flag it before the meeting
instead of reacting negatively in front of the whole group.
This reduces friction and helps you maintain trust.
Think of it this way a meeting without preparation is like showing up to a play without rehearsals.
Yes, everyone might improvise, but the performance won't be as smooth.
By sending that short email in advance, you're giving the client a chance to rehearse mentally.
And here's a pro tip keep it short.
A pre-meeting email doesn't need to be long or overly formal.
2 or 3 sentences explaining what's attached, why you're sending it, and what's coming next is enough.

--- Pre-Meeting Preparations ---

Why am I here?
And what do you need me to do?
It's best if your executive has the answers to these key questions before they sit down to hear you
speak.
The success of your presentation in front of the executive team relies on the quality of your setup
communication, which means the message you send before your actual meeting with the C-suite.
Let's look at some key components of your Pre-meeting messaging, and then you'll see how our protagonists
put them to practice.
Do your homework, whether it's one executive or five.
Be smart and gather essential information from their administrative staff.
For example, how far ahead do they plan?
When will your reminder email get the most attention?
The day before or a week before?
Do they read on their phone or on their computer?
Do they like any pre-read in the form of a one page memo?
All these questions will help you ensure your meeting goes smoothly and efficiently.
Pick your champions.
If you have someone who knows your audience and can give you their stamp of approval, you're not going
in cold.
You might be building credibility by proxy, but for your first debut with the C-suite, it's really
helpful.
This may be as minor as, for example, the legal counsel saying, I hear that John is bringing you
his latest analysis framework.
He's worked very hard on that.
You'll be impressed.
Share the hook.
What?
Why plan your brief pre-meeting communication needs to include the headline of the message, a brief,
even numerical preview of your content and why this information is relevant.
After your brief rapport building intro, make this the core of your message.
It's crucial you're concise and clear.
Set expectations.
Your brief pre-meeting communication should answer the question what do you need me in this meeting
for?
Do you expect the executives to have a discussion, make a decision, give their blessing, approve
additional action, or analyze further in a group.
Whatever you envisage for the meeting action, you need to share it in your pre-meeting email.
Sometimes you're finding difficulties in booking time for a pre-meeting before your presentation.
I'd recommend you still go early, and you can take time to introduce yourself to various people in
the group and ask about their expectations for the meeting or session, or their interest in the topic
or the role in the project you might be addressing.
This builds rapport for several reasons.
It says you're aware of their individual presence.
You don't just view them as a group.
You care about their individual concerns or interests.
Small talk gives you a chance to find a common bond, a mutual acquaintance, a viewpoint, interest,
history, or goal.
Finally, they come to see you as a regular person.
Someone like themselves.
Someone they can believe.

--- More Consulting Presentation Examples (Publicly Available) ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Quickly Establishing a Connection with Your Audience ---

You can thank the person who introduced you to quickly establish a link with your audiences, and you
can also use this opportunity to display a positive attitude, energy, and eagerness to communicate.
All of which makes the audience want to hear you.
But remember, don't overdo it.
The only reason I bring up the subject of enthusiasm is that too many consultants or stakeholders,
like the initial animation that arouses listeners and makes them want to pay attention.
We can simply express enthusiasm for the topic, sincerely tell the listeners why you're glad to be
there, and try and find more than one reason if you can.
Your last one could be the main theme of the presentation.
This is one of my personal favorite opening lines.
Thank you and good evening.
I'm truly honored the privilege to serve this distinguished client.
It's a pleasure to get together with such a large group of amazing talents, to work out the plan to
help us enter the Asian retail market.
It's very simple, but it's an effective way to define the purpose of the presentation and preview the
main points very briefly.
Or it could be something quite general.
It really is a pleasure and a great opportunity for me to be face to face with so many leaders of the
retail industry.
And to share with you some of my thoughts on where the industry is going.
You can even try a more creative way to craft your opening, like using a hook to get your audience's
attention.
For example, you might ask for a show of hands in response to a provocative question that sets up your
topic.
This type of opening is a show of enthusiasm for an organization's mission, a willingness to share
credit, a focus on audience value.
These can be a great way to establish a relationship with your audience quickly.

--- Build Credibility from the Start ---

The topic of a speaker's credibility is a broad one, but credibility is the brand that represents you
as the speaker.
It can be divided into perceptions, actions, and behaviors.
So as I refer to each credibility area, think of how you come across to your intended audience.
Let's start with perceptions.
If you're speaking to a group where you're an outsider, it really helps if someone introduces you from
the inside of the organization, someone who the audience trusts and respects.
If you can't make that happen, try and connect with members of your audience before your presentation.
Introduce yourself.
Try and find out what interests they have in the topic.
It gives you a chance to get to know your audience and customize your presentation even further.
Your goal is to manage the perception of an outsider by having relevant information.
Credible actions are easy to measure the energy, timeliness, and quality of interactions before and
after the presentation and the level of research he or she has done around the topic all speak to credibility.
Credible presenters talk with authority on topics where the research is ample, recent, relevant and
not biased.
When an outside speaker starts a sentence with something like.
From what I read in your company's annual report, it shows interest and connection to the people in
the room, and as a result, it builds credibility.
Avoid hedges such as kind of sort of, I feel, or I suppose instead replace them with strong words,
fact statements I know.
Or in my research I found that finally, credibility is also judged by Non-verbals.
In the early 1970s, renowned psychologist Albert Mehrabian studied how the meaning of a message was
translated by the people that received it, and he found that 93% of the message was carried by Non-verbals
body language, gestures, facial expressions, and tone of voice.

--- Attitude and Professional Presence ---

As I've worked with many multi-million dollar businesses throughout my career, I can tell you attitude
has a much bigger role in presenting success than it does in other areas of life.
There are four main top qualities.
We've told every junior consultant at my firm and they are confidence, enthusiasm, authenticity and
being natural.
The key to a good presentation is confidence.
People won't see how nervous you are, so don't tell them.
Smile, stick your chest out.
Look confident even if you don't feel it.
Enthusiasm in public speaking is an exceptional excitement, interest or devotion expressed through
and in the way words are used to have excitement about your subject will make your speech come alive
and capture the attention of your audience.
That not only makes you more persuasive or motivational, it makes you a more interesting speaker.
Your audience gets a wonderful experience.
You increase your ability to meet or exceed the objective of your presentation.
This speaking skill is what makes this all possible.
Have you ever delivered a presentation and noticed your audience losing interest or their body language
showing they don't get it?
Maybe you've just felt that what you're delivering isn't something you believed in, or it just didn't
sound right to your own ears.
Now imagine delivering a presentation where your audience is fully engaged and you feel great as you
know, you've delivered a truly captivating presentation.
We've all seen someone deliver a presentation like this and we wonder what their secret is.
The thing to understand is that there's only one secret to delivering a great presentation, and that's
to believe in yourself and be yourself.
So being authentic is absolutely crucial for a management consultant.
The next top quality you've got to have is being flawless and natural.
As you become accustomed to public speaking and presenting, you'll grow more comfortable and able to
be more natural and let the real you come out.
But if you're still quite nervous about the idea of presenting in front of others, don't worry, it's
natural.
In fact, virtually every confident and engaging presenter you see today is at some point earlier been
in their careers, less sure of themselves in front of a live audience.
But all in all, you can't just fake it without having to understand your content.
If you don't know your key messages and your storyline, your confidence is useless.
The root of an extraordinary presentation is always your expertise.

--- Eye Contact and Body Language ---

Major components of conveying authenticity and therefore your trustworthiness are body language and
eye contact.
As an elite management consultant, they are critical.
As we discuss this topic, remember, an interesting point about body language is that it can even be
sensed over the phone.
When you smile, the tone of your voice changes and this can be conveyed over the phone as well as in
person.
In our faces we've got over 30 separate muscles.
When we smile, we use almost half.
When we gesture using our hands and face, our thoughts are conveyed more emphatically to convey openness
and honesty.
You can try using more open body language, as opposed to doing actions like crossing your arms in front
of you.
If we're standing up in front of people, moving with purpose rather than shifting weight from side
to side, will have a positive effect on our message as well.
Eye contact is also critical for a number of reasons.
For most people, it's considered a sign of sincerity and interest in those with whom you're speaking.
Eye contact also keeps us focused and in tune with how our clients are feeling about what we're saying.
Consider two scenarios.
In one, you read off your notes and stare at the presentation screen, missing out on your clients
reactions.
In the other scenario, you have good eye contact, which allows you to pick up on little cues that
show what doesn't interest your clients.
If you're not looking at your client, they could be doing anything checking email, giving looks to
those across the room essentially anything but taking in what you're trying to convey with your presentation.
If you have good eye contact, you can do things like pause until the client's ready, then ask a question.
that shows you're engaged with your audience and interested in their feelings.
Doing this is essential to building connection and further trust to develop your relationship.
For a few people, this all comes naturally.
But for most of us, though, it takes practice and preparation.
You can do it by watching videos of great speakers.
Look how they move and how they gesture.
See how they maintain eye contact with the audience.
Look at your friends to see which ones are great communicators, and try to learn their habits with
your friends.
You can also practice maintaining appropriate eye contact during regular conversations.
When preparing for a presentation, think about your likely surroundings and who you're presenting to.
If you're just doing it over a desk, remind yourself to lean forward a little and keep good eye contact.
If you're presenting to a group, consider whether you'll be sitting or standing.
By preparing, you can minimize mannerisms that might convey a lack of preparation or worse yet, insincerity.
Above all, your body language and eye contact will convey what you really feel inside.
You must believe in your message and this will come through in your body language.
One way to do this when giving a presentation as a management consultant, is to focus on the fact that
you're there to help.
Keeping this in mind will help your body language and eye contact deliver the message you want to send.
The other tip I can share with you is the power pose.
Basically, when you're confident your poses are quite powerful, you stretch out your chest or you
use your hands frequently.
In general, you use a power pose to dominate more of the room.
On the contrary, a weaker pose makes yourself smaller, such as putting your hands down below the table.

--- Three Techniques to Improve Your Body Language ---

The field that we decided to do it in.
The choice we made was music.
Now why music?
Well, we love music, and it's always good to do something you love.
If you've ever watched some of Steve Jobs most iconic presentations, and if not, I highly recommend
taking a look at this video.
You'll notice three powerful techniques he uses to enhance his presence on stage.
These are techniques anyone can and should adopt to improve their speaking and presentation skills.
Maintaining eye contact, adopting an open posture, and using expressive hand gestures.
Eye contact jobs captivates his audience by maintaining eye contact nearly all the time.
Even when he glances at a slide, he immediately returns his attention to the crowd.
This unwavering focus builds a connection with listeners, making them feel seen and engaged.
The secret to this confidence practice.
Jobs spent weeks rehearsing his presentations, internalizing every slide and refining his words.
This preparation meant he never had to rely on his slides as a crutch, freeing him to focus on the
audience.
Most presenters, however, neglect to.
Practice enough and it shows.
Open posture.
Another key to jobs commanding presence is his open posture.
He rarely crosses his arms or hides behind a lectern.
Instead, he deliberately positions himself without barriers, ensuring there's nothing between him
and his audience.
During product demos, he sits parallel to the computer, so both he and the audience maintain clear
sight lines.
After every demonstration step, jobs immediately turns to explain his actions, keeping the connection
alive with constant engagement.
This openness conveys confidence and invites trust.
Hand gestures.
Gestures are where jobs truly shines.
He punctuates nearly every sentence with a gesture that reinforces his words.
Unlike outdated public speaking advice that suggests keeping hands stiffly at your sides, jobs embraces
expressive movement.
This natural use of gestures makes him relatable, dynamic, and far more compelling.
In fact, skilled communicators like jobs often use more gestures than the average speaker, not fewer.
Far from being distracting, these movements add energy and emotion to his delivery.
Holding the audience's attention from start to finish.
Mastering these three techniques.
Purposeful eye contact and open and confident posture and intentional hand gestures will elevate your
presence and make your presentations far more engaging.
Like jobs, you'll transform from a speaker who simply delivers information to one who leaves a lasting
impression.
iPod.
What is iPod?
iPod is an MP3 music player, has CD quality music, and it plays all of the popular open formats of
digital music MP3, MP3, variable bit rate, WAV, and Aiff.
But the biggest thing about iPod is it holds 1000 songs.
Now, this is a quantum leap because it's hard for most people.
It's their entire music library.
This is huge.
How many times have you gone on the road with a CD player and said, Oh God, I didn't bring the CD.
I wanted to listen to.
To have your whole music library with you at all times is a quantum leap in listening to music.
The coolest thing about iPod is that whole your entire music library fits in your pocket.
You can take your whole music library with you right in your pocket.
Never before possible.
So that's iPod.
There are three major breakthroughs in iPod.
Let's take a look at each one of them.
The first one is it's ultra portable.
So if we're going to keep 1000 songs on iPod and it fits in your pocket, how do we do this?
How do we possibly do this?
Well, we start off with an ultra thin hard drive.
We've got a 1.8in diameter hard drive that's 0.2in thick.
Super thin.
And that hard drive is five gigabytes in capacity, five gigabytes, which holds 1000 songs at 160 kilobit
rate, which is a very high quality rate of MP3 compression.
Very high quality 1000 songs on this five gigabyte drive.
And we built in 20 minute circuit protection.
That's not that's not 20s 20 minute skip protection.
So you can take iPod bicycling, mountain climbing, jogging, you name it, and you're not going to
skip a beat.
So we've got this five gigabyte drive that holds 1000 songs.
How do we get the 1000 songs on to iPod?
We don't want to wait.
So we've built in FireWire.
Now.
Apple, as you know, invented FireWire.
We should FireWire on every computer we make.
It's built into iPod.
It's the first and only music player with FireWire.
Why?
Because it's fast.
You can download an entire CD into iPod in five to 10s an entire CD.
So let's take a look at how it compares with USB.
Five to 10s for FireWire.
To load a CD on a USB player, you're talking five minutes.
Let's talk about a thousand songs now on iPod.
With FireWire it is under ten minutes.
On a USB player it is five hours.
Can you imagine that?
You get your USB player, you want to load a thousand songs, and you get to watch it for five hours
while it loads the songs under ten minutes.
With iPod, it's 30 times faster than any other MP3 player.
So huge win.
Now it doesn't matter how many songs you have with you if your battery is dead, right?
So we have built in an extraordinary battery in the iPod, ten hours of battery life, and that is ten
hours of continuous music.
We're using a rechargeable lithium polymer battery.
This is a more advanced battery than we even use in our portable computers.
It's the most advanced battery we've ever shipped, and you can recharge this ten hour battery in one
hour to 80% of its capacity on a fast charge.
One hour.
But maybe the coolest thing is that, you know, FireWire.
The FireWire cable carries all the data from the Mac to iPod.
But FireWire also has power on it.
And so when you plug in to your Mac, it actually charges the iPod over that single FireWire cable so
you don't have another charging cable to worry about.
It charges over FireWire every time you plug into your Mac.
Now you might say, well, what happens if I'm on the road with my iPod?
And I didn't bring my Mac with me and my battery is running low?
What do I do?
Well, we got a really cool charger that ships as part of iPod two, and this charger has a FireWire
port on it.
So you take your FireWire cable and just plug it right into the charger and plug it into the outlet
and charge iPod wherever you happen to be where there's an outlet.
So ten hours of continuous music playback with a remarkable new battery technology.
Now you might be saying, well, this is cool.
This is cool.
But, you know, I've got a big hard disk in my, my portable, let's say my iBook.
I'm running iTunes.
I'm really happy.
I've got FireWire on my iBook.
I don't quite get ten hours of battery life, but iBooks got better.
Better battery life than any other consumer portable.
So what's what's so special about iPod here?
It's ultra portable.
An iBook is really portable, but this is ultra portable.
And let me show you what I mean.
iPod is the size of a deck of cards.
A deck of cards.
It is 2.4in wide.
It is four inches tall, and it is barely over three quarters of an inch thick.
This is tiny.
It also only weighs 6.5oz.
That is lighter than most of the cell phones you have in your pockets right now.
So this is what's so remarkable about iPod.
It is ultra portable.
We didn't stop there.
iPod has got Apple design.
We've got one of the best design teams in the world.
And they have done a remarkable job.
Uh, and let me show you.
This is what iPod looks from the side again, about three quarters of an inch thick.
I'm going to show you the back first because I'm in love with it.
It's stainless steel.
It's really, really durable.
It's beautiful.
And this is what the front of it looks like.
Boom.
That's iPod.
I happen to have one right here in my pocket.
Matter of fact, there it is, right there.
So this amazing little device holds a thousand songs.
And it goes right in my pocket.

--- Voice Control and How to Improve It ---

There are those of us who like to venture to the unexplored, to see the beauty in the strange and unknown.
Those of us who go out there with a sense of wonder, listening to someone with a pleasant voice can
be a pleasure.
A great example is the deep, resonating sound of Morgan Freeman's voice.
Due to the popularity of his voice, he's narrated countless commercials and taken part in many films
because his voice is so pleasing to the ear.
He's got a voice people will listen to for hours.
And a great voice can stir up feelings in our heart and focus our attention.
On the other hand, the opposite is also true.
If we hear a voice we don't like, we don't want to listen to it for very long.
So it's reasonable to conclude that it's a lot easier to make a connection with someone who wants to
listen to what we have to say.
Of course, our personality and sincerity can eventually win someone over, but with the advantage of
the client actually liking to hear our voice, it makes it easier for them to hear what we have to say.
In consulting, we think and work on what we're going to say all the time.
We consider the emphasis we'll place on certain words, and the pace will deliver the presentation at
the tone of our voice, though, is not one which many consultants will spend time focusing on, despite
how important it is to connecting with people.
It is natural to be asking, how can I control my voice?
I was born this way and to an extent that's true, but with just a little practice you can influence
it.
To start though, you need to understand how the voice works.
The foundation of your vocal sounds is a column of air you send up through your lungs, through the
windpipe, into your larynx, also known as the voice box in the middle of your throat.
When you want to speak, little muscles tighten up your vocal cords.
By doing this, it causes them to vibrate as air is forced past them.
The roof of your mouth, tongue, lips, and teeth break up the vibrations and turn them into recognizable
speech.
It's a remarkable process that people around the world can do without thinking.
And the key to all of this is controlling your breathing and the tightening of your vocal cords.
For example, by not breathing deeply and just filling the top of your lungs, your voice might be too
quiet and it'll cause you to breathe more frequently.
That'll chop up your presentation and make you harder to hear.
If you find yourself overly nervous or you didn't get enough sleep, your vocal cords are likely to
tighten up and make you too high pitched or strained.
So how do we control this?
Relax.
Of course, being nervous when doing an important presentation in front of clients is normal, but the
key is to control it.
One way to do that is by taking a few deep breaths.
Make sure you've filled up your entire lungs, not just the top of them.
Consciously relax your body.
Pay special attention to your shoulders, throat, and jaw muscles.
Humming to yourself can help.
Try and focus on that.
You're there with the purpose of helping your clients, not just earning a fee.
This will help you relax.
I've personally worked very hard over the years on my tone and pacing.
These improvements can take a long time to perfect.
When I did presentations, I used to get a little too excited.
It resulted in my voice getting higher and my pace of talking becoming too fast.
I'm not sure what you think of my speaking style today, but what you hear now is a big improvement
on what I used to do as a management consultant.
The two primary tools you have control over are your stories and the way you sound when you deliver
that.
So given that it's reasonable to conclude you need to work on both areas, the preparation and practice
you'll need to put into both will pay off when your clients actually enjoy listening to you speak.
Your credibility will be boosted and your messages will be more impactful.
These types of outcomes are what management consultants need to thrive.

--- Don’t Read Your Slides ---

We've all sat through a presentation where the presenter has simply read off their slides.
Do you remember how boring it was?
Now imagine what your clients will feel if they simply see you reading out the PowerPoint presentation
you created.
They'll be bored.
They'll be distracted.
Reading out slides is a novice mistake.
PowerPoint slides are there to give structure to the narrative.
They can remind you of what to say and give your audience a visual element to the story you're telling
your presentation.
As I've discussed, needs to be logically structured and well assembled.
With suitable graphs and data in legible form.
Your deck should look good and be good, but you shouldn't read your slides.
Reasons for this include.
People read faster than you can talk.
It's insulting.
By reading the slide, it might seem like you don't trust the audience to read it for themselves.
Your back will be to the audience, meaning you can't engage properly with them.
It implies that the words on the screen is all there is to your work, and it takes away from the sense
that you're telling a story.
Instead, it makes it feel like you're reading from a script.
The worst presentation I ever saw was at a conference several years ago.
The presenter, an authoritative man in his early 50s, started by handing out a copy of a 50 page slide
book and a 15 page script.
And as he read his script, his assistant pressed click each time he moved to another bullet point.
What soon became apparent was that his script and slides were identical.
He was using PowerPoint to put his script on screen, line by line.
Within ten minutes, the audience realized what the next 60 minutes had in store for them and decided,
en masse, to go to sleep.
If you are already used to reading your slide, it isn't the end of the world.
Here are some ways to fix the habit.
Make the presentation shorter.
Reduce the number of bullet points per page.
Use graphs to tell the point visually and make it obvious with the analysis.
Learn PowerPoint English i.e. how to write in phrases, not full sentences in the slides.
Use numbers to drive home the point and therefore leave you to explain the surrounding details in the
presentation, and use titles to say something and be effective.
If you're a consultant who can charge a client between 250 and $500 an hour, then you're a pro.
You'll know your field, and the client expects a certain standard.
Perhaps a good way of thinking of this is what would you think if you saw an actor on TV reading his
script, as opposed to acting, having memorized the lines?
Or how would you view a chef who repeatedly looks at the recipe?
Or how would you view a pharmacist who had to keep on turning Google to find answers to your questions?
Don't read your slides.

--- How to Speak Without Notes ---

Wouldn't it be great to do a talk without any notes?
And you can.
I'm going to show you how.
So, in increasing order of goodness, starting with the worst one never read from a script.
It's horrible.
Reading out a talk from a script means there's no eye contact.
It's going to sound stilted.
It's awful.
Never write out a script and read it.
It's a whole lot of work anyway to have to write the script out as well.
But the good news is you don't have to write a great script and similarly never learn it off.
By heart.
I mean, that's slightly better than reading it out, but learning it off by heart is a huge job to
have to do.
And what happens if your mind goes blank at the beginning of your talk, or halfway through it?
You're stuffed, and if you've got the script, you'll be rummaging for where you are.
Where's your place in that script?
So don't do it.
Don't read the script.
Don't learn a script off by heart.
Just don't do scripts at all.
That's good news.
On to things I like.
I think an A4 page of notes is good.
You know, imagine if you just had a piece of paper and on here ten things written in capitals.
I could just hold that and do my talk.
But how would you feel if you were the audience?
And I was now thinking, well, the next thing I want to tell you is this.
And the next thing I want to tell you about is this.
Would you be thinking he's cheating?
He's got notes.
I think you wouldn't.
I think you'd be fine with it.
In fact, you'd probably be pleased that I'd done a bit of preparation.
So I think an A4 page is absolutely fine.
Now, of course, what you can do if you leave your A4 page on the table and every now and then you
have a quick look at it, they probably won't even notice that that's what you're doing.
So if I'm writing on a flipchart, I quite often put the A4 page on the floor next to the chart or on
a chair just behind it, so I can see it, but the audience can't tell I'm looking at it.
A4 is good.
I don't like little cards.
You know, the classic wedding speech where they've got those little cards in their hand.
I think they're a bit naff and they've got problems as well because they're small.
The writing has to be small.
It's hard to see.
You have to keep turning them over.
And of course the audience can then see them.
I always want to shout out, I can see your cards just because they're small enough to be in your hand.
I can still see them.
But the main problem I find with cards is you don't know what's coming next.
When you flip over the card, you think, oh yeah, I was going to talk about that next.
But if you've got your A4 page, you can see what's coming next.
There's more of a flow.
You can lead into it.
You can say, now I'm going on to my next section, which is X.
So I just think cards don't have that flow.
There's a risk you're going to drop them and get them in the wrong order.
I wouldn't have them.
I don't recommend them.
So A4 page of notes put them on a table.
Put them behind a flipchart.
Another little trick if you're using a flipchart is you can write in pencil just very lightly on it,
and the audience won't be able to see it, but you will.
So then you write in your big marker pen on the flipchart, but you've got the pencil telling you what
to put.
That's one clever thing you can do.
But I think the best way of all is probably just to be cued by your visual aid.
And if you're using PowerPoint, that's what you've got to do.
Cue your visual aid.
So the visuals that come up on PowerPoint tell you what you need to do.
If you've just got bullets coming up, it should still be enough to remind you what you want to say.
Now, when you do your run through, if you find you can't remember a key number or a date or a population
or something, that's a price, then put it on the slide.
And if there are three points you want to make about one of the bullets and you can't remember what
those three are.
Put them in a subbullets underneath.
So when you find it gets too complicated and you just can't remember it, it's a sign.
You just need to put a little bit more on the visual aid.
But the visual aid should just be bullets.
You definitely don't want to have paragraphs of text that you're reading out, because then the audience
are thinking, I could read that.
Why is he doing it to me?
No paragraphs of text, just bullets.
I read somewhere you should never have more than seven bullets on one PowerPoint slide.
I think it's a good rule, but fewer than that 4 or 5 is probably the ideal number.
As I mentioned, you could have a few sub bullets if there are particular points you want to remember,
but if you find you've got seven bullets and four subs within each one, clearly you need to have seven
slides and each one is going to have four bullets on it.
So just divide it down.
But then you've got to start thinking how long my talk is going to be.
Keep an eye on it.
To sum it up never write a script.
Never read it out.
Never learn it off by heart.
Don't have scripts at all.
I don't think cards are good either.
Have A4 notes on the table or on the floor.
Pencil on your flipchart or be cued by your visual aid.

--- Taking Notes During Meetings ---

Most people fail to take notes because they've never learnt how to do it.
As a management consultant during a presentation, we often have some open questions to collect more
information about the study, so we need to prepare another paper to take notes.
And in this lecture I'll show you how to take notes like us.
Note taking is important at McKinsey because it's essential for providing you with the necessary evidence
to inform and develop your argument.
And it also assists you in concentrating on and understanding the information you're reading by helping
you summarize the ideas and arguments in a text.
A framework we developed at McKinsey is called Sky Rain Umbrella.
We separate the A4 paper into three sections umbrella on the top sky on the left, ray on the right.
The steps are simple to follow.
We write down the facts we collected from observation or client feedback so it's crucial to collect
primary information correctly.
It looks like we're staring at the sky.
Then we'll use our analytical skills to explain the possible reasons or results in the rain section.
Finally, we conclude the action plan on the top as we decide to take an umbrella because the sky has
turned dark and it's going to rain very shortly.
One thing I have to say is that the framework works particularly fine in a consulting firm.
If you're working in a totally different working environment.
I'd offer some alternatives in the further reading section, so feel free to find one that might better
fit in with your position.

--- Reference: Alternative Note Taking Frameworks ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Address Participants by Name ---

They're taking time for their busy schedules to attend your PowerPoint presentation, so don't waste
it just like you.
They are experts at what you do appreciate and welcome the expertise of your audience.
Treat them with kindness.
Hold them in high regard.
They can sense your attitude.
Respect goes both way.
A lack of respect for your audience will undermine your credibility and impede your success.
When appropriate, introduce yourself and learn your participants names.
Once you know their names, use them.
Calling participants by name is professional.
It engages your audience, avoids confusion, and builds trust.
As shown on the screen for face to face and hybrid classes, I create a seating chart and then I spell
names phonetically.

--- Using a Microphone Effectively ---

If an event coordinator offers you a microphone, use it.
Test it first.
And if it works, by all means use the mic.
Don't wait for the audience to be asked, hey, can you hear me?
Okay.
It's not a strong opening statement and you're wasting everyone's time.
Take a few minutes to set up and test the mic before you present, not after you start.
The main reason presenters become microphones shy is because they're secretly afraid of it.
Sometimes it's just fear of the unfamiliar.
Where most accustomed to hearing our voices without amplification, with a mic that can sound loud and
imposing to our own ears.
If you're not familiar with the sound of your amplified voice, it can sound intimidating or even too
loud.
Also, a speaker might not be familiar with the actual microphone itself.
This is why running an audio check prior to the presentation is so important.
The sound check isn't merely to make sure the equipment is working.
It's often even more important to make a speaker comfortable with using the microphone.
Always take a few moments before your presentation to get familiar with the mic.
In many large scale venues, you might be asked to use a wireless lavalier mic.
A lavalier is great.
It keeps your hands free and lets you use a broader range of body motions.
If you're concerned about modesty, you might want to hook the mic up in a private place like a restroom,
because you'll be dropping wires underneath your shirt.
Also, it's important to know that dresses and lavalier mics, they don't tend to mix very well.
The battery pack portion of the microphone needs to hook onto a firm belt line, so only sturdy skirts
or pants will do.
Finally, consult a mirror or ask a person you trust if your lavalier mic looks okay, since the wires
in the pack are often behind your back.
It can be difficult to see exactly where you might have gone wrong with any self set up.
You might also be in a situation where you'll be given a handheld mic before a presentation.
You usually need to say a few sentences to get comfortable and understand how far away to hold the mic
from your mouth.
And here's a tip it's usually a lot closer than you think.
And with a handheld mic, you'll need to understand how it's going to affect your physical performance.
You might have to adjust any broad or sweeping gestures you might have planned.
And sometimes an event coordinator will leave it up to you.
They'll ask you if you want to use a mic or not.
Remember, the answer is always yes.
Get comfortable using a mic.
You'll look and sound like the polished professional that you are.

--- Managing Your Presentation Space ---

We choose to go to the moon.
We choose to go to the moon in this decade and do the other things.
Not because they are easy, but because they are hard.
Own your space.
What do I mean by that?
I mean, look like you've been there before.
Use the space like you've been in front of the group a hundred other times.
And if you're sitting in a conference table instead of standing, pick the middle of the table, not
the head.
The minimum exudes conference.
And from a practical standpoint, it gives you better eye contact use of space.
It's got to do with both posture and movement.
So let's look at posture first.
Standing strong and confident but relaxed and comfortable is a speaker's best secret.
When you speak, stand tall with your shoulders relaxed, chest lifted, and your center of gravity
holding strong.
These tips are equally important whether you're standing in front of an audience or sitting at a conference
table.
Keep your shoulders square towards the audience so you can be heart to heart with them, even if the
group is large enough for you to have to rotate around.
I encourage you to stand tall.
Navigate with your eyes versus your shoulders when you interact with slides projected behind you.
Practice so you can reach out and point to them, but you'll still be heart to heart with the audience.
We've all seen the speaker who turns their back to the group in front of them, trying to point to the
right place, but don't be that person.
If you tend to sway side to side, or if you tend to shift your weight from one hip to the other, try
these tips.
Plant your feet in a V so you don't sway, even if you're sitting.
It's important not to swivel.
Ground your feet on the floor.
If you mumble one foot planted on the ground while the other one steps forward and back, forward and
back, you've probably seen that.
I encourage you to place all your weight on the front leg and let the back leg just balance you.
This only looks like you're leaning forward towards your audience, but it keeps you from being distracting
and just moving too much.
If you tend to shuffle around while you stand, practice standing on a newspaper or even better, a
piece of tin foil.
The auditory feedback coming from your feet while you practice your speech will remind you to stand
still.
Last, if you present while sitting in a chair and you worry about slouching, consider sitting on the
edge of the chair, keeping your core muscles tight and your chest lifted.
Let's look at movement.
If you have the space to move.
Use it to your advantage.
Professional speakers often refer to the speakers triangle, a movement space that allows them to walk
and plant while making important points.
Using space to accentuate points in your speech is beneficial if it's strategic.
If you have a strong closing point to make, consider taking a step or two forward for effect at the
tip of the triangle.
If your speech involves a podium, your movement will be a lot more restricted.
Your gestures will help you project some of your energy to the audience.
And if a closing point allows you to step away from the podium, do it.
One last note on movement and use of visuals.
We've all seen that speaker who nervously ends up in front of a projector light with the word deficit
slapped on their forehead.
Don't be that person.
Practice with the projector on and then consider blanking your slides when you want to make a point
that grants only the power of your words.
So remember to practice in the room where you'll be speaking and practice some of the tips that I shared.
Strong posture and deliberate movement can exude confidence during your presentation and make you shine.

--- Applying the 10-Minute Rule ---

Your audience checks out after ten minutes, not 1110.
We know this valuable fact now, thanks to new research into cognitive functioning.
Simply put, the brain gets bored.
According to molecular biologist John Medina, the brain seems to be making choices according to some
stubborn timing pattern, undoubtedly influenced by both culture and genetics.
Medina says peer reviewed studies confirm the ten minute rule, as do his own observations.
If you watch the Apple event, Steve Jobs doesn't give the brain time to get bored in a 30 minute period.
His presentations include demonstrations, a second or a third speaker, and video clips.
Jobs is well aware that even his gifts of persuasion are no match for a tired brain constantly seeking
new stimuli.
So try and obey the ten minute rule.
Give your listeners brains a break.

--- Why Short Reports Build More Credibility Than Long Ones ---

People often ask why, given the magnitude of what we were presenting, we didn't include far more detail
or show all of the analysis behind it.
The truth is, the length of a presentation is dictated not by the complexity of the subject, but by
the credibility of the firm and the audience.
Adding more slides doesn't automatically create trust.
Either you walk into the room with credibility or you don't.
There are rare occasions where you can turn that around mid-meeting, but it's never the number of slides
that does it.
It's the way you present them.
Think of it like this.
If you came home every night to a spouse who demanded to see your receipts and phone records, you could
prepare the perfect set of documents each day.
That might keep the peace, but the very need to produce them would be proof of a lack of trust.
In the same way, overly long reports can signal weak credibility.
Strong firms don't rely on bulk.
Weaker firms often pad their decks with slides in the hope it will make them look authoritative.
It doesn't.
Credibility is measured by whether your client acts on your recommendations, not by how much backup
material you bring.
My own approach is rooted in how much I enjoy consulting.
I don't do it just to pay the bills or fund some distant goal.
I genuinely love the work because of that.
I know my material inside out.
When I present a final report, I can often walk through it without looking at the document, telling
the client exactly what's on page four, what the graph on the right is showing, and what page five
illustrates.
It's not memorization, it's the product of being deeply involved and engaged in the work.
I remember the first time I did this alongside a senior partner who had once served as a government
minister.
We went into a meeting with an 80 page report, handed out copies, and when someone offered me one,
I declined.
I simply talked them through the whole thing, point by point.
The reaction was always the same surprise and respect.
It showed mastery, confidence, and the ability to extract the big picture without losing command of
the details.
That kind of delivery builds credibility far more effectively than an avalanche of slides.
When you meet senior government officials, you also have to factor in the realities of the meeting.
A 60 minute slot might lose five minutes to pleasantries, and if the principal is sharp, he'll move
quickly to the point.
But his advisers will take up a lot of the rest of the time, peppering you with questions.
In practice, you may only have 30 minutes with the key decision maker.
So your presentation needs to be crisp, clear and adaptable.
Filling that precious time with excessive content in the hope of boosting credibility is a mistake.
You need just enough material to frame the discussion, and the rest comes down to your ability to respond
fluidly and convincingly in the moment.
Credibility is built long before the final meeting.
By the time you get to that stage, if you've run the study well and your reputation has preceded you,
your task is to maintain trust, not build it from scratch.
Yes, it can be destroyed in a final presentation, but it's rarely created there.
The three factors that matter most are the reputation you've built during the engagement, the clarity
and relevance of your report and you, your presence, delivery, and ability to connect with the audience.
The report is the least important of the three.
A mediocre report, brilliantly presented, will carry far more weight than a great report delivered
poorly.
Ultimately, no one is judging you by how many slides you have.
They're judging you by how you convey your insights, and whether they believe enough in you and your
numbers to act on them.
That's why our report was short.
The insights were clear, our explanations sharper still, and by that point, the client's trust in
us was already secured.

--- The Art of Humour in Presentations ---

Humour can be a powerful icebreaker, helping to engage your audience and show that you understand their
perspective.
When used thoughtfully, it can lighten the mood, build rapport, and create a sense of connection.
However, humour is a double edged sword.
What seems amusing in one context may fall flat or even offend, particularly when presenting to a culturally
diverse audience.
A well-timed joke can enhance your message, while an ill judged remark can damage your credibility.
If humour doesn't come naturally to you, it's best not to force it.
Insincere attempts are easy to spot and can make your audience uncomfortable.
Self-deprecating humour is often a safer choice, helping you build relatability without targeting others.
On the other hand, sarcasm or jokes at someone's expense can backfire.
Relying too heavily on humour can also weaken your message, distracting from your key points.
The goal is to use humour sparingly and purposefully to support your presentation, not overshadow it.
Preparation is key.
Rehearse your jokes to refine your delivery and ensure they land well.
Authenticity is equally important.
Humour drawn from your own experiences often resonates best.
Avoid jokes that require too much context or explanation as their impact may be lost.
And if you ever find yourself unsure about the appropriateness of a joke, it's better to leave it out.
In a professional setting, a failed attempt at humour can cause lasting damage when done right.
Humour can elevate your presentation, making it more engaging, memorable and enjoyable.
By maintaining sensitivity to your audience's reactions and striking the right balance, you'll enhance
your credibility and leave a lasting impression.

--- Handling Disruptions ---

Everyone faces challenges when presenting, and two of the most common are interruptions and mistakes.
They're common, but they don't have to throw you off.
Let's think about interruptions.
And there are many.
Someone's phone's ringing.
A person comes in late, loud noises in the hallway, people holding side conversations, the lights
going out.
A fire alarm going off.
If it's a minor issue, such as a noise or a phone, just smile and instantly dive back into what you're
doing.
Your focus on positive energy will keep them with you.
No problem.
Now, if the interruption is big and forces you to stop like a power loss or a fire alarm, make a note
of exactly where you are in the presentation and wait for the group to adjust to the issue, whether
that's helping a person or regrouping into another room.
Then when you begin again, assuming you do, take a quick 20 to 30s to summarize what you've covered,
then keep going as if nothing ever happened.
In general, when you're interrupted, if it's at all possible, just keep going.
Don't pay attention to the person on their phone.
Don't spend 20 minutes trying to find that missing slide move on.
Even if you're only using your expertise and your voice.
Similarly, mistakes you make shouldn't be a big deal.
In fact, when they're handled well, mistakes can actually improve how others feel about you and the
material you're presenting.
Just remember these two rules.
First, don't admit the mistakes don't matter if you're talking about a maths error that's truly inconsequential.
If you said something, the event took place in Saint Louis.
Who cares if you know you've made a tiny mistake?
Correct yourself on the fly.
Move on.
If it's really small, you mispronounce a word.
Don't say anything.
Just keep going.
In case of a bigger mistake, you want to casually own it and then move on.
For example, say, wait a minute, I misspoke.
The cost is $50,000, not $30,000.
Okay, now when we go to market, notice that I casually owned it and move on.
I didn't apologize.
You don't need to.
Don't make a big deal.
Don't show embarrassment.
Don't try and explain.
Just correct the error and keep going.
The same applies if you forget something.
If it's truly inconsequential, keep going.
They'll never know.
If it's important, they will know.
So admit it.
Then move on.
Now in the event someone else points out your mistake, just be grateful.
Thank them, correct yourself and keep going.
Interruptions and mistakes are normal, so start building the skill right now.
Empower one of your colleagues to watch you deal with these issues the next time you present and listen
to their feedback.
That's when improvement begins and when interruptions and mistakes start to become no big deal.

--- How to Dress for a Client Meeting ---

Mark Twain is said to have commented that naked people have little or no influence in society, and
that clothes make man.
How accurate this is can be debated, but our clothing is one of the first things people see when they
meet us.
What we wear and our overall appearance can be seen by those around us well before we speak with them,
if we speak with them at all.
First impressions are critical to making connections, and connections are critical to establishing
trust.
Of course, how we dress is personal to all of us.
It's a way we express our own tastes and style.
For some, it's colourful socks, for others, it's about shoes.
Whatever our own personal tastes, though, there are some basic principles to follow when we're going
to our consulting presentations.
What you wear will depend on the industry, geography and audience, but there are factors we can focus
on cleanliness being well arranged and our audience cleanliness is fairly obvious.
When you're doing a management consulting presentation, you should be clean and presentable.
Of course, accidents do happen, such as a pen bursting in your pocket.
This happened to a friend of mine on his way to a meeting.
When he arrived, he dealt with the issue head on with the client.
It turned out they'd had the same issue just a few weeks before.
they joked about it.
Then they got on with serious work.
But the goal should be being clean in our appearance.
Wrinkled or dirty clothes are subconsciously, or sometimes even consciously associated with a lack
of attention to detail.
That's not a good way to begin a presentation.
So what do I mean by being well arranged?
It's about your overall appearance.
What does your hair look like?
Is it neat and orderly?
Hairstyle?
The look of neatness and being well arranged applies to facial hair as well.
The styles are your choice, but they should be well maintained.
In a similar vein.
Make sure your clothes are pressed and ironed.
There's no place for wrinkly shirts in a professional presentation.
Remember, you're there on behalf of your company and to help your client.
Which clothes are required for that situation trumps your personal style.
If our industry or geography is casual, but the person that we're meeting with likes to be formal,
aim to be the same as them.
It's most likely to impress them and give the impression that we really care about them.
How we dress is important, with just some simple preparation and attention to what we wear and our
overall appearance.
We can help keep them focused on our message as opposed to thinking about some aspect of our appearance.

--- Wrapping Up Your Presentation ---

Presentation, beginnings and endings should be the bookends of your information, strategically placed
to capture the audience's attention.
Build your credibility, give a call to action, and make you memorable.
In order to follow logical appeal, I invite you to always connect the dots that thread from the opening
back to the close.
If you started with a story, refer back to it at the close.
If you asked an open ended question, provide a possible answer based on the information you shared.
What you choose to open and close with will progressively engage your audience, depending on the context
and your level of familiarity with them.
You can decide which path to take from these suggestions.
Open with a quote, a relevant statistic, or even a tagline from the morning's newspaper.
Remember, your choice for an opening will have to tightly connect to the value added.
The so what?
For your audience, a startling but unrelated fact can quickly rob you of your credibility and lose
the audience's attention.
If you choose open with a story serious, humorous, or dramatic, delivered in a way that intrigues
their senses, describe images, colors, settings, the immediate environment, feelings, mindsets,
assumptions, or even the background to the story.
If you ask them to be the protagonist and imagine a situation instead.
Add the same layer of senses and ask them to fill in the blanks.
Have they ever felt this way?
Do you get nervous when this happens?
When you, as a speaker, ask the question, your intonation changes and people listen up.
A question either directed to the audience or to yourself makes you as the speaker less monotonous.
When you use it in the introduction, with a healthy pause, that question increases intrigue.
You can ask the audience for a show of hands to a yes or no type question, or a nod if they've experienced
what you're describing.
Audience participation is always a great way to connect, as long as you know the group will play along.
If you started with an open ended question, close with a reference back to it and connect the points
you shared as the answer.
The hiring engagement dimension of your presentation will include a call to action with the close or
a clear ask if you're making a persuasive presentation.
Introductions and closings are the bookends of your presentation.
Be strategic about them and practice them so your energy is strong and your message is clear.
Contrary to popular belief, asking do you have any questions is not the best way to end a presentation.
Instead, end with a call to action.
A strong call to action should include these key ingredients.
Reiterate the challenge and your solution.
Recommend specific action, obtain commitment or buy in, agree and assignments if appropriate, and
explain what you'll be doing to follow up after the presentation.
Here's a sample process that I use to wrap up my first.
I'd recap our storyline and key points briefly.
That doesn't mean a long, detailed summary, but the main point you've been driving at during the entire
presentation.
What's your main objective?
Remind your audience of the benefits of working with you or your company.
Make it a logical conclusion.
End with a call to action, such as clarifying a work plan and encouraging clients to work on it.
Even if the call to action is nothing more than asking for another meeting.
So the ending of your speech is a prime opportunity.
People often remember what they've heard last end on a high and hopeful note.
Make sure that in the last 30 to 60s of your presentation, your listeners understand precisely what
you're trying to tell them and what change in their thought or behavior you're advocating.
Again, be sure to identify actions that are simple, straightforward, and easily executed.
The audience should be able to mentally connect their actions with a positive outcome for themselves
or for the greater good.
Present all the necessary actions and make sure the most critical tasks for success are emphasized.

--- Meeting Minutes – Capturing the Outcome ---

In general.
We've got to send out the meeting presentation and minutes within 24 hours after the meeting, because
after a meeting is over, everyone scurries back to their desks to check their email messages and resume
work.
They may quickly forget about the action items they just took on your mission, to produce minutes that
remind everyone what needs to happen next, and assure them their meeting time was well spent.
In the further reading section, I've also attached a typical Management Consulting meeting minutes
template.
These five suggestions will help you prepare to write minutes that yield results.
First, use a consistent format.
People refer to minutes to remember what the group decided and who's in charge of doing what.
Next, help that information pop out with a consistent format that people will see each time.
Include discussion recaps and key them to the agenda topic they match.
No need to give a word for word account, nor should you editorialize.
An example John feels we need to look into industry averages as well as our company's numbers for the
past few years before finalising our sales goals.
Be specific when it really counts if the group makes a major decision.
Includes synopses of the discussions, debate, and conclusions.
A vague account will make your minutes less valuable.
List complete names and titles under an attendee's headline at the start of your minutes.
Should someone refer to them two years later, they might not know who John was.
And finally, present action steps and deadlines.
Clearly, by using bullets, underlining or bolding keywords, make sure attendees can see at a glance
what's expected of them.

--- Meeting Minutes Template ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Q&A Sessions – Handling Questions and Answers ---

The Q&amp;A section of your speech is your time to shine.
Be sure to allow enough time for this important segment, because the more prepared you are, the better
relationship you'll build with your audience and the more credible you'll come across.
Of all possible presentation elements opening stories, demonstrations, closing the Q&amp;A has the tendency
to make even well-versed speakers lose control and fall flat, as it's usually near the end of the presentation.
A poorly handled Q&amp;A session leaves the audience with a negative impression of the presenter's message.
Don't let this happen to you.
One common fear that causes many presenters to dread the Q&amp;A session is the fear of the unknown.
Questions.
This fear, like most, is unfounded, as the reality is that the presenter controls the situation.
The audience can ask any question, but the presenter chooses how to respond.
First thing you should do is create eye contact with the audience and pay additional attention to your
gesture.
Sometimes shaking your body could be a sign of incompetence.
So consider your body as an immovable object and take deep breaths.
During the questions.
Don't interrupt the questioner.
Let them finish.
Once they I finish.
Try and repeat it in your understanding so they can reconfirm their key questions and give you more
time to think about it at the same time.
In general, your answers should be brief and direct.
Your responses should not be mini presentations and your answer should be based on your analysis.
It should be factual.
If the questioner raised a difficult or sensitive question, remember to consider emotions of all audiences
and avoid potential misunderstanding.
Sometimes management consultants should also prepare for tough questions.
Suppose you're presenting your unit's new strategic plan to a group of anxious managers and employees,
or the CEO has asked you to go to each regional office and explain upcoming layoffs.
What are these situations have in common?
The great potential for resistance.
Here's how to handle it.
First, anticipate the tough questions before you present.
Write down whatever objections you think they may come up with and brainstorm how you'll respond.
Run your responses by a trusted colleague to make sure you'll give those objections a fair hearing.
Second, your attitude is also very crucial.
In short, you should be gracious, not defensive.
Offensive show curiosity and enthusiasm in both the tone and content of your responses.
Replies such as that's a great question, and here's why.
Make it clear that you have already thought out about things from the audience's perspective.
Be open to exploring options you haven't considered, and the people raising them will be more likely
to hear you out too.
Then don't try to be all things to everyone.
If people raise questions that go beyond the scope of your presentation, don't hesitate to say so.
They'll understand you had to draw a line somewhere.
Meanwhile, you need to answer questions honestly when you don't.
When you know the answer, articulate it clearly and briefly.
And when you don't know it, admit it either directly to the questioner, to another source, or offer
by doing some digging yourself to find out.
Write down questions you can't address on the spot to demonstrate your commitment to answering them.
To wrap up, the Q&amp;A section may be the last chance to leave a strong impression, so don't end abruptly
after the Q&amp;A.
It feels incomplete and unsatisfying to the audience, and you'll miss an opportunity to reinforce your
message.
Wrap up the discussion with a brief summary.

--- Debriefing Your Presentation ---

You wrapped up your presentation by outlining next steps for the audience.
Of course, you'll follow through on the end of your commitments, but you have an obligation to honestly
assess the talk you just gave and sharpen your skills before the next one.
No matter how well you've planned your presentation, the act of delivering it will often expose flaws,
gaps, or other shortcomings.
Even if you're a polished presenter.
You may discover small glitches, such as a slide that couldn't be read from the back of the room,
or bigger ones like a missing step in a process you outlined.
Make a list of those flaws as soon as possible, no more than an hour or two after your presentation
ends, if it's feasible.
Incorporate the changes into your slides and the other master files within a few days.
Try and reconstruct and correct the problems weeks or months later.
Always yields worse results.
You can easily identify minor ones, such as weak opening remarks or awkward attempts at humour the
moment they happen.
Just look at the audience's reaction.
Are people nodding or is everyone sitting dead still?
Watching a video recording of the event will also help you see trouble spots.
Think of specific fixes for next time and write them down.
If you ran into technical problems, they may have thrown your whole talk off track, but those two
are relatively simple to fix.
Perhaps you really didn't know how to use the projector and it slowed you down or made you fumble.
Learn to use it for the next time.
Enlist an assistant if it's appropriate.
Chronic issues, such as your general comfort level and skill in delivery require more work.
If you felt very nervous the entire time, or you found yourself clinging to notes or stammering despite
having rehearsed thoroughly, you may need some coaching.
And finally, you need to ask your colleagues for feedback.
If other colleagues were also in the presentation, tap them for advice on how to improve it and how
to become a better presenter.
Set up one on one meetings to receive that feedback.
A quick how did I do in the colleague is likely to generate a polite, perhaps less than honest response,
particularly if other people are within earshot.
Your meetings should be brief and informal, but don't be afraid to ask for people's frank reactions,
both to the content and the delivery of your presentation.
It takes a long time to master presentation skills, but if you continuously work to improve, your
presentations will become more and more effective and you're standing with your audiences will rise.

--- What Great Consulting Slides Should Look Like ---

I've said it many times and I'll say it again great slides have to be clean, simple, minimal in color,
and laser focused in message.
They should deliver impact without clutter.
But what does that mean in practice?
That's what I'm going to show you today.
If I were coaching a BCG or McKinsey consultant or guiding one of my teams back when I was a partner,
this is exactly the approach I'd walk them through.
It's comprehensive, but not overwhelming.
You could read textbooks like the Pyramid Principle.
They're fine, but honestly, most of them are overengineered.
You'll get more value seeing this in action in video with clear commentary.
So here's where we start consulting lives and breathes in the headline.
When partners review decks, they don't dive into the content.
They skim the headlines.
The first time you present your storyboard, that's all they read.
If the logic doesn't hold up in the headlines alone, the deck is broken.
So no data dumps, no vague two word placeholders.
Say exactly what you mean and say something that matters.
Be insightful.
If your headline doesn't teach me something new or provoke a thought, then it's just noise.
There's one golden rule I live by.
If you have to explain your slide before someone gets it, your slide is wrong, I mean it.
Your deck should speak for itself.
You should be able to hand your slide over, leave the room, and still have someone walk away with
the key insights.
That's how you know it's solid.
So when consultants present and say, let me explain what I was trying to do here, I stopped them immediately.
If it's not clear just from the deck, it's not ready.
What does that mean structurally?
It means your slides need to work as standalone documents.
Each slide should make a point and back it up.
Period.
The logic should unfold from slide to slide.
Building a story.
And within each slide, the vertical structure matters too.
The headline states the insight, the body supports it and everything aligns.
The rule.
More white space than content.
Large readable text.
Clean, consistent visuals.
Now let me show you how I review decks.
If a junior consultant hands me a presentation, I don't read the charts.
First.
I cover up the content and read only the headlines.
That's it.
If the storyline doesn't make sense at that level, then we don't move forward.
And only when the headlines land.
Only then we go into the supporting analysis.
Your headline needs to be precise and strong.
No corporate fluff.
If you say the scope of this study is to evaluate x, y, z, stop, That's meaningless.
Instead, say we're recommending for immediate actions to reduce costs by 12%.
Direct.
Specific.
Powerful.
Clarity is everything.
Don't say a few short term challenges.
Be specific.
Say the first challenge is building morale through immediate cost measures.
And make sure the language you use is clear across cultures and time.
Avoid outdated idioms, slang, or references that won't age well.
Think long term.
A good slide should still look sharp ten years from now.
And while we're at it, avoid using flashy photos, copyrighted images, or anything controversial.
You're a consultant, not a meme designer.
Keep things neutral, timeless, and professional.
Don't use Google Images just because it's convenient.
Respect.
Ethics.
That's part of the job when it comes to layout, this matters.
Think about the flow.
Use running headers.
If you're going across multiple sections, use footnotes for sources or explanations.
Not because people don't trust you, but so others can follow your thinking, even years later.
That's how you build institutional knowledge.
And if you're diagramming a process, make it clear don't add complexity for the sake of looking smart.
Simplicity wins.
Always.
Your body should serve one purpose.
Support the headline if you're going to include a chart.
Make it simple, clear and consistent.
All fonts, same size.
Use arrows only when they point to something important.
Don't color code things randomly.
Train your audience's eye.
If green means Ontario Power generation, it should always mean Ontario Power Generation.
If your slide says bagels dominate sales and I can't see bagels on the graph, that's a problem.
Choose the right chart, format it well highlight what matters and let it breathe.
The right chart, poorly presented, loses the story.
Now let's talk about kickers.
Not every firm uses them, but I love them.
A kicker is a punchy one liner at the bottom of the slide that says so what?
It drives the point home.
Or sets up the next slide.
Use it only when you've got something insightful to add.
Don't force it, but when it works, it really works.
So why do we go through all this?
Because great presentations don't just inform, they persuade.
In strategy consulting, your job isn't just to deliver findings.
It's to change minds, change behavior, change organizations.
Your deck is your tool.
And the cleaner, sharper, and more compelling, it is the better chance you have of making that change
real.
You've got to plan your presentation with intention.
Who's in the room?
What do they need to hear?
What's standing in the way of action?
How do you unblock that?
That's why we do pre-reads.
That's why we pre present.
Because when you finally show the full deck, it shouldn't be the first time your audience hears the
key ideas.
No surprises, just alignment.
After the meeting, you review what worked, what didn't.
Did we hit the goal?
What feedback did we get?
Plan.
Do.
Review.
Always.
Now let me give you a practical trick.
When I storyboard, I don't just sketch one slide.
I draw out a full nine frame matrix, three rows, three columns, and write headlines.
Then I read them out loud.
Does the story build?
Does it flow?
Does it make sense without the body text?
If not, I go back and revise.
That's how we built our training program.
We didn't just wing it because I'm a partner with insights.
You can't Google.
We did the work because excellence matters.
At the end of the day, you write for your audience, not for yourself.
You organize around insight, not effort.
Your words, your structure, your tone, your slides.
They all have one job to tell a story that makes change happen.
And that's what separates the good from the great.

--- How to Use ChatGPT to Review and Improve Your Consulting Slides ---

And this right here is what great consulting slides look like in my eyes.
It's not about flashy visuals or clever transitions.
It's about clarity, structure, and insight that stands on its own.
This is the essence of the entire lesson, the heart of what world class consulting communication is
all about.
Because in this business, great slides don't just present information.
They drive decisions, shift perspectives, and influence change.
To help you apply everything we've covered and truly level up your own slides, I've taken all of these
principles and distilled them into a single, ready to use ChatGPT prompt.
This is your secret weapon.
Here's how to use it.
First, go to the next lecture and copy the prompt template.
Take a moment to review it and customize anything you need.
Adjust it to match the context of your project, your client, or the type of feedback you're looking
for.
Once you're happy with it, open ChatGPT.
Then paste the prompt into ChatGPT and upload the PowerPoint file you want to review.
ChatGPT will immediately get to work analyzing each slide, identifying what's working and what needs
improvement.
It'll point out headline issues, structure problems, layout flaws, or anything else that's holding
you back from delivering real impact.
Want to take it further?
You absolutely can ask ChatGPT for side by side comparisons before and after headline rewrites.
Layout adjustments.
Cleaner formatting ideas.
Dive deeper into message checks or horizontal vertical logic validation.
It's like having a partner level coach sitting next to you, giving real time, personalized feedback
whenever you need it.
Whether you're preparing for a big client meeting, a strategy review, or just want to improve your
craft, this tool gives you the edge.
So go ahead, copy the prompt, upload your slides, run it in ChatGPT, and start building presentations
that don't just inform, but persuade and inspire.

--- Template – Management Consulting Slide Review Prompt ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Next Steps ---

Having successful management consulting presentation is probably the most significant element of a consultant's
career.
Throughout an executive update meeting, you're going to discuss major business problems and solutions
with C-level executives, boards of directors, or sometimes even the president of a country.
This is the time when you have the opportunity to create a connection with your client and eventually
transform that connection into a major business decision that could possibly change a multi-million
business model or the future of a country.
As I stated in the beginning, people buy in to help and advice from those who they trust, and they
trust people they like, and they like individuals with whom they've got a great connection.
Your consulting presentation offers the opportunity to make this connection spend a while creating it.
You'll probably understand a lot about yourself and have a great way to create connection with your
clients.
Be enthusiastic when you actually present.
Remember, enthusiasm is contagious.
Your mannerisms will convey significantly without saying a word.
Focus on your body language.
Pay attention to your natural delivery and your voice.
These can help you put people at ease and keep their confidence in you at a high point.
And lastly, don't forget about the presentation itself.
These things might appear to be common sense, but a majority of business people today don't give them
a second thought.
I want you to be conscious and intention related when you're thinking about this area.
When you work on these areas, your storyline will be more compelling and pervasive.
More importantly, your clients are going to feel more confident with your advice and act upon it.
I'd like to thank you for taking the time out of your tight schedule to join this course.
I'm looking forward to connecting with you in the future and of course, hearing about your excellent
career achievements.

--- Course keynotes ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Thank You for Completing the Course – Here’s Your Strategy Toolkit ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]
