

=== Welcome to the course! So happy you're here. ===


--- Hi! I'm Alexa. It's nice to meet you . ---

(bright music)
Alexa: Hi, I'm Alexa Fischer,
bestselling You to Me instructor
and a woman on a mission
to help you ignite your light.
You see, you have this light, we all do,
inside of us.
And when you can tap into it
and ignite that thousand watts of amazing energy,
you literally have the power to inspire the world.
Now, I know that sounds grand,
but that is truly my philosophy.
In life, we manage to block this light
with fears and insecurities and doubts,
and while that's totally understandable,
it's not serving you to stay hidden.
In fact, it's your job to do the work
that it takes to release those fears
and begin to tap into your personal power,
that light.
Now, when you do,
you build confidence.
You find that true voice,
you stand in your light,
so that when you're shining on stage,
on camera, one on one,
you actually help the other person do the same thing.
It's amazing.
So I have made it my life's work
to learn and use the skills that I've had
as a professional actress,
which you can Google me and find out.
But more importantly,
to take all of those skills
and give them to every day people.
I have taught CEOs, huge companies,
even women transitioning out of homelessness
because at the end of the day,
we're all the same.
And when you have tools,
just simple tools combined with inspiration,
you can literally figure out and achieve anything.
This course is all about
becoming an amazing dynamic presenter.
But the key skills that you're going to learn
here in the class
you can actually apply
to all aspects of your life.
So it's a pleasure to meet you.
I look forward to working together.
(bright music)

--- What's Inside the Course ---

Instructor: So let's talk about what's inside the course.
My goal was to create a course that is simple
yet very effective, from taking you from the moment that you
find out that you have a presentation
to literally what happens after you walk off stage.
Life stages present huge opportunities for you
but most of us, because we're nervous
or insecure about how we're going to do,
we tend to wing it, which is absolutely the way to
have the worst presentation ever.
So instead, I am literally going to give you step
by step tools to first really plan out your path to success
and all the action steps that you're going to take
in between to literally building your content.
How do you create amazing engaging content itself?
To working on delivery and learning about
dynamic body language and your voice,
and really connecting with the audience.
I'm also going to be addressing certain fears
and insecurities that we have
and also practical tools to get calm
and grounded the day of the event.
These are my game day secrets.
And then lastly, how you can really think about yourself
as a communicator on life's bigger stages.
Because at the end of the day, you magnificent you,
are your own brand, and when you step into this role
of greater visibility, you literally can leapfrog
to bigger and better opportunities for yourself
and you can be in service to others.
So it is time to release your hesitation about being
on stage and learn into, learn how to tap
into the the actionable steps it's going to
take to make you perform like a pro.
Trust me, I speak from the stage all the time
and there is no greater joy
than having that audience in the palm of your hands
and being able to be in service to them.
So let me show you exactly how to do that inside the course.
(calm motivating music)


=== Let's Get Started: How to Set Yourself Up for Success ===


--- COURSE HANDBOOK! You'll want to print this, I promise. ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Your Mindset: How to Create a Winning Attitude ===


--- The Essential Checklist for Getting Organized ---

(gentle music)
-: Oh, procrastination can be a powerful beast.
But I am here to tell you
that one of the most critical things that you can do
to set yourself up for success is to really map out
some really key details in advance.
You have a presentation coming up.
You likely know the venue,
the number of people you anticipate.
Are you going to be on a stage?
Is there going to be a podium?
How long is the presentation?
What's the name of the event?
Who is going to be in the audience?
What kind of collaboration are you gonna work with
with anyone else on your team to get ready?
All of these juicy details are actually going to inform you
in the presentation process.
So included in the this lesson is a quick checklist
of all of these things that I'm going to ask you
to know in advance, because inside them
are some pretty amazing clues, and throughout the course,
we're gonna refer to some of these details
so you can prepare really specifically,
whether you're presenting on a big stage
to a big room is just slightly different for a small venue.
So the more details you know, the more you can be prepared.
So, check out the checklist in advance, including the date
of your presentation, because we wanna really map out
all of the steps and deadlines along the way.
That way, you will never have a fear of procrastinating.
It's so simple.
You don't even have to worry about it anymore.
All you're gonna do is follow along
with the information that you lay out in advance
and the deadlines that you create along the way.
We'll go back to this inside the course
to make sure that you're staying on track.
But all you need to do is follow the steps.
I can't stress that enough.
All right, check out the handout.
Make sure you fill it out.
This is one of the first things that you're gonna do
as we begin this process and then you'll literally
have a roadmap for your success.
Trust me on this one.
(gentle music)


=== Building Your Content: How to Prepare an Amazing, Memorable Presentation ===


--- The Secret Behind the Best Presentations ---

(gentle music)
-: So I'm actually gonna give you now
one of the biggest secrets
to creating the best presentations.
I mean, this one lesson alone
is probably what's gonna make this course
so impactful for you, and that is,
your presentation needs to be totally about your audience,
not you.
Because I know you're here taking this class
because there is a part of you
that is maybe a little self-conscious,
or maybe you've done a presentation in the past
and you haven't felt very strong about it.
You felt nervous.
You were worried about if you came across as an authority
or if people were judging you or if you looked nervous
or if you sweated a lot
or if you kind of played around with your hands.
All of that, all of those worries,
are making you focus on you,
you.
And it's natural, it's normal, right?
You're in front of people.
You're up on stage, there's nobody else around.
Obviously the attention is on you.
But people can feel your nervousness.
They can feel your hesitation.
They can feel your self consciousness.
So we want to anticipate that pattern by saying, no.
You know what?
By the time I walk on that stage,
it is not about me anymore.
Why, 'cause I've done my work.
I've prepared,
I've really worked on my material
and I've built my material with my audience in mind.
Who are they?
How can I be of service to them?
How do I want the audience to feel?
This is the game changer for making it about you,
being self-conscious and nervous,
ah, what are they thinking about me?
To forget about me.
How can I be in service to you?
The funny thing is, I'm doing this right now
looking into the lens, creating this course for you.
You see, I have taught tens of thousands of students
at this point, and I've gotten to know a few really well,
and when I create a course,
I'm not thinking about myself anymore.
I'm looking through the lens and imagining
the person whose life I can touch through this teaching.
It's not about me anymore.
People think, oh, you're a professional actress
or you know how to perform.
I'm not thinking about that.
I'm not playing a character.
I'm myself, I make funny faces.
I don't care.
Why, because I wanna be in service to you.
That means more to me than anything.
So when you are thinking about your presentation
and you've gone through the checklist,
you know who your audience is going to be.
Maybe you know the topic of the conference
that you're going to be speaking at.
How can your presentation
be of service to them?
It needs to be all about them.
And we know this
when we speak to our friends and family.
We know this when we share a story
and we really want to cheer somebody up
or make them smile or amaze them
with our crazy story about our vacation.
We're thinking about them.
We're not thinking about us.
So when we're really comfortable,
that's the truth where we're coming from.
So that is the truth that I want you to build
your presentation around,
be in service to your audience.
Make it be about them, and then instantly, poof.
You don't have to be nervous about yourself anymore.
So that is what I want you to think about.
In the handout, in that sort of workbook
that I provided at the beginning of the course,
I really encourage you to write out
who is in the audience?
What is the one thing I want them
to take away from my presentation?
How do I want them to feel?
I want you to really think about how do I want them to feel?
We do this naturally in conversations.
We do this naturally, maybe subconsciously.
How do you wanna make the audience feel?
Think about it, think about them.
Stay focused on them, and then,
as we go through the content building of your presentation,
you're going to be seeing it through that lens.
Cool?
This is a game changer.
This is my biggest secret ever.
So write that out and then refer back to it
when we start getting to building your materials.
(gentle music)


=== Show Time: Tips to Looking Great On Stage ===


--- Why you Must Create Your WHY. (And why that matters) ---

(light music)
-: You know, I'm just like you.
I am a lifelong learner
and one of my favorite speakers and authors is Simon Sinek.
And he has this great book called "Start With Why".
Now, the way that I interpret this
is the why for me is connecting with that 1000 watt light
that's inside of you.
To me, everything is generated
from this heart centered place which,
as Simon says, is your why.
What is your passion?
What is your reason for doing whatever it is that you do?
You know, it can't be about making money.
And it can't just be about,
oh, I wanna impress the audience.
I want them to think I'm a great speaker.
Really? What do you really want?
What is your why?
Why do you really wanna stand on stage
and share this particular piece of information?
You've already thought about your audience,
now you can be of service to them.
Now I want you to turn your attention inward
for a moment and say, well, what is your why?
What is in it for you?
Now, I'll give you a little story about for me.
Now, I love people.
I've loved people since I was a little girl.
I just was always talking to people
and fascinated by people.
And I turned that love of people into a love of acting.
That is the study of the human spirit.
It is about interpreting your body and your voice
to literally become different people.
But the amazing thing was that was my why.
My why was my love of people.
I translated that into acting,
but then cut to I was a professional actress,
working on TV in many commercials.
I've probably sold you something on TV.
Anyway, I was on set one day
and I started to build this awareness
that my activity of acting was so narrow
because I was wasting so much time on set, waiting.
Waiting for the lights, waiting for the sound.
Waiting and waiting and waiting and waiting.
There's so much waiting in the actual business
of making television and film and commercials.
So for me, my why was not being fed really.
And one day on the set of Bones,
I was playing a character.
Something bad had happened to my character,
and I was laying down on the dirty floor
after 15 hours of shooting with fake blood
coming outta my mouth.
Ugh. And I thought to myself, what am I doing with my life?
'Cause I wasn't connected.
My life wasn't in connection with my why anymore.
I love acting, but the business
of being a professional actress was not enough for me.
So I began doing something else.
I started teaching.
I was one of the first instructors on Udemy.
And I started teaching and talking about how I could give
my training, my methodology,
my passion and curiosity about people,
and methodologies to help them connect to their light.
That lit up my why.
And now it's the reason why I love creating courses.
I love making blogs on my website, alexafisher.com
I love speaking from big stages.
This is the reason why I am lit up.
I am connected to my light.
So now, I'm inviting you to do the same thing.
Don't be worried about this presentation.
You're gonna be amazing.
But let's get to the light of it.
Your 1000 watts. What is your why?
Be honest with yourself.
Why do you wanna be so?
Why do you wanna do this presentation?
Why do you wanna do a good job on this presentation?
What are some personal goals for yourself?
Why do you think that your audience
will love this information?
Why do you think people in your organization
will benefit from hearing you speak
with authority and charisma and conviction on stage?
Why? Why? Give yourself the gift of that awareness.
Because that's gonna be the fuel
that's gonna keep you on track.
When you're connected to your why,
you're gonna be motivated to keep watching your course,
doing the course materials,
and there will be a temptation to get busy with life.
Stay on track, know your why, connect with your why.
It is that fuel that's gonna get you across the finish line.
I promise you.
(light music)


=== Your Game Day Skills: Tools to Use on the Day of Your Presentation ===


--- Get Rid of Your Negative Thoughts (Like, now.) ---

(calm music)
Instructor: So if you're taking this course and you are,
I'm so proud of you,
chances are you have some negative thoughts
around public speaking.
And negative thoughts
are a natural part of the human experience
but did you know
that negative thoughts
are actually draining your energy?
They're literally weakening all the muscles in your body.
I've taught this in several of other of my classes
about the power of energy muscle testing.
Go ahead, look it up.
There's all kinds of information about it
but it shows you that when we have a positive thought,
it literally strengthens all the muscles in our body
like spinach does with Popeye.
And when we have a negative thought,
it's like Kryptonite with Superman.
Are you with me?
And I'm gonna throw in one more metaphor.
When you tap into your thousand watt energy,
you're like Wonder Woman.
Okay, enough of that.
So negative thoughts, while natural and normal,
especially when it comes to doing things
that make us uncomfortable, they're there.
But what happens is we need to take them
out of the recesses of our minds
and the shadows of our thinking,
and we need to bring them out into the light of day
so they instantly lose power.
I'm gonna repeat that again.
When we have negative thoughts,
instead of pretending that they're not there,
we are going to take them out of the darkness,
the shadows of our mind,
and we're gonna put them into the light of day,
and here's how we do that.
Right now, I want you to go to your handbook,
and in your handbook that comes with this course,
the beginning part of the course,
you're going to write down on bullet points
all the negative thoughts that you have
about public speaking and presenting.
It can be specifically related
to an upcoming speaking engagement.
It can be something that's happened to you in the past.
It can be anything from, I feel so embarrassed
when I'm on stage, my palm sweat when I'm on stage,
I feel like I'm a terrible public speaker,
whatever those thoughts that you're aware,
if you were to monitor your thoughts a little bit,
what do you think about when it comes to public speaking?
I have negative thoughts
when it relates to doing other aspects of my life.
I have loved public speaking,
but when it comes to other aspects of my life,
I really need to and I do tease them out
and really look at them
just so I can see whether or not they're real.
Because here's what happens.
When we really look at them
objectively on the page without any emotion,
we get to decide for ourselves, huh?
Is this really real?
So say for example,
you're afraid that people are going to laugh at you.
You see it on the page.
Hmm, people are going to laugh at me.
Do you really think people are gonna laugh at you?
Hmm, do you really think, let's say your sentence
was, I'm afraid I'm gonna lose my job.
Do you really think you're gonna lose your job?
Let's say if you forget what you wanna say.
We wanna understand where these negative thoughts are
and just acknowledge them
but here's the real trick.
Just by getting them out into the open,
into the light of day,
you're about 50% to overcoming them completely
but let's take that, the next 50%.
And that is to transform
the negative to something more positive.
Now I'm gonna be giving you some energy exercises
at the end of the course
and we're gonna refer back
to this negative list
when we learn about them,
one is called holding the neuro,
and we're gonna talk about that later on.
But for right now, I want you to look at that list
and I want you to pick:
one, what is the sort
of main negative thought that you have?
So it could be, I am a terrible public speaker,
or I hate public speaking.
And we wanna take that phrase
and we wanna shift it to something more positive.
Now if I were to tell you
to go from I hate public speaking
to I love public speaking,
I bet you wouldn't buy that, right?
That wouldn't feel even remotely truthful.
So let's not go to this such extreme.
Let's just transform it a little bit
to make it a little more positive.
So instead of, I hate public speaking,
which is literally draining your energy,
gets your Kryptonite, it's blocking your light,
instead we're going to go
to I feel confident public speaking.
I feel confident public speaking.
People really enjoy my presentations.
I totally got this speaking gig.
Something that is truthful to you
but is still firmly rooted in what I call camp positive.
Now once you have that new phrase for yourself,
go ahead and write it on a Post-it note.
I want you to memorize this statement.
I want you to see it in your world.
If it's embarrassing to you
to have that Post-it all written out,
memorize the statement and put a Post-it,
let's say with a smiley face on it,
and put it around on your desk,
in your bathroom, in your car,
around your world
because I want you to reinforce this idea
over and over and over again.
Takes a while to break a habit
and you've had a habit of thinking of yourself
as a bad public speaker
or a nervous public speaker,
anything, whatever your phrase is.
And we need to transform
that into something way more positive
and we do that by building that new habit.
Every time you see that smiley face,
you're gonna be like, yep,
thinks to yourself,
I'm a confident public speaker.
I got this.
This thing, I got.
I'm good, I love public speaking.
Whatever your word is, every time you see it, think it,
see it, think it, see it, think it.
And then, you have a new habit.
This fuel is going to be your critical fuel for success.
When you have a positive attitude, everything is easier
but we're gonna talk about the positive thoughts
in the next video.
Find your power affirmation.
Get rid of the negative thoughts.
Just get them out in the open.
You deserve to have all of your thousand watts shining.
That's no room for fear.
(inspirational bright music)


=== The Aftermath: How to Create Bigger Opportunities for Yourself ===


--- You Got This: Be Positive and Proactive ---

(positive music)
-: For those of you who know my work,
you know that I am the queen of positive energy.
I will tell you,
if there is one thing that is going to pave the way
for you to make an amazing impression on stage,
for you to stay proactive as you move through this course
and as you literally prepare your presentation,
it is your positive energy.
Now, in the previous video we talked
about how your negative energy is literally your kryptonite.
It is just draining you.
So when you sit down to look
at your calendar and you've mapped out those, you know,
today I'm going to be practicing
and if the minute you go like,
oh, I don't have time for this,
you are zapping your personal power.
You are draining yourself
of that valuable fuel that you need to succeed.
Now, here's the deal.
Energy is contagious.
Now, this is going to apply, of course,
to your presentation, and of course,
to the time that you're gonna be on stage,
but it also applies to all aspects of your life.
And we know this to be true.
When somebody comes into your office
and they're in a bad mood, do you feel it?
Does it affect you?
Let's get personal.
When you're in a bad mood
and you walk into your house, do your kids feel it?
Does your spouse feel it?
They do.
Now, we all have negative thoughts.
We all have bad days.
We have bad moments.
So I'm not saying that you have to be positive all the time.
That would be impossible.
I have my bad days and bad moments.
But when you are aware of the power of positive thoughts,
you can make sure and put it,
make it your intention to stay positive,
especially as you do something that, naturally,
is a growth area, it's a stretch area for you.
So, it's a habit that when you think
about presenting your upcoming presentation,
it's gonna make you feel a little, mm, uneasy.
So that's why your positive energy is going
to help counteract your natural reaction
to this big opportunity in front of you.
Be intentional with your positive energy.
If you need to find a great song and dance it out,
like get out some heebie jeebies, like,
put yourself in a good mood.
I love to listen to music as I'm cleaning my house
or doing dishes,
because I simply can't be in a bad mood
listening to great tunes.
So find the ways for you
to jumpstart yourself into a positive energy
as you are working through every step of this course.
Stay positive, my friends.
Stay positive, stay positive, stay positive
and it will make this process so much easier and,
and you're going to radiate that positive energy
not only when you practice
but more importantly when you hit that stage.
Fueled with how much positive energy you've spent
all along the way.
Don't save it.
Be positive now.
(positive music)


=== BONUS MATERIAL ===


--- Don’t Go it Alone: The Importance of Enlisting a Friend ---

(calm music)
-: So I have to do it.
I have to do it.
I have to bring up that word again,
procrastination.
And I'll tell you why.
I have taught so many people.
I've taught big companies and executives
and their teams about presentation skills.
And maybe we'll come in
and we'll do a full day immersive,
where we work on the presentation
and I give them all my best tools
and practices and all that good stuff
and then we stagger it.
And I'll come back a week later
and they will have really, really really hoped
that we did all of that work right
when they were in front of me.
But believe me, I told them
that between the time that we did that immersive workshop
and the time I came back, they had to do the work.
They had to do the practice.
Because if you don't practice, you don't make it your own.
You're going to get a lot of information in this course.
And in this course,
I'm literally sharing you all my best tips
and tools and techniques to have you rock it on stage.
But you have to do the work.
You can't just watch the video.
You're only gonna get a slice of it.
It becomes you when you walk the walk and you talk the talk.
So here's where I am going to encourage you
to enlist a friend.
That's right.
You gotta get a buddy and make sure
that as you calendar out what you did
in the beginning of the course,
all of the steps that you're gonna need to take,
between the time you got the speaking gig
to actually doing the speaking gig,
there's some really key moments
that you wanna enlist a friend,
especially as it comes time to practice.
Practice cannot just happen in our mind
or just in our shower.
There's great visualization exercises
and we can talk about that.
But it really is about putting yourself in the situation
getting up on your feet
and acting out, presenting in real time to a human,
listening human being.
Because you get very necessary feedback
and you start to see the areas
that you don't remember what you're going to say
or the slides that don't really work
or you get to test out the outfit.
You can ask someone's opinion.
How do you think this outfit makes me look on stage?
Is it too busy?
Is it not professional enough?
Or is it too buttoned up?
Enlist a friend.
This level of humility, I guarantee, will also inspire them.
To show them, what it really takes to be a pro.
You may see speakers on stage.
Steve Jobs was a classic example.
When he was presenting any new Apple announcement,
he made it look so easy with his little black turtleneck.
Like it was just one conversation.
But trust me,
he worked very hard to do what he did on stage.
When I was on the Today Show,
I had two minutes to cover tons of information.
And you can look at that clip on the Today Show,
which I think I can give you a link to,
but you can look at that clip on the Today Show
and think, oh, she's been doing this forever.
She can do it.
-: Overcome your fear of chit chat
and here to help you is
our cocktail party motivational speaker, Alexa Fischer.
Good-
-: Hello!
-: John is- he's got charisma.
-: I get it. But you know what?
You can actually prepare
for a cocktail party before you even walk in.
Your energy is contagious.
So if you're nervous, people feel that.
-: Mmm hmm.
-: So you wanna be positive, be upbeat
and bring that energy right into the party.
-: Okay, let's start to the beginnings.
-: Let's go.
-: We walk through the party door.
-: Yes, you walk in.
Now right off the bat, you're going make some decisions.
-: Hey, everybody!
Oh you look familiar. Hi!
See now, I'm creeped out.
I'm going home.
-: Stay positive.
-: Stay in the safe zone.
-: Stay positive.
Before you walk in, let me tell you,
there's a quick decision that you're going to have to make
and we've got some choices.
-: Okay.
When you walk into the room, you can decide,
okay, am I gonna make a beeline for the bar
or am I going to decide to hit the dance floor?
Or are you going to scan the room and sort of take it in?
-: I'm doing them in that order.
-: I do the bar.
-: Hit the bar, throw down a few,
then hit the dance floor, then scan the room.
-: But the truth is, when you scan the room
you have an opportunity to decide who you naturally
want to talk to or talk to you.
-: Okay? So I take Rebecca and Jerry and I say, I know them.
I'll talk to them.
-: You can't resist.
-: Exactly.
Do you know how hard I practice for that?
How I enlisted my friends to pretend
that they were talking at me at the same time,
so that I would have to keep going and keep going,
keep going.
And at the end I'd say, what's the time?
We timed it.
I went over and over again, over and over again
because I knew that I wasn't going to wing it
on the Today Show.
It takes practice and it takes friends.
So see if you can find somebody who is willing to
towards the end when you're really ready,
to get it up on its feet.
But even before,
as you're finishing your slide deck, bring it to somebody.
Get their feedback.
Do not wait until the end.
You will be held so much more accountable
if you actually book the time with somebody else.
Deadlines matter.
Deadlines will keep you on track
and enlisting a friend will give you
that really critical accountability.
So don't be shy, people.
Find your friends and offer to do the same thing for them.
These are tools that you can use literally
in all aspects of your business and your life.
But find a friend.
So much better, so much more effective
and I think they'll thank you for it.
(calm music)

--- Be Engaging + Memorable: Become a Great Storyteller ---

(gentle music)
-: Now we're gonna talk about
one of the most important things of your presentation,
and that is your content.
Now, there are lots of different kinds of presentations
with different goals and different types of content.
So I wanna focus on one aspect
that's really applicable to any presentation,
and that is the power of great stories.
Now, I am sure it's tempting to share facts,
and in some case, a fact may be really important
to conveying an idea,
but bring that fact to life with stories.
Because remember, at the end of the day,
we can Google pretty much about anything.
So we want to make that story come to life
and make it more personal to you by a story.
Now, one of the best ways to see incredible stories
inside of a presentation are TED Talks.
TED Talks have become so huge
precisely because they have an incredible way
of conveying really big ideas,
but really in exciting and engaging ways.
So go ahead and go to the TED website,
and then start looking up topics that interest you.
You can even search topics that are related to your topic
just to get a feel for how they can convey
big ideas in that compelling way, in a storytelling way.
But remember, as you are thinking about your content,
really lean on the work that we did earlier in the course.
We outlined who the audience is.
What is the goal of the presentation itself?
Is it part of a bigger conference?
What does your audience hope to get?
What is your why?
Why do you wanna convey that information to the audience?
How do you wanna make them feel?
Then you can actually outline, or map out,
or even brainstorm a list of related stories
that can help bring that point to life.
I want you to really think about
what stories would help support
your ideas that you wanna convey,
the ideas that are beyond just the facts,
or just this happened and this happened and this happened.
What are the stories that can bring it to life?
Now, earlier, a few lessons ago,
I told you about my own transition
from being a professional actress
to being a teacher and a coach,
and it really was encompassed, true story,
in that moment where I told you,
I was on the set of "Bones"
and I was playing a character, a lawyer, actually,
something bad happened,
and I'm laying on the floor
with this blood coming outta my mouth.
Yes, that's actually the moment.
I'm gonna show you a little picture.
And when I told you that story,
the reason was I wanted to sort of bring you
a little bit into my world.
I wanted to share with you the secret
that there's actually so much time on set,
but I wanted to make your imagination come to life
with hearing a few details.
So that is the power of storytelling.
It has a strong beginning.
It then shares and infuses it with some vivid details,
so you can pop that image in your mind.
And then you sum why is it important
that you told that story?
Because in that moment, laying there,
I realized I had to do something more with my life,
which was the reason I became a teacher.
So use your stories strategically,
and you will find that it will instantly make
your presentation more engaging,
and certainly more memorable,
because stories are the things that we actually remember.
So just to recap, write a list,
a brainstorming list of any story
that could potentially relate to your topic.
See if you can find in that story a strong beginning,
middle, and end,
and make sure that it includes vivid details,
so we really can see what it is that you are talking about.
Bring us on that journey with you.
You can always see amazing examples of this
on pretty much any TED Talk that has any traction.
And then lastly, you can test these stories.
Again, either use your friend that you enlisted,
or just your family members, or anybody.
Share these stories.
Practice telling these stories.
Nobody needs to know that you're practicing,
but you wanna have a sense of which stories
really highlight your message that
you wanted to convey in your presentation.
Identify the stories and practice,
and then you can insert them in
as you build out your content.
(gentle upbeat music)

--- The PREP Method: Outline Your Ideas Easily (Perfect for short notice!) ---

(light music)
-: I wanna share with you another tool
that will help you outline your content.
It might be a little simplistic,
and I'm not suggesting that you only do this,
but it is a very standard writing methodology
that helps keep your ideas concise,
but also it helps have the audience,
one, understand what you're gonna talk about,
see an illustration of it,
and then be reminded of the takeaway.
And it goes like this.
It's called the PREP method.
And PREP stands for Point, Reason, Example, Point.
So you make a point.
Now, again, I'm just gonna go back to my own personal story,
but you can obviously apply this to anything.
The point was, is that, I knew that I loved people.
I'm gonna use my own transition from acting to teaching.
My point was I knew I always loved people,
and yet, I knew that something was missing
in my life of as a professional actress.
The reason I knew this
is because I was so bored on set,
waiting and waiting for the lights,
the sound, the camera, so much waiting.
I felt like I was wasting my time.
The example is, when I was playing character
on the set of "Bones" 15 hours in,
I'm laying there on the dirty floor
in the LA Times building with blood coming outta my mouth,
fake, thank goodness, and I really just, in this moment,
I said, "Oh, universe, please give me a sign.
What am I doing with my life?"
That was true.
And so then I summarize it again.
I go back to the point.
So in that moment, I knew that I had to make a shift.
I knew that I had to reconnect to my why,
and merge my passion with people
with the tools and inspiration
so that they could be the star of their own life,
so that they could unlock all 1000 watts
of their personal power.
Point, Reason, Example, and Point.
Now, as you map out the content for your presentation,
the point can really be related to the reason
why you are giving this presentation in the first place.
Again, we are always building
on the work that you've done previously.
So you know your audience,
you know what would be meaningful for them,
you also know the purpose
of the conference that you are attending,
or whatever the objective is of the event itself.
So what is your unique point of view?
What is your why?
Your unique point of view that is your point.
Then you can make it personal.
What's your reason why you want to highlight this point?
Then we have the example. That's your story.
The importance of stories,
the stories that you've been brainstorming on
and you've been practicing with friends,
and search your story, and then reinforce that why again
with the point, you come back to it.
Point, Reason, Example, and Point.
Now in your presentation,
if you have a short presentation, voila, you're ready.
If you have a longer presentation,
maybe you're going to do three PREPS,
Point, Reason, Example, Point,
and they can build on each other.
But you really wanna make sure
that you're conveying concise ideas
and you're reminding the audience
why they're important to begin with.
You're bringing them on a journey through your story
and then you're reminding them, again,
Point, Reason, Example, Point.
It's a very simple structure, but there is a common pitfall
when people want to jam so much information
in a presentation.
But I gotta tell you, people are only going to remember,
as Maya Angelou said, how you made them feel.
So trust that less is in fact more,
that you don't have to jam so many facts and figures,
and you know, that they really are wanting to go
on a journey with you, and they can always follow up
with you to either get additional information,
to learn more facts,
maybe you wanna even give them a handout
that really outlines some of the details.
But in a presentation with people just listening to you,
and looking at slides quickly,
they're not going to remember all the details.
Trust that.
Lean more towards the stories and conveying an energy,
getting them excited and inspired and curious to learn more.
It's almost like you're teasing them
almost with an elevator pitch for your idea.
But trust that.
(gentle music)
Stories convey that.
Stories that are contained in the PREP method
will help them understand why that story is important.
(gentle music)
So go ahead, as you're mapping out that content,
and use the handout that I provided
to really map it out with that methodology,
and pretty soon, you will come up
with a very conversational way to convey your ideas.
Can't stress that enough.
A very conversational way to map out your ideas.
Try the PREP method. It works.
(upbeat music)

--- Map it Out: The Power of Thought Bubbles ---

(mellow digital music)
-: To build upon the idea of the prep method
is something that I call thought bubbles.
Now, in the upcoming video lesson,
we're gonna be talking about scripting or not scripting,
but I'm gonna give you a little preview for a moment,
and that is my preference is to always be off the script.
The minute that you're on a script,
you're really cutting the audience off
because you're looking down.
So instead, I use something called thought bubbles,
which is the way that we naturally communicate to friends,
or if we're talking off the top of our head,
which basically we're doing all the time.
So, and that is when you've mapped out your ideas
through the prep method, you have this point,
you have a reason, you have an example,
and then you have a point again.
Each of those moments are actually thought bubbles.
They're concepts that you want to anchor yourself around
with some key words.
And again, we're gonna go
staying consistent to my own story of transitioning
from an actress to a speaker and a coach,
and that was the first thought bubble is my love of people.
That would be the phrase that I would think of.
My love of people.
Now, the thought bubble is that idea,
and then very conversationally,
and I've used this example before,
so you can change up the exact wording,
but it's anchored around that first juicy idea,
my love of people.
But then I, when I'm conveying the idea,
I can say, you know, from the time I was a little girl,
I always had this love of people.
I like talking to them, engaging with them,
and I found them deeply curious.
That's the bigger concept.
But when I'm preparing for that moment of talking,
the thought bubble is, I love people.
Now, the second thought bubble is my reason.
So I turned, so my second thought bubble,
the title would be I became an actress.
So my reason is I became an actress,
and I learned the tools of how to convey,
people, their ideas, and objectives,
and their body language, and their voice,
so I could use my love of people in a career profession.
But then, and that's my next thought bubble,
the transition between, so I did this
and then I did this.
the next thought bubble would be, but acting was boring.
So again, I have a main idea, that's my thought bubble.
And then I give myself the freedom
to, around that key idea, to make it conversational.
That way, I'm never relying on a script.
My preparation instead
is mapping out thought bubble,
thought bubble, thought bubble.
In the next video,
we're gonna talk about how do you find those key ideas,
If you're someone who does lean on scripts,
by scripting it out in advance,
but we'll get to that in the next lesson.
The key here is how do you convey your ideas
and remember them by just outlining those key phrases?
Those key phrases then become thought bubbles.
Every slide is going to be a thought bubble.
And so when you work on your slides,
and we're gonna be talking about that soon,
when you work on those slides,
you are going to be mapping out those ideas,
and then you just go from one idea to another idea,
one thought bubble to another thought bubble,
and you bridge it with a transition sentence.
So in the handout,
I'm gonna give you the visual of what that looks like.
You see it now.
And then you're going to literally map out those key ideas,
and then you can write notes about what you wanna say.
When you practice it,
you're practicing by thinking about the thought bubble,
not the text underneath.
Give it a try and see how it goes.
I cannot stress this enough.
It will make you conversational on stage
instead of sounding like a professor.
(mellow digital music)

--- To Script or Not to Script: How to Remember What You Are Going to Say ---

(gentle music)
-: So now you've learned about the PREP Method
and you learned about thought bubbles.
We're gonna be talking about scripting,
but right alongside with scripting
I wanna reiterate about really mapping out your content.
Your entire presentation has its own
what I would call a super objective,
how you wanna make the audience feel?
What do you want them to learn?
It needs to be connected to your why,
and the purpose of your presentation.
So it's going to have what I call a super objective.
Now, it can almost be encompassed in its own PREP.
What is the point of your whole presentation
and what is the reason why you're excited to convey that
to your audience?
Now, the examples may have more than one example.
It may be more than one story.
It may be more than one thought bubble.
You will know based on your content
your goals and objectives of your actual presentation.
And at the end,
you're going to wanna wrap it up with the point,
reiterating the point from the beginning.
That's mapping out your content.
Now, one way to really get into the details
is to script it out.
Now, here's where I wanna be very clear.
For some people,
they're great writers and they write everything out.
If that is a tool that you naturally enjoy,
then by all means do it.
Do it.
Once you've mapped out the content in outline form,
and I'm gonna give you a template to do that,
and you're gonna see that inside the handbook,
map out that content,
and then if you feel better and you're a writer,
go ahead and script the whole thing out.
Type it out.
Think through the thoughts, what stories that you wanna say.
Write it out, write it out, write it out,
write it out, write it out.
And then I want you to read it out loud.
I want you to time yourself.
Just get data, read it out loud, time yourself.
Start to say,
"Okay, well what part of this is actually really good?
What do I wanna get rid of?"
Enlist your friend.
Have them give you any feedback that you want on it.
Pretty soon you'll see what stories are too much.
What could be too little.
What could be amped up with some great adjectives,
make it a little more vivid and memorable.
Does one idea feed off of something else?
Get objective about it.
Literally map it out.
Don't worry anything about the presentation itself.
Don't worry about the slide deck.
You only wanna create this deck
after you really understand your content.
Otherwise, you're gonna go back and forth
and back and forth.
Know your content,
and if you really wanna work on the language of it,
script it all out.
However, this is a big thing,
you will never be reading your script.
Why?
Because the moment you read your script
is the moment you lose your audience,
and it becomes boring, boring, boring, boring, boring.
Now, there's two examples of this,
and I think I can include this,
a little bonus video,
where I do a talk about,
this was a long time ago,
where I show Oprah Winfrey giving a commencement address,
and Steve Jobs...
not Steve Jobs, Bill Gates giving a commencement address.
And Bill really leans heavily on a script.
And I'm gonna ask you, which one is more objective?
You'll see that video in the bonus section,
and you'll see that when you get off the script,
off the page, your eyes,
and we'll talk about this in the performance technique,
instantly brings your audience in.
So we really wanna make sure
that writing it all out is just a tool for you.
From that tool you are going to discover
your thought bubbles.
Underline those phrases that are gonna help
trigger in your mind the concept
of any given section of your presentation.
Underneath that thought bubble
you're just gonna write some bullet point notes,
because what we do not want you to do
is get so hung up on the pretty way that you wrote it,
and then you're gonna try to start memorizing it.
Because here's what happens.
You're not an actress, or an actor,
and when you get up on stage,
if you forget some of those words, you are gonna blank.
And we wanna give you the flexibility
to be able to convey that same idea
with the flexibility to do it conversationally,
right in the moment, just like you do in regular life.
So use your long script if that's exciting for you.
Have your thought bubble, title.
Have the bullet points underneath
that describe what the thought bubble is about,
and then even have the transition sentence.
How are we gonna get from this idea to this idea,
one thought bubble to another.
All of that is in the worksheet.
I'm gonna include an additional copy
right as an extra to this lesson
so you can just print it out.
Map out your content, noodle around,
practice with a friend,
make sure you really have nailed just what you wanna say,
and then you can start practicing how you wanna say it,
and how you can build slides that support those key ideas.
Snap it out.
(gentle upbeat music)

--- Thoughts about PowerPoint Slides, Graphics and More ---

(relaxing music)
-: Oh, I hope you have done that work
of really mapping out your content,
I cannot stress this enough.
Do not make your slides until you have really noodled around
what you wanna say,
otherwise you are going to be going back and forth
and tweaking and tweaking and everything takes energy.
So really by following the steps and really making sure
that you have played around with your content,
that you have identified the super objective,
that you know your thought bubbles,
that you know the points that you wanna make,
only then can we turn to the deck.
Now, by deck, I mean the slide deck,
PowerPoint presentation, Keynote, Google Slides,
whatever you use, I wanna make sure that you understand
one key concept and that is less is more.
I'm gonna say that again because it's so important.
Less is more.
One of my biggest pet peeves
when I've seen people do presentations
is that they jam these slides
with all this data and all these pie charts
and graphs with lots of words and all kinds of different,
you know, data points and descriptions
and you're sitting there and as an audience member,
you're kind of sort of getting a gist
of what they're saying but the minute this complicated thing
this visual comes up,
instantly I am no longer listening at all
to what the person is saying because my attention has gone
from them to this thing that I need to figure out
and my brain can't be in two places at once.
So don't shoot yourself in the foot that way.
Do not hurt your presentation
by making anything visually confusing.
The minute it's confusing, we don't listen to you,
and we don't care and we can't even really get the data
and we won't remember it.
So if you need to show something that is data points
or graphics or analytics or anything like that,
make sure you're distilling it down
to the simplest form of information
and when you have it up on screen,
you are just referring to it.
You're telling the audience by turning your head,
this is what I want you to pay attention to now
and you highlight the key points.
So you can say, you see this bar in red
is highlighting the total population that was reached
and this line here in blue is the number of units
that we were able to penetrate into the audience
or the population, I'm totally making this up.
The point is you wanna be as clear as possible.
My second pet peeve is when people jam a lot of text
on a slide, so much text that they either feel compelled
to read it, boring.
Or they just throw it up there, they don't read it.
So now we're sort of split as an audience member
reading the text and kind of listening to the person,
which means we're doing neither
and then they don't give us adequate time to read it
if they want us to, and they just click through the slide.
What's the purpose of that slide then?
So for your slides, I'll tell you what I do.
I lean on imagery.
I make sure that if I'm going to use slides,
that I do it very thoughtfully,
with very compelling images that support
what I'm going to say.
So if I'm talking about fear,
maybe I will show a person who looks very fearful.
If I'm talking about light,
I will show somebody who's dancing in light.
Are they necessary?
Sometimes, some cases I don't use any graphics at all
because I just wanna take them on a story,
you know, a long story.
But in some cases I show videos at the end
and so to set up the idea of using visuals,
I intersperse a few imagery,
a little bit of imagery throughout my talk.
It just depends on the talk,
in the same way that it depends on your talk.
So here's where I want you to see some great examples.
Again, I'm gonna lean on TED.
TED is a phenomenal resource
because you're going to see the use of all different types
of topics and people are going to share their visuals
sparingly 'cause that's one of the guidelines
to deliver a TED talk.
But very thoughtfully and in some cases you'll see graphics,
in some cases you'll see imagery.
But I want you to do your own exploration,
just to see examples of how you use it.
Now technically there are some great tools in PowerPoint,
in Keynote, and in Google Slides.
Again, I will say less is more.
Your text does not need to shedder,
it does not need to swipe.
Just keep it simple.
Anything that's happening on the screen is taking away
attention from you and you should be the most dynamic,
compelling, and engaging thing on that stage.
So err on the side of simplicity as a rule
and make sure that your content and your stage performance
is by far the most important thing on the stage
for your audience to see.
Not your presentation deck, have at it.
(gentle music)

--- The Power of Practice: Out Loud and in Your Mind ---

(gentle music)
-: Now, remember when I told you earlier in the course
that you were going to enlist a friend?
Ask a friend to help you out?
Okay, now you are going
to actually use their services,
their kind and generous donation of their time.
Because when you practice,
you give yourself the ability to build your confidence.
You actually discover the areas
where you really haven't thought through the thought bubble,
the areas where maybe your story isn't vivid enough
or it's too long or it's too short.
You have to get up on your feet
with your presentation deck
up on your laptop or on a screen,
and you need to practice.
Now, I will talk at the end of this lesson
about visualization, but I don't wanna go there first
because I can't emphasize enough how important it is
that you actually get on stage.
Now, your stage in this case
can start off by just being your living room,
but it's very important that you try to mimic
as much as possible what it's going to be like
in the actual room.
And that's why in the beginning of the course,
I asked you details
about where are you going to be presenting.
Are you gonna be up on a stage?
Are you going to be behind a podium?
If you are a practice in mocking up
something that looks like a podium,
maybe a chair that you put a bunch of books on top of.
You wanna give yourself as much opportunity
to be practicing in the same
kind of situation that you will be on on stage.
Typically, when I'm preparing
for any speaking engagement,
yes, I have asked the organizer about all those details.
If I can even Google online
and see what the room looks like, I do it.
If I know that it's just going...
I was just doing a huge conference and speaking engagement
for IBM, and I knew the hotel
that they were going to be presenting in,
and I asked them it was gonna be in the ballroom.
I asked them if it was gonna be on stage.
People know the answers.
Just go find out.
And you know why?
Because it helped me prepare and practice.
I did decide to use limited slides.
So when I was practicing, I had my laptop up
and I pretended that it was going to be presented
up on a big wall, which it was.
But when I had to click through, I had my clicker
so I could practice clicking, clicking through my slides
so I could even time out when I wanted to click.
I also have this little super secret thing that I do,
which is we're gonna be talking about
in the next section about what you're gonna wear
and how to prepare yourself physically
and vocally and all that stuff,
but I always wear, and I always practice in
the shoes that I'm gonna be wearing the day of the event.
Because it's a very different feeling in your body,
especially for my women,
but it's a very different feeling in your body
if you're practicing in bare feet
or if you're wearing heels or boots or flats.
We all have a different energy.
When I'm wearing boots, I feel really strong.
When I'm wearing high-heeled shoes,
I feel strong but it's a different energy.
I like to be more grounded.
I tend to wear boots
and I don't tend to wear, interestingly enough, flats.
It doesn't make me feel powerful enough.
Now, that's me.
That's how I like to have my energy.
And in the next section, we're gonna be talking
about how your clothes help your confidence, as well.
It's not just a sort of artificial thing.
It actually helps with your confidence.
So when we talk about practicing,
really practice in the shoes
that you're going to be presenting in.
If you wanna buy new shoes, this is a tricky thing.
If your new shoes are gonna kind of cramp your feet
and make you feel a little not comfortable
walking and standing in, don't do it.
If you're going to be, if there's no podium
and you're gonna walk back and forth across the stage,
you wanna practice that in your living room, in your office.
If you can practice in a bigger space,
let's say your office has
a conference room or something that just gives you
the feeling of spaciousness, that's good.
You wanna give yourself that feedback.
Now, here's a note.
We're gonna be talking later on
about connecting with the audience, but this is important.
When you are practicing, you must intentionally
either visualize or literally be talking to,
pretending that there is an audience in front of you.
Because the specificity, remember,
we're really concentrating
on how we wanna make the audience feel.
You need to see them.
So when you're working with your friend,
of course you're gonna be looking at them,
but maybe practice looking at spots on the wall
beyond the person that you're talking to,
just to get into the habit of looking around the room.
Because we'll talk about this later.
When I'm doing a presentation,
I'm making sure to connect with the front row,
but I'm also making a point to connect with the back row
and the people over there
and maybe the ones over on the side.
That way, everyone feels included.
When you feel included, you wanna pay attention.
So make sure to practice with as many details as possible
both for your content and for your delivery,
but make sure you practice with a friend,
real life and out loud.
Only then can then you in those other moments,
in your car, in the shower, before you go to bed
visualize yourself totally rocking it on stage.
Visualization's a powerful tool.
Athletes do it.
You can do it, too,
but only after you've practiced out loud.
(gentle music)

--- Your Clothes:  How to Dress the Part ---

(ambient music)
Instructor: Now, we are gonna talk
about your body, your voice.
These are important things to consider
especially as you're presenting yourself on stage.
So in this video we're gonna talk
about your dress and your appearance.
And there's a few different highlights
that I wanna point out.
One, is remember we talked about who your audience is?
Well, you wanna dress appropriately for them.
The other week I gave a presentation for an all girls school
one that's specifically focused on movement and athletics.
Now, did I go there wearing a blazer?
No, I did not, I was wearing something
it wasn't exactly sweatpants, but it was comfortable.
It was casual.
Now, a few weeks ago, when I was speaking in front
of the 500 women of IBM, I looked very professional
and I sort of had a different take.
All of these are sort of flavors of Alexa,
but you wanna modify what you're wearing
so that it's just appropriate
for the situation that you're in.
So think about your audience.
Also, I want you to think
about clothes that you feel great in.
Sometimes a new outfit or even an old outfit
that's really freshly cleaned
and pressed makes you feel great.
It makes you look professional.
And in the same way that we prepared what we wanted to say
and we mapped out all the steps,
I want you to pay careful attention
to making sure your clothes are ready.
There is nothing like the day of the event,
reaching in your closet to a shirt
that you assumed was clean only to find a giant stain on it.
So if you have a great outfit that you like, wonderful,
just make sure it's clean and pressed and ready to go.
When I flew across the country to speak at IBM,
I actually literally from the time I landed
to the time I was on stage, was probably about 80 minutes.
Not long, especially 'cause it was a half an hour
from drive from the airport.
So I had carefully packed some things,
but I had called the hotel in advance
to make sure that there was an ironing board in my hotel.
These are things that I'm used to checking on
that I'm used to thinking about.
So I did a quick press before I actually went down
to the convention center to give my talk.
It was super helpful.
So think about these in advance.
Your shoes, your outfit and how does it make you feel?
What clothes, what colors do you look good in?
I tend to wear green, it highlights my eyes.
I tend to not wear a lot of busy patterns on stage.
I find it distracting
and I want people to mostly focus on my face.
That's also gonna help make the audience
feel really connected.
So just clothes that you feel great in,
that are nice and clean and that are appropriate
for your audience.
And also giving careful attention to your footwear.
Again, I talked about this earlier,
but clothes and footwear that you feel confident in
that you can walk comfortably in but that is appropriate.
Next, I wanna talk about your hair.
My pet peeve with hair
is that sometimes people have hair hairdos
where their hair just gets really
kind of in front of their face.
So the minute we have something that where you have bands,
or something that's in front of your face,
it really cuts you off from your audience.
And it would be super annoying
if I was doing this presentation with my hair in my eyes,
or if it sort of fell in my eyes and I was constantly going
like this to get it out of my face.
That would also be annoying.
So make sure that when you are thinking about your hair
that it is away from your face.
This is the most important thing
to connect with your audience.
So we really wanna make sure that it's clean
and that it's out of the way.
Same for men, especially men with long hair.
Just make sure that it's out of your face.
Little hairspray, little combining should do the job.
Now, next I want you to think about your makeup.
For women, your makeup if when you're on stage,
if you feel like wearing makeup.
My rule of thumb,
is I barely wear makeup in out in real life.
But when I am on stage where I'm on camera,
I just bump it up a little bit
because it's very easy when you're on camera
for whatever reason, it minimizes makeup.
So even if you put a little bit on for daytime
when you're on camera, it looks like you have nothing on,
same for the stage.
So my rule of thumb is if you're going to wear makeup
that feels like a right choice for you,
go ahead and put on a little bit more
as if you're going to an evening event.
Little heavier makeup just to pop, especially your eyes.
For my gentleman and for women,
if you know that you're someone who sweats a lot
when you get nervous and to a certain degree of nerves
on stage is normal, powder can be your best friend.
This idea of never let them see you sweat
is simply to just say when you powder your face
even just a little bit you keep that sort of shine
from coming out and you just look calmer.
When we see sweat in somebody else,
we instantly think they're nervous.
So just eliminate that by just getting rid of the shine.
Now, gentlemen
if you've never purchased powder before, no big deal.
You can get pressed translucent powder at any drug store.
Usually comes with a little pad and you just tap it on
and you tap it over the areas that typically get shiny
which is right here and right here and right here.
Just tap it along, don't use too much
'cause it will look like you're actually wearing makeup.
But translucent powder, meaning clear powder
will just simply eliminate that shine
and it'll help make you feel and look more confident.
Trust me.
So little, little things that we do
more importantly, give us the feeling of confidence
and being prepared.
So think about that as you pull together
what I call your game day outfit.
(upbeat music)

--- Common Vocal Pitfalls and How to Avoid Them ---

(bright music)
-: So let's talk about your voice.
Now, I have a few different ways to talk about this.
One is, I would like you to bring your awareness
to how you are as a speaker.
Are you someone that uses a lot of vocal habits,
like um, ah, ya know?
Things that I call vocal fillers.
Be aware of them.
If you're aware of them, and the more that you practice
and you know what you wanna say,
the less you will habitually use those fillers.
If you're someone who notices that you use fillers
then you can also start practicing eliminating them
right now simply by slowing yourself down
and where you have the impulse to go, um, just be silent.
Think about what you want to say and then move on.
Fillers are actually the noise that distracts our audience
from really paying attention to us.
Another vocal habit that I want you
to bring your awareness to
is whether or not you do rising intonations at the end.
We do this naturally when we ask a question.
So when we ask a question, how are you?
Ah.
Do you know where the bathroom is?
It indicates to our listener that we don't know something.
However, when we use rising intonations
and it's not actually a question,
it conveys that we also don't know what we're talking about.
The population here, as you can see, it grew.
And we had to increase our supply chain.
This rising intonation, again, we wanna be aware of it
and then we wanna consciously shift it.
It does take a little bit of effort
to be aware of it and shift it.
So if you're not sure whether or not
you have any sort of vocal habits
that might be getting in the way,
go ahead and record yourself
in a situation where you feel comfortable,
where you can just take your phone,
hit that internal memo recording
and just record a conversation.
Let the person know you're recording or not.
Record an innocent conversation, just so that you
can become aware of whatever your habits are.
Chances are you're doing them on stage.
One of the things that I used to say
when I saw President Barack Obama speak,
is that when he talked he always ended on a down note.
He always liked to talk and make a point.
Always wanted to go down.
Ironically, it's not vocally very inspiring.
You wanna inspire by saying, do you know what I mean?
Now, that's different than the rising intonation.
It's subtle, but it's aspirational.
There's a difference.
So this is not a course about becoming a wonderful orator
and changing your vocal patterns.
I actually have other courses
that address specifically that,
but I want you to bring your awareness to it.
Some people they are aware that they're really fast talkers
and they get really, really excited,
so they talk really, really fast
and it's amazing, I've got this great story
and I can't wait to...
We can't understand what you're saying.
Sometimes people are very slow, monotonous speakers
and it's very heavy handed.
Also not terribly engaging.
So see while you're practicing,
ask your friend to give you feedback about your voice.
How can you slow down?
How can you breathe deeper and make it more resonant?
Are there any fillers?
I'll give you a checklist of things to look out for.
When you're aware of them,
just bring that to your awareness as you practice.
It's as simple as that.
Now, the other thing about your voice
is because you've done your work to figure out
are you going to be at a microphone?
Are you at a podium?
Are you going to have a body mic?
That's called a lavalier,
where you wear a transmitter on the back of your clothing
and they will click a microphone right here.
Typically, when you get to a venue,
if you want to wear a lavalier,
what it does it frees up your hands.
I'm a hand talker, so if you're gonna have a clicker
or if you're going to...
I like to use my arms when I speak,
especially if I'm in a big room.
and we'll talk about that in the next video.
But you wanna be aware, in advance,
of what you're gonna use, so you can get used to it.
Now, if you're gonna hold a microphone,
that's a different choice too
but it's gonna require you holding it.
So you're gonna have a clicker and a microphone.
If you know you're gonna use a microphone
then you wanna practice holding something,
like a hairbrush, when you practice.
Interestingly enough, when I was at IBM
doing my speaking engagement last week,
I always prefer a lavalier.
And so what happened was there was another two women
who were speaking before me,
they all, as professional speakers,
also preferred a lavalier.
However, even though we met with the sound technician,
we put on our lavaliers, we made sure they were turned on.
He said he tested them in advance.
The minute that one of those women got on stage
and we were in a really noisy room,
it wasn't powerful enough.
It was literally not a strong enough microphone.
So her partner, they co-presented,
they actually, because they're professionals,
they turned it off, they grabbed the handheld mic
and it was a stronger microphone.
Instantly in that moment,
I knew I'm gonna use the handheld mic too.
Why?
Because most important thing
is that I connect with my audience,
not that I stick to my plan 'cause that's how I practiced.
So you wanna be flexible.
If you can, when you have a speaking engagement,
do what's called a sound check in advance,
so you know what equipment is going to be,
you know how it works
and you don't have to do that awkward thing in the beginning
of, can everybody hear me?
Can you, can you hear me?
Nah, do that work in advance.
When you come on stage you wanna make that connection
free of any of those dirty disclaimers,
which we'll talk about later.
So your voice is your instrument
to connect to your audience,
so learn how to play it beautifully.
(bright music)

--- Body Language Basics: Learn to Command the Stage ---

(relaxing music)
Speaker: Now it's time to talk about your body language.
This magnificent vessel that you have to communicate
who you are and your ideas
and also really convey confidence.
That's what body language does.
So just as a quick snapshot to give you an idea
of what I'm talking about,
let's think about this posture.
So this posture, when we kind of have our arms crossed,
we cut ourselves off, and I'm exaggerating, of course.
But if you cut yourself off,
and you kind of slump your shoulders down,
you're not really, in what I would call, your power posture.
In a way, you're kind of projecting insecurity.
So instead, I want you to think about your stance
and the power posture as one with your shoulders down,
your spine elongated, expanding up,
and you're just open and free.
Now, this is something that you can actively practice
when you're up on your feet
doing your presentation to your friend.
This idea of really being extended, elongated and relaxed.
Now, Amy Cuddy does an awesome TED talk
about your power posture.
And it's really as simple as this.
You can Google and I'll give you a link
to check out the example that I'm talking
about her, her talk.
But just put your hands on your hips.
And I want you to have your feet hip distance apart.
Now, this actually changes the chemistry in your body.
So you are physically getting this jolt,
endorphins to make you feel better.
But it also projects confidence.
Now, wait a minute.
I am not telling you to deliver your speech like this.
No, I'm not.
I'm telling you to practice in private spaces
what it feels like to do this
before you give your presentation,
before you have an important conversation,
before you practice your presentation.
Get your body's chemistry going
so that you physically feel more confident.
Now, when you take the stage, again,
don't be afraid to take the stage.
Meaning allow yourself to really fill out the area
on that stage with your energy and your presence.
One time I, many, many, many, many, many years ago,
I was taking a Shakespeare class.
Actually think it was a workshop.
And the gentleman that I was studying from,
I was doing a Shakespearean speech,
and he noticed that when I was talking, I was doing this.
My elbows were kind of tucked into my sides
and I was talking.
And he's quickly critiqued me afterward.
He said, "The first thing I'm going to tell you
is that nothing like this is in Shakespeare.
Shakespeare is about the world."
And he said, "And I want you to free your arms.
I want you to understand that you can take the space.
So if you're talking about love and death and drama,
the sky, your love, you can be big."
Now, again, I just want you to play around with this.
If this is not how you speak normally, then don't.
You don't have to use that,
but know that this is an option.
Again, if your habitual way that you talk
is with your arms crossed or with yourself really guarded,
that's not going to help connect with your audience.
So just play around with your own way of elongating.
And if you're on a podium,
maybe it's just holding the outside of the podium.
If you're going to be gesturing to your slides
instead of gesturing like this,
just practice gesturing like this in extension.
It makes a big, big difference.
So be aware of the habitual way that you move.
And then be aware, as you practice,
how you can be just a little bit more relaxed,
a little bit more open, a little bit more elongated.
Because when you do, it instantly conveys your confidence,
your ease as a speaker.
And as a side benefit,
it just makes you feel better.
It actually does.
So really bring your awareness to that
from the minute you get on stage
throughout your entire delivery,
to you actually taking a little nod as you bow.
(upbeat music)

--- Your Checklist for Success on the Day of Your Presentation ---

(bright music)
Instructor: I am so excited for you.
Why?
Because your presentation is either today,
or it's coming up very, very soon!
And I know you're going to be amazing.
You've done the work.
You've put in the hours.
You've practiced with a friend.
You've rehearsed on your feet.
You've planned your outfit.
But I wanna give you a little checklist
to make sure you are super, super duper prepared.
Why?
Because when you are so prepared,
you can totally have so much fun.
So included in this particular lecture,
you're going to get this quick checklist.
And I'm gonna talk about first some practical things,
like do you have your slide deck?
Do you have it, maybe, either on a thumb drive
or have you emailed it,
or all the different ways that you can make sure
that you can get your physical presentation
to whatever audio, visual person needs it.
You do not wanna be thwarted at the last minute
from some tech flaw.
So make sure that you have access
to your actual presentation.
Do you have a clean, pressed outfit?
Are you all ready to go?
Do you have some extra water with you?
Just in case there's no water around,
you wanna have your own water.
Now, these are some of these little particular things
that there's any names of, any contact information
that you need to be in touch with.
Do you have the directions
to where you're going and the room number?
Are there any people that you need to
maybe you need to check in with
before you get there?
All of these little details,
I'm gonna give you some prompts,
but then you can add a few of your own.
Things that you wanna make sure that you're cool with
before you go, so that nothing can stress you out.
No unexpected curve balls.
Okay, now let's talk about your checklist
for your emotional and your physical preparation.
Now, I told you earlier that one of the best things
that I like to do is to listen to great music.
So on the day of your presentation,
you wanna get in your game day mood
by having an awesome playlist of songs
that are just gonna put you in a fabulous mood.
You can think about them in the morning,
you can listen to them in the car,
you can have them playing as you're getting ready.
But this is a way
for you to just really tap into your confidence.
You wanna make sure
that you're looking at your positive affirmation.
You're gonna wanna make sure
that you do your power stance,
your Amy Cuddy power stance,
so you really energize yourself.
On a practical note, you also wanna make sure
that you got a good night's rest
and that you avoided any,
I mean, if you need a little coffee, that's fine
but not too much caffeine,
because it's going to dehydrate you.
And it's going to increase your stress level.
It's actually gonna make your heart rate faster.
So you wanna make sure to stay really hydrated.
That's a lot of water basically.
And you want to eat well
and you wanna get a good night's rest.
That's just on a practical level.
So by taking care of your body,
you are setting yourself up for success
by making sure that you have all the practical things
worked out in advance that's also super successful.
And then the biggest thing is you really wanna trust
that you've got your talk down.
Now, for some people that may mean
wanting to make sure that they have some note cards
with their thought bubbles.
Again, I'm gonna caution you,
do not script it out.
Do not sit there with that paper in your hand
because you were gonna wanna be reading it,
and that is super boring.
Instead, if you feel that you need
to have little prompts,
make sure you have note cards.
They're just those key phrases in your thought bubbles.
And those thought bubbles are connected to your slides.
You can have those with you as well.
So make sure you have all your goodies
that you need with you.
Use your checklist.
Add a few items of your own,
so that when you leave your home,
the beginning of the day,
you know that you have done your best to prepare.
Because my friend, you are ready to rock this.
You got that?
You totally are going to rock this.
Be in service to your audience.
Think about them.
Really connect with them.
Your message is your light.
So let it shine brightly for them.
And by doing so, you will help them
ignite their light as well.
(bright music)

--- Techniques to Calm Your Nerves ---

(gentle music)
Speaker: Now, let me give you a few great tools
for you to calm your nerves.
Because again, having some excess energy
is totally normal when you know you're going to be on stage.
It is not normal to be standing
in front of a room full of people
with all eyes on you.
And in fact, I will tell you on my wedding day,
even though I was used to big stages
and playing characters, and speaking in front of people,
my wedding day felt really overwhelming
to be the center of attention.
It was very strange.
But remember your nerves.
It's just energy.
So when we were guarded as something
that's so negative, we need to fight it.
Don't worry about it.
Energy is a beautiful thing.
It's what makes you alive.
But there are some tools that I can give you
to help you calm down
and not let that energy get the best of you.
Now, if you're someone that knows that you,
you're just really jacked up for the event
and maybe you have too much energy.
Don't be afraid to do a little exercise in the morning.
Whether it's go for a brisk walk or a swim
or do whatever kind of sport
or exercise that you need to do.
But you can burn off excess energy
very simply with some exercise.
It also helps clear the mind.
The second thing that I want to remind you is,
is that instantly you can calm down by belly breathing.
So just do this with me now.
Take a deep breath in through your nose
and let it out.
Pause and do it again.
Take a deep breath in,
letting that air go right to the belly,
not just to your chest, but to your belly.
And let it out.
Slowly.
This simple tool of breathing
is literally at your disposal whenever you want
and it's there for you to help you get grounded.
To help you just get connected to your body.
And that's why I love those deep belly breaths.
So do that at any point when you're feeling anxious,
but in particular, while you're waiting,
before you go on stage.
Just give yourself that moment
to check in with your breath.
Now, before you go on stage,
let's say in the morning of,
I want you to do two energy techniques
that are pretty cool.
One is about connecting the two hemispheres of the brain.
These two hemispheres have very different functions,
but when we're in our optimal state of mind,
they're actually connected.
So we're going to show you
something called the Modified Wayne Cook exercise.
It's a technique that I learned
from the work of Donna Eden.
And I can provide some links in the supporting materials.
But essentially it goes like this.
Take your hands and put them in front of you,
and you're gonna cr...
With your palms facing inward,
you're going to cross your palms in front of you
and connect your fingers just like this.
And then you're going to bring that
right to the center of your chest.
And what this does
is that it literally connects
the two hemispheres of your brain.
And so you're not just going to be right dominant
or left dominant, you're going to be together.
In fact, I think I just read an article about this
that that's why they called,
they thought that Einstein had a super brain
is because there was so much connective tissue between,
there was so much connection happening
between the right and the left hemispheres.
And apparently we are usually more dominant
than in one or the other.
So I do this every day
to connect the hemisphere of the brain.
I even have my kids do it.
So just connect your brain.
That way you are thinking clearly.
You are firing off on each integrated direction.
The other energy practice
that I would love to introduce you to
is something called Holding the Neuro.
So this is this area
in the frontal cortex of our brain
that actually when we panic,
we restrict blood flow to this part of our brain.
And what we want to do
is we want to encourage blood flow
through the part of our brain right here
so that we can think clearly.
So if we're in a charitable situation
and all of a sudden we're standing in front of an lion
and we go, "Ahh!".
All the blood flows out.
And we can no longer think clearly. We panic.
So what we want to do is calm down.
Here's how we do it.
We can either hold these little bumpy points
above our brow right here
or we can hold our entire forehead
while we place our other hand
on the back of our head, right like this.
Now, when you're holding this position
I want you to breathe in.
(person inhaling)
(person exhaling)
Now remember, back in the beginning of this course,
you wrote down all your negative thoughts.
One way to eliminate those negative thoughts
is to go ahead, look back at the list.
And as you read that
I want you to just hold your brain right like this.
Read your negative thought.
I am afraid of being embarrassed.
(person inhales)
And breathe and let it go.
Being embarrassed.
(person inhales)
And let it go.
(person exhales)
In a way, we're deprogramming.
We're taking the scary power
that that thought had on us.
And we're releasing it if you believe me or not,
all I want you to do is try it.
When you're in a moment of panic
and your energy is like this and you can't think clearly,
this will help you think clearly.
It's called Holding the Neuro.
So use these techniques both when you practice,
but most certainly on the day of the event.
Now, I don't recommend you doing them
while you are at the event.
This is really work that's going to be done at home
while you are getting ready.
And it will make you feel calm and collected,
and connected to your light.
(bright music)

--- Connecting with the Audience ---

(soft music)
-: One thing that I would love to emphasize the importance of
is your ability to connect to the audience.
This whole course has been about
working on your presentation skills
but I can't underestimate that this connection
is what's going to bring your audience
right into the palm of your hand
and you can actually connect with them
from the moment you walk into the building.
Let me explain.
You are making a first impression
from the moment that someone lays eyes on you
and they typically do this in the split of a second.
So, when you've done your preparation
and you've prepared yourself energetically and physically,
and you know your material,
and you've brought all of your supplies,
and you've done everything,
from the second you walk into that venue,
your presentation begins.
And here's why.
We are greeting the people
that are working behind the scenes in audio/visual.
Likely you're greeting the person that hired you
or that invited you to be a speaker,
and you're showing them with your warmth and energy,
your positive smile, that you're ready to go.
That "Don't worry, I've got this.
"I'm totally happy to rock it on stage."
The other thing is, you have an opportunity
to literally connect with your audience.
So again, I'll share with you,
when I was about to speak in front of 500 women,
I knew that I was the second speaker
and there was about 45 minutes
before I actually was going to take the stage.
And as those women were pouring in
and there was so much hoopla,
I went and got myself a glass of water.
And then I started walking around the crowd
and I was introducing myself.
I was saying, "Hello, where are you from?"
I said, "What a great venue!"
And I ended up connecting with a woman
who we just caught each other's eye
and we started speaking with.
What I didn't know
was that she was actually one of the executives at IBM
and one of the women who I had the pleasure
of hearing her speak at the panel at the end
but we made a genuine connection right from the start.
I also had an opportunity to mingle with a group of women
because, and let me preface this,
I had already done the preparation
to know where my microphone was,
to know that my presentation was cued up
and it had been tested 'cause I had been flying in,
really only a handful of minutes earlier.
So, they had tested it and so I knew I was set.
I had my water set.
I did all my preparation work,
so I could connect and I could connect.
Now here's why this is so great.
Guess what?
When you step up on stage,
you're gonna look for that friendly face.
And if you've met people in advance,
what friendly faces you can go find them right away.
They're out there. They're looking at you to be like,
"Oh those people also didn't know that I was a speaker.
"They thought I was just somebody else at IBM."
I didn't necessarily--
maybe in some cases I said,
"Oh, I'm here and I'll be a speaker" but not with everybody.
So, there was sort of that wow moment.
"Oh, how cool?!"
I met that woman.
So, there was this friendly face interaction.
Now finding a friendly face
doesn't always have to to be with people
that you have had the opportunity to meet.
It can be with people that genuinely look engaged.
They could be engaged
'cause they're just great audience members
or they could just be jiving with your energy
and they could be just genuinely curious
what you have to say.
But as you look out, chances are,
unless you're on a stage where there's such bright lights
that literally you can't see the audience,
you can see their faces.
So, make a point to find the faces that are friendly
in the front row, in the middle of the row,
and even in the back row.
Because here's another little secret.
When you look at the back row,
you include everybody ahead of them.
But if you look just at the front row,
you exclude everyone behind them.
It's the same way at a dinner party
Isn't it super creepy if you're at a dinner party
with like eight people and someone's telling a story
but they only look at one person while they're telling it?
Suddenly everybody else at the table feels super awkward
because it's like, "Why aren't they including me?"
Your speak engagement is the same way.
If you're speaking and you're only looking at one section,
everybody over here feels ignored.
So, practice.
Again, when you're practicing, look around.
Make sure to include the front, the side, the back row.
Include them.
Now, chances are,
you are also gonna come across those unfriendly faces.
Those are the ones of the people
that are looking on their phone.
They're just doing their own thing.
They are gonna be people that are just like
(soft whispering)
talking to somebody else.
Human being behavior, people.
So what I want you to do is not focus on them.
Find the friendly faces and ignore the rest.
Don't call them out.
Don't get flustered by it.
I literally years ago was doing a workshop.
Beginning of the workshop,
there was a woman there who was like this.
And about an hour later I go and find her.
I mean, I'm just scanning, I'm talking, I'm doing my thing.
And I look over and she's like this,
like literally had fallen asleep.
So, did that throw me off
and I go "Oh no, I'm a terrible speaker.
"I just put this woman to sleep."
No, look, she had maybe a late night, I don't know.
But you can't let yourself be taken out
by the people that are not as engaged as you'd like them.
You just have to move on.
Find the friendly face.
So, don't be afraid to connect with your audience,
so much so that even as you're moving through
your thought bubbles and you're sharing your stories,
allow yourself the pleasure of taking them in.
In a weird way, it's a one-sided conversation
but it is a conversation.
And your audience is that silent,
they're receiving your information
but they're also giving you energy.
You can watch comics do this.
Watch any comedy special.
Yes, they're presenting on stage
but there's also this moment where they're like, you know,
asking sort of a response from the audience.
For me, I like to engage my audiences
but here's how I do it.
In some cases,
I have an exercise where I have them close their eyes
and I lead them through a visualization.
In some cases, I have them--
I'll call out a question and say
"Has anybody heard of ____ by a show of hands?"
And I actually physically ask them to do something.
This also engages them.
One thing I shy away from
is having them break away from the conversation
and talk amongst themselves.
Because I'll tell you,
even though it's a great way to connect with your audience,
have your audience connect with each other,
it is a challenge getting their attention back.
And you end up having to do all this work.
Like, "Okay, okay, let's wrap that up.
"Okay, let's focus in."
And you don't want to be that teacher that's like,
"Everybody be quiet!"
That's tough.
So, keep your audience engaged, both by looking at them,
by engaging them with maybe physical gestures.
And I caution you to invite them to talk amongst themselves
because I'll tell you it's much harder
to get their attention back.
So instead, really invite that connection
as a way of listening for you,
as a way of allowing yourself to share the content
and then just sort of allowing the space
to get that response,
that non-verbal response back from them.
You'll feel it.
Watch comedians, they do it brilliantly.
So, your audience is your friend.
It is the group that you are bestowing this little present
that you're giving them: your presentation.
So, enjoy it.
Don't be afraid of it.
Enjoy it.
The more you engage with them,
the more love that they're gonna give right back to you.
(soft music)

--- Give Yourself Some Kudos: Celebrating Your Achievement ---

(tranquil music)
(Announcer clapping)
Announcer: Oh my goodness!
You did it.
This is the video that I want you to watch
maybe again after your presentation is over.
Because I for one am so proud of you.
My heart is gonna burst.
It is not easy to do the work,
because it requires that persistence
and that positive energy, the commitment to change,
the hammering out your material, to enlisting a friend.
But you totally, totally did it.
So here is what I implore you to do.
Give yourself the credit you deserve.
I really mean this.
So often we walk off that stage
and we instantly go to what we could have done better.
Did that go well?
Or I wonder if that, and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
and all these things.
To worry and worry and worry, and you don't even give
yourself the space to say, Wow, look what I did!
I did this better and then this better.
And then that happened.
And then this person approached me afterward,
and I felt this way, and it wasn't as scary as I thought.
And actually at one moment I was having a good time.
And then even when my video didn't work, it was okay,
cause I made a joke and people totally laughed.
Give yourself the credit you deserve.
Honor and notice the great things that you accomplished.
Because only by doing that are you going
to find the inspiration and the courage
and the commitment to do it again.
And a little bit better, and a little bit better,
and a little bit better, and a little bit better.
Because that's actually what it takes
to become amazing on stage.
Yes, I guarantee that you did a better job
than you did before because of your work on this course.
No doubt.
But then you can use the same techniques and do it again.
Learn something, discover something.
How can you do it a little bit better?
But it takes time.
So do not go down that rabbit hole of negative thoughts.
That little inner critic that's trying to tear you down.
Nope, don't do it!
Really celebrate the work that you did.
I really mean that.
There's a little thing that I learned called
toothbrush love, which was while you're brushing your teeth
you're giving yourself a little compliment,
cause you deserve it.
We don't get the credit that we crave all the time.
So give it to yourself.
You can, even when no one's watching.
Give yourself the credit you deserve, cause you deserve it.
And, if you write me a note,
I'm gonna give you some kudos directly.
Just send me a message, cause I mean it.
I am proud of you.
You do the work, you get the results,
and you rinse and repeat.
So bravo.
(Announcer clapping)
I applaud you.
Now applaud yourself.
(tranquil music)

--- Get Visible: Planning Your Next Opportunity ---

(gentle music)
-: Now, I would be remiss if I didn't tell you
one of the perks of being a great presenter.
You see, when you stand up on stage, you are yourself.
Not your job title, not your company, you are your brand.
Which means that these thoughts and ideas,
this thousand watt light that's inside of you
goes wherever you go.
Which means that being on stage is a huge opportunity
for visibility.
I have trained so many people that said
I never saw myself on stage before.
And once they did it and they did it well,
oh boy did they wanna do it again?
And they started to look for other opportunities
to grow that visibility.
So now that you've done your presentation,
I want you to really get a little curious
about what other opportunities could present themselves.
Sure, maybe you wanna do a TED Talk, that would be awesome.
I do too.
But maybe there are opportunities within the organization
to present an idea at a company meeting.
Maybe that there is an all company retreat
where they're looking for speakers.
Maybe there are conferences
that your company has attended in the past
and they're looking for speakers
or maybe you wanna present on the idea
that you just presented.
I mean, you have a presentation that you just did.
Maybe there are other opportunities to do it elsewhere.
Get curious and proactive
about where else can you be visible.
Now I have taught courses
about how to be confident on camera.
All of the same techniques that I'm teaching you
just with a few little shifts about being on camera.
But the core idea ideas here
can be used when you're speaking in front of the lens.
So maybe you wanna start thinking
about how you can be more visible on camera as well.
The point is, there is no end to what is possible
but it's up to you to start visualizing it.
Seeing where you can share your ideas and your light.
That's my invitation to you right now.
The better you become at it the less resistance you have
internally, emotionally and physically to actually doing it.
Suddenly you have all of this opportunity
that's available to you.
And with that comes all kinds of great new things.
New connections, new contacts
in some cases, new business opportunities.
Bigger jobs, more friendships,
allies people that you are meant to connect with.
So start dreaming.
Keep a list, get curious.
Do the research.
Where do you want to be?
Ask your friend who's helped you.
Ask your coworker, ask your boss.
Get curious.
You don't wanna come off as this braggadocious
like since I just rocked it on stage,
where else can you book me?
Be humble, but do the work.
Look for the opportunities.
Opportunities don't necessarily come looking for you
so create the life that you imagine.
Do it now.
(gentle music)

--- Send me your questions! ---

(upbeat music)
-: Okay, I have covered all kinds of topics here,
but I bet you have some questions.
So this video is simply my invitation to you
to send me your questions.
And there's a few different ways that you can get the most
out of this course and have your questions answered.
One: You can post a question inside this course,
and by doing so, other students can see it.
If you're feeling a little more shy,
private message me inside the course,
inside of the message tab, inside of Udemy,
and I will also get that message.
But I am also interested in doing some live Facebook videos
on Facebook Live where I'm gonna be taking
my Udemy students' questions and being able to address them.
At some point, I'm even thinking of trying to integrate
Skype and to be able to do some Q&amp;A sessions
where we can record them
and also add them as additional content.
Why?
Because I honestly feel like there are so many nuances
that are your nuances, your questions,
and I truthfully wanna be in service to your needs.
So if you have something specific,
by all means send it my way
and we will learn from one another.
We rise together, my friends.
So if you have great examples of TED Talks that you've seen,
even things that you just wanna share with everybody,
post it and I will promise to do the same.
So check out here for all the opportunities,
either where I'm going to appear
on Facebook Live and that you can sign up for that,
or you can send me those messages.
But let's stay connected,
because truthfully, I wanna answer your questions,
but you gotta send them my way.
(upbeat music)

--- A Message for You During Uncertain Times ---

-: Hi, it's Alexa,
and I wanted to give you a special bonus message.
First of all, I hope this message finds you well.
I truly, truly do.
And in these times,
I thought I could provide an additional resource for you.
So, you will see in the bonus area
of your course, a new guided visualization for wellbeing.
This is an audio recording that you can listen to anytime,
and it's truthfully meant
for you to just have a way to get calm and grounded,
especially when things are a little intense, right?
So in this guided visualization, it's an opportunity
for you to not only quiet your mind,
but really activate your immune system,
really imagining this light systematically
moving through your body,
and giving you calm, clarity, and wellbeing.
So I hope you'll take advantage of it.
You know, I am so honored to share this virtual space
with you to help you overcome whatever fear,
hesitation you have towards
that message that only you can give to the world.
And now, more than ever, our world needs your message,
it needs your light.
So I invite you to just give the guided visualization a try.
See how it makes you feel.
See if it makes you feel more grounded, more calm,
and hopefully in that, it will help you reemerge
into your day with more strength, more clarity,
and more conviction to move forward with grace and ease.
In all of my courses, it's underlying,
there's an underlying message that you can do
whatever you set your mind to.
And in this time where many
of us are really hunkering down in our homes
and in front of our screens, this is your time to learn.
This is your time to wish
and imagine life beyond this current situation.
So make the time.
Make the time for yourself to visualize.
Make the time for yourself to learn.
Make this time as a special time for you to connect both
with yourself and the ones that you love.
I'm wishing you all the best here in California,
and I'm honored to share this community with you.
Take care.
(inspiring music)

--- A Guided Visualization for Wellbeing ---

(soothing instrumental music)
-: Hello.
Let's take this time to close our eyes,
sit very comfortably,
and connect to the deepest part of our being.
The quiet place that's inside of us
where we know deep down that all is well.
So as we begin, just take a minute to close your eyes.
Quiet the thoughts that are in your head.
Bring your attention very gently inward.
Allow yourself just a handful
of minutes to bring yourself back, back to your home.
which is your body and your mind.
We're gonna begin by doing a very easy breathing exercise.
The way that it works
is we're going to inhale for a count of four,
taking the breath into the bottom of our belly,
soft, deep belly, holding our breath
and as we hold our breath for a count of seven,
we're imagining that air moving
in a circular, counterclockwise direction
and then slowly exhaling that air on a count of eight.
I'll be talking you through this,
but it's an inhale for a count of four,
gently holding your air,
imagining it moving in a counterclockwise direction
for a count of seven, exhaling on the count of eight.
Let's do that together
and then we'll move right into a guided visualization.
Here we go.
Breathing in softly for a count of four.
Holding that air for a count of seven,
visualizing counterclockwise, circular direction.
Exhaling on the count of eight.
Again, breathing in on a count of four,
gently holding,
imagining that air circulating counterclockwise
for a count of seven.
Exhaling on a count of eight.
One more time.
Inhaling on the count of four,
holding your breath,
imagining the air circulating
in a counterclockwise direction for a count of seven,
exhaling on the count of eight.
Keeping your eyes closed.
Bring your awareness to your body, scanning in your mind
any areas that feel clenched, tense, blocked.
Gently, gently send a message to let it go.
Soften, beginning with the bottom of your feet.
Gently release your toes, your ankles,
dropping your heels into the ground.
Softening your calves, your knees,
bringing your awareness up to your hips,
allowing your hips to drop and soften.
Feeling your energy go up through your spine
allowing your spine to softly lengthen.
As you reach your shoulders,
allowing your shoulders to expand, release, drop.
Feeling that energy move through your arms
all the way passed your elbows, releasing your wrists
and allowing that energy to move through your fingertips.
Bring your awareness back to your spine
moving up through your head, softening your ears,
your eyes, your eyebrows, your forehead.
Allowing this softening, relaxing, releasing to happen.
This is your body and it is full of energy.
Billions of things happening to keep you healthy, grounded
calm, and filled with a sense of wellbeing.
Allowing yourself a big, deep breath in
and exhale feeling the energy of your body,
allowing the release to go just a little bit deeper.
Now, in your mind's eye,
I invite you to imagine a beautiful ball of light.
Your light in the center of your chest.
Picture your light right now.
This beautiful light is crystal clear filled with energy.
Imagine that light expanding with each deep breath in
gently filling all of the areas of your body.
As you breathe in, imagine that light going down.
Down your spine, down through your legs and your feet.
As this energy finds its way to your feet,
imagine it coming back up through your feet,
through your ankles,
allowing it to fill the space of your legs,
your knees, your hips,
moving up through your spine.
Allow that energy to spread through your shoulders,
down your arms, through your fingertips,
filling you with your light.
This light is moving up through your spine
even further still through your neck, through your head,
filling your magnificent head,
your eyes, your ears your nose, awakening your senses,
and it is going up up through the top of your head
connecting you deeply from above.
See and feel your body filled with this light.
This light is penetrating each of your cells.
Filling each cell with beautiful healing, grounding energy.
Filling each cell
with all the information you need
to feel just right, to heal, to boost your immune system,
to fill you with a deep sense of wellbeing.
Be in this energy right now.
Allow it to fill you.
(soothing instrumental music)
Gently, gently raise your right hand
and gently place it in the center of your chest,
reconnecting to the source of your light
right here in the center of your chest.
Allow this light to grow in intensity
in the center of your chest, connecting with your hand,
connecting with this special place in you
where you can trust deep down that all is well.
In your mind, begin repeating the phrase, "All is well."
All is well.
Knowing deep down inside of you, at any point in time,
you can place your hand over your heart
over the center of your chest, and just simply repeat,
all is well.
Activating this light inside of you
to boost your energy, to calm your mind,
to send loving light to every cell of your being.
To believe and feel and know that all is well.
Your body is taking care of you.
Your heart is taking care of you and all is well.
Gently releasing your hand from your chest.
Imagine this ball of light in the center of your chest
is ready to show you an image,
a time when you are living your life, when all is well.
As you take a big deep breath in,
allow that light, your light,
to grow so bright that it is shining a beam of light
from the center of your chest out in front of you
like an old fashioned movie projector, shining this light,
this beam of light onto a screen in front of you.
Imagine that beam of light right now.
Imagine this beam of light showing, revealing an image
a movie of you at some point in the future
where all is well, you are happy, grounded.
Picture that movie right now.
See it on the screen being projected from your light.
Allow yourself to see that movie
on the screen in front of you.
Allow it to come into focus right now
and as you watch this movie unfold,
slowly, slowly move toward this movie
until you are so close you are stepping inside of it.
You are merging with this moving image
until you are standing inside that moment in time
where all is well.
See yourself be there right now,
this moment where all is well.
Take a big deep breath in
and ground yourself in that moment in time when all is well.
Be there allowing this image to come into focus
and bring your senses fully to this experience.
Really see, where are you?
What do you hear in this time and place?
What can you touch?
What time of day is it?
What are you wearing?
Allow this moment to come alive for you.
As you explore this time and place,
see if you can notice at least three specific details.
Breathing in deeply this sense of wellbeing,
allowing the details to emerge.
Notice now how you feel.
What words would you use to describe
how you feel in this time and place where all is well?
Taking the next few moments to be in this place
to feel the energy, to notice the details.
Trust that you can come back here anytime you want.
This moment is yours.
It's inside your light.
You can go back here anytime you wish
to feel connected to this energy,
to go deeper into the details.
Slowly, slowly.
We are gonna return to this time and place
with an intention to remember as many details as possible.
On the next inhalation in,
I invite you to bring your awareness back
to this time and place to your body.
Feel the energy of your feet.
As you slowly wiggle your toes, softly wiggle your fingers
and when you're ready, very gently, gently open your eyes.
This new sense of calm and wellbeing is yours
and you can access it any time you want.
You can connect to this time
and place before you go to sleep.
When you wake up in the morning and throughout the day
simply by raising your right hand
connecting with the center of your chest over your heart
and saying, "All is well."
To awaken this sense of wellbeing,
to awaken your body's natural energy,
to stay grounded and healthy,
make a little small fist
as if you're gonna knock on the door
and I invite you to just knock on your chest right there.
Awaken your body to the sense that all is well.
Imagine yourself tapping,
knocking on the center of your chest,
repeating the phrase, "All is well."
Lastly, when you finish this visualization,
go ahead and grab a journal
and write down in present tense language
everything that you saw felt and experienced.
You're capturing the details of this visualization
this moment in time at some point in the future
when everything is well, you're well, the world is well.
This deep connection to wellbeing has already happened.
By writing it in the present tense,
you are bringing that energy to today, to this moment.
Record as many details as possible
and fill in whatever additional details come to you
as part of this creative writing exercise.
There are no wrong answers,
just curiosity, creativity, and play.
This recording is here for you whenever you need it.
So enjoy.
All is well.
(soothing instrumental music)
