

=== Preparation ===


--- Welcome ---

-: So, welcome to my presentation skills course.
My name's Chris Croft
and I'm really delighted that you've decided to invest
a little bit of money and time in presentations.
Presentations are really important.
Quite often, with job interviews nowadays,
you have to give a talk.
And presentations at things like conferences
are often career-defining moments.
There might be somebody in the audience
who offers you a job at some point or, you know,
it might be really important to get a big sales order
or something like that.
So presentations are really an important skill.
And in this course I'm gonna tell you
everything you need to know
to be able to give great presentations.
I've structured it that we're gonna look at
things to prepare before your talk
and then how to actually give the talk.
What are the practical things that you need to do
as you go through your presentation?
From how to do a great start,
then keeping the main body in a logical order
with an agenda and all that sort of thing,
and then how to finish.
Finish is important.
So let's get started.

--- Guide to Preparing a Confident Presentation ---

-: So welcome to my presentations course,
and the first part of the course is on planning.
Planning's obviously incredibly important because,
if you've planned your talk, well, it's bound to go fine.
So we're gonna go through all the practical things
you need to plan for a presentation.
And a good thing about this is you can do it calmly
either a few weeks or a few days
before the presentation itself.
So you can sit at a desk, and you can do all these things.
So let's get started on planning.


=== Overcoming Nervousness in Presentations: Tips and Strategies that work ===


--- How to plan a presentation: Covering key points and perfecting your timing ---

-: So, the first thing to plan with your talk
is what is the one central message of your talk?
So, let's say for example
you're going to do a talk about your trip to Australia.
My trip to Australia is not a central message,
your message has got to be,
Australia is better than you thought,
or Australia is not what you expect,
or don't go to Australia, or something like that,
but it has to be a really clear message.
If it's just all about Australia, that's no good.
Now, sometimes your one clear message isn't clear
until you've actually planned the talk.
And then, when you've planned everything you're gonna say,
you can then look at it and think, "Well,
what is this really adding up to?
You know, what I'm realizing
as I plan my talk about Australia
is that Australia was really different
to what I expected, and therefore that's my message."
Now, it's really key to decide
what your message is 'cause everything's hung around that.
So, you then say, "Right, I'm gonna talk to you
about why Australia was different to what you expected.
And the first thing that was different
is," so absolutely vital,
what is your one central message?
And that's a non-trivial question.
So, what I do when I'm planning a talk
is I draw out a mind map.
And I actually love mind maps on an iPad.
'cause you can just use your fingers
and move things around and insert subcategories.
But a mind map on a piece of paper is also great.
If you don't like mind maps,
by the way, if you dunno what they are, just Google them.
They're obvious really,
they've got the subject in the middle
and the the lines come out and then they divide
so you can have subsections.
But if you don't like mind maps, you could just have a list,
but I would really urge you to consider mind maps
'cause you can have subbranches.
What you sometimes find is that you have,
say, three or four branches
and then one of the branches goes into more and more detail
and you think, "Actually, that's really my talk
and I'm not gonna bother with the other little branches."
But if you've got three or four branches
and they're all roughly the same size,
you can then decide what order you want to have them in.
So, a mind map is a great way to think about
the structure of your talk.
So, once you've got the main body of your torque,
ideally three or four sections,
but it can be just two sections,
but quite often you can have three or four.
I wouldn't have 10 sections in a talk,
I would try to divide them down into three
and then have subsections within the three.
'cause our brains start to run out of road
when we get to more than about four or five sections.
So, once you've got the main body structured,
you can then think about what the introduction's gonna be
and what the summing up is at the end.
So, some people, when they're planning the structure
of their presentation,
they make the mistake of writing the introduction first,
but you must do the main body first
and then decide what the intro's gonna be
and what the summary's gonna be.
And then, the final thing to think about is your timing,
how long is your talk going to take?
And this is really the most difficult thing
about giving a presentation
is to keep it to the right length.
If you've gotta give a 25-minute talk,
how on earth are you going to do that?
Now, one way to do it if you're using PowerPoint for example
is to just think about minutes per slide.
Most people plan on about two minutes per slide,
so a 25-minute talk, you're probably gonna lose,
say, five minutes on the introduction and the summing up
so it's a 20-minute talk, two minutes per slide,
so that's 10 slides.
I actually find that I go slower than most people,
I take about five minutes per slide rather than two
and that's 'cause I quite like to improvise,
tell some stories,
and also I like to chat to the audience a little bit
and I'm gonna come back to that later
'cause that's a very important point,
interacting with the audience.
So, I find that on a typical slide
I've probably got five bullet points
and I like to explain each of the five bullet points
and ask people a question.
Have they had this problem?
What do they think?
So, it takes about a minute per bullet,
so for me it's five minutes per slide.
And that means a 20-minute talk is only four slides,
which is not many at all.
I find with most people,
they have far too many slides in their presentation.
I was with a customer recently
and they have a little PowerPoint slideshow
on welcome to our company,
and it shows potential customers
all about the history of their company
and it's got 40 slides.
So, even if you could just do one slide a minute,
it's gonna take you 40 minutes.
It had loads of boring pictures
of this is the company in 1900
and this was the extension we built in 1960,
and you just lose the will to live.
So, really 10 slides maximum, and probably less than that.
So, two to five minutes per slide.
And the final thought about this
is you can either plan top-down or bottom-up.
So, you can either say it's a 20-minute talk,
so if I'm averaging, let's say, three minutes per slide,
that's seven slides.
And then you can think what am I gonna put
on my seven slides?
The other way to do it
is to think what do I want my slides to be?
Then how many have I got?
And therefore how long is my talk?
And then when you discover the talk's too long,
you might have to cut a slide or two.
So, mind map,
do the main body in ideally about three sections,
then put the introduction and the summary
on the beginning and end,
and then think about your timing,
two to five minutes per slide.


=== Own the Stage: Best practices for presenting with confidence ===


--- Presentation opening lines: keep it simple and effective ---

-: So probably the most important part of your presentation
is the start, the first 30 seconds.
So you need to prepare this really carefully.
It's in these first 30 seconds that the audience decide,
"Do we want to listen to this person?"
But it's also in these 30 seconds
that you in your mind decide,
is this talk gonna be good or not?
So if it gets off to a bad start,
then you're really gonna be struggling.
So you absolutely must get off to a good start.
So prepare it really carefully.
And I would say there are three things
you can have in your start.
You must have one of these three.
You can have two of them or even all of them.
So the three things that you need to think about,
one of them is start with a question.
So if I was gonna do my talk about Australia,
I could say, how many of you have been to Australia?
Now, why is that a brilliant thing to do?
Well, it gets the audience involved from the start.
And even the people who don't physically answer,
in their mind, they're thinking,
"Well, I haven't been but I'd like to go."
Or, "Yeah, I've been."
So it gets everybody involved if you ask a question.
But also you need to know whether most of the audience
have been or most of them haven't.
So asking them a question,
how many people know about the changes to the tax system?
You know, whatever your talk's about.
So a really good start is a question.
The second way that you could start
is some sort of mysterious start.
So you could say, I'm gonna talk to you
about the biggest country in the world
or the country that's got the most poisonous snakes
of any country in the world.
Or you could even put a picture up and say,
does anybody know where this is?
And you could put up, let's say, some jungle
'cause people would think Australia
was going to be sort of red sand and desert.
So some sort of mysterious start.
So you could say,
"I'm gonna tell you three things you don't know
about the new tax changes."
Or, "I'm gonna tell you why
the new tax changes are going to change everything.
They're gonna have a huge effect on your business."
Something like that, something where they think,
"Ooh, I need to know that."
And I quite like the idea of three things.
Or, "I'm gonna tell you 10 things that you didn't know
about presentation skills."
It's kind of mysterious.
And you're thinking, "Oh, I need to know those 10."
The final thing you could have in the start
is the what's in it for me factor.
And again, you could say,
"I'm gonna show you 10 things that you need to know
about the tax system," but there needs to be something
where they say, "I need to know this."
So you need to say, "I'm gonna talk to you
about what's happening with the tax system.
And if you don't know about these things,
it could be really expensive,
it could lead to all sorts of problems."
Or, "If you do know about these,
you'll be able to make a lot more profit."
So going back to my Australia example, what's in it for you?
Why should you care about my trip to Australia?
And the answer is, I must say to you,
I'm gonna tell you about Australia.
Particularly, I'm gonna tell you about three things
that you must do when you go,
the best three things I discovered when I was there.
And also I'm gonna tell you about two things to avoid,
two things that are definitely not good to do
if you ever go to Australia.
So now I've got you because you're interested,
you can see what's in it for you.
So those are the three things to think about in your start.
Could you start with a question?
Could it be a little bit mysterious,
and could it cover the what's in it for me factor?
And I think you can see,
you can do all three of those ideally.
And then run through your start.
Just physically, actually stand there and present it,
ideally to a person, but if not,
perhaps to a dog or a cat or to an empty room,
but actually go through and say the words
so you can just check that it feels okay
and you don't stumble over anything.
You don't have to run through your whole talk.
But this starting 30 seconds,
you absolutely should run through it.
Make sure you've nailed it,
and then you'll feel much better before you start your talk.


=== Bonus & Thank You ===


--- Essential practicalities to prepare for a big presentation ---

-: So we've talked about your initial impact statement,
if you like, starting with a question
or something mysterious.
So now we get onto the main introduction of your talk.
What are the things that should be in your introduction?
Well, firstly, you have to say who you are.
And I think the main thing with this
is to give yourself credibility, but also be modest.
This is a quite a difficult trick.
So you don't wanna say, "I'm an expert, I know everything,"
'cause then they're just gonna think,
"Well, we don't like him or her,"
and they're gonna start to look
for any faults they can find in your talk.
So you don't want that.
You wanna just quietly say, "I've been doing this for years.
I've made every mistake you can make,
so I'm gonna help you to avoid those same mistakes."
Something like that.
And something I do is I don't always start with who I am.
I usually start with a bit about the talk
and what's in it for them.
And then I say, "By the way, I'm Chris,
I've been doing this for a while."
Because I don't think that I'm the most important thing,
so I don't wanna start with that.
The audience are the most important thing.
The message and the talk is the most important thing.
So start with that, and then mention who you are
with some sort of subtly modest credibility statement.
So who you are, your credibility.
We do need to cover the what's in it for them question,
which I've already talked about a bit.
But there needs to be, I think, repeated, something about,
"You really need to know about this, it's gonna help you,
it's gonna allow you to make more money,
it's gonna avoid accidents at work."
Whatever it is, why should they listen to this talk?
And you absolutely must prepare that
and have a good answer for that.
And then the next thing is to mention something
about the length of the talk.
People are obsessed by how long will this talk last,
and they're obsessed by you not taking longer.
So if it's a 25-minute talk,
you absolutely mustn't take 30 minutes.
Now, if it's a 30-minute talk,
it's absolutely fine to take 30.
But bizarrely, if you tell 'em it's a 20-minute talk
and you take 25, that's really bad.
So say to them, "It's a 20-minute talk,
and it really will take 20 minutes."
We're gonna come back to that later,
because when we're halfway, we're going to reassure them,
"By the way, we're halfway through the talk now."
People really worry a lot about you going over time.
I don't why, it's just one of those things.
Okay, so we've had who you are, some credibility,
perhaps covered later on in the intro.
We've had the what's in it for me?
We've had the length of the talk.
The next thing is to put up some sort of an agenda.
Absolutely vital to have an agenda.
And it needs to be visual.
So if you just say, "I'm gonna cover five things,
dah, dah, dah, dah, dah," then they're gonna think,
"What were those five again?"
So you need to have some visual agenda that they can see.
It could be a PowerPoint slide,
it could be on a piece of flip chart.
What I quite often do is if I'm doing a PowerPoint talk,
I have an agenda written on a flip chart page
off to the side, 'cause I like to see that as well.
It means I know where I am in the talk and what's coming up,
but also they can see the agenda
as I go through my PowerPoint slides.
But you can also have it down the side of your PowerPoint,
like a sort of menu on a website,
or even going across the top or the bottom
so that you gray out each bit of the agenda as you go.
But to have some sort of an agenda
that they can see all the way through is great.
There's one other way you could do the agenda.
You could put an agenda up at the start and say,
"This is what I'm gonna talk about, these five areas."
And then after the first part you could say,
"Right, so we finished the first part, onto the second."
Put the agenda up again.
And then after the second part, here's the agenda.
And if you've got quite a lot of sections,
you might not put the agenda up every time.
You might let a couple of sections go by and say,
"By the way, we're now on part seven,"
and put the agenda up again so they always can see
where they are in the tunnel.
Something else that needs to be in your introduction is,
is it okay to ask questions as we go along?
You've probably heard people doing presentations
and they say, "Please, could you keep
your questions to the end?"
Now, I personally don't like that,
because people are bottling up a question.
They're worrying about whether they're going
to ask the question at the end,
'cause they're a bit nervous about asking it
in front of the audience.
And also, they may be completely stuck
because you may have used some abbreviation
or some technical term and they don't know what it means.
And that could ruin the whole rest of the talk.
So I don't think you should say,
"Keep your questions to the end,"
I think you should say, "Feel free to ask questions during,
I like it.
If you're not sure about anything,
please just ask at any time."
I sometimes say, "If you think I'm talking a load
of rubbish as well, feel free to ask me a question
or to tell me that you don't agree,"
'cause I want my talk to be interactive
and I'm confident enough I can answer the questions.
It's gonna be fine.
And I'll come back to this in detail later on, you know,
what happens if you're asked a question you can't answer?
So you must say to them in the intro,
"Feel free to ask questions as we go along."
And then, finally, finish your introduction with a question.
So when you finish your whole introduction, you then say,
"Right, so we're ready to talk about my visit to Australia.
How many of you have been to Sydney?"
And that signifies that the first section's
gonna be about Sydney.
In fact, you could say, "The first section's
gonna be about Sydney, how many of you have been there?"
So finish with a question,
and that kind of tells them the intro is over
and we're now ready to go into section one of the talk.

--- Leave a lasting impression: 3 confident presentation endings ---

-: So we've talked about preparing the start
and that's really, really important.
I think the second most important part
of your talk is the finish.
That's what they're left with after they leave the room.
So the finish has to be good.
So what should be in the ideal finish?
Well, first of all,
I don't think you should finish with just,
"So any questions?"
You know, it shouldn't just sort of fizzle out.
And some people they talk just sort of fizzle out
and they go, "Well, so that's it really.
"And I hope it wasn't too boring."
And so by the way, never apologize.
Never apologize at the start of your talk.
Never apologize at the end of the talk.
Never say, "I hope it wasn't too boring."
Because people will think, "Actually yes,
"it was a bit boring, wasn't it?"
So, and so just to let it sort of fizzle out, say,
"So there we are.
"That's, I think that's it really.
"Any questions?"
That's obviously no good.
There has to be a, "So there you have it" factor.
I think of it as, so there you have it.
So for example, one of the best talks I've seen
on one of my training courses, they can do a talk
on anything they like for 10 minutes, right?
And one guy did a talk on how to iron a shirt
and he actually brought in an ironing board and a shirt.
I think it would've been even cooler
if he'd taken off his shirt and done it.
But he didn't, he brought in another shirt
and he showed us how to iron a shirt
and he was telling us all about you have to do the collar
and then you do this bit and then you go back.
And he was asking us,
why do you think you do it in this order?
It was a brilliant talk, but the best bit was the end
because when he'd finished doing all the shirt
he held the shirt up and he said
so there you have it, the perfect shirt.
And we all had to go.
"Yeah!" You had to stand up and clap.
It was so good.
So your talk needs to have a,
"So there you have it" factor at the end.
So if I was talking to you about my trip to Australia
I would probably just say, "So there you have it,
"how to have the best possible holiday
"in Australia and you really should go."
Or something like that.
Just some sort of, you know, nice little da-da finish.
And then you can say, "By the way, are there any questions?"
But the, "any questions" can't be your finish.
Now, a couple of ways to have a good finish.
You could have a summary, a recap so you could say,
"So there we have it.
"That's my talk on Australia.
"My top three things were you must cuddle a koala
"in Brisbane.
"You know, you must see the fruit bats of Bellingen Island.
"And you must see, you know, the dolphin in Tin Can Bay,
"or the turtles wherever."
So you just go back through your top points.
So that's a good way to finish.
Another way to finish is a call to action.
So you could say, "So what I want you to do
"after this talk is to go back, get the internet on
"and book a trip to Australia."
That's a bit serious.
But you could say, "So, you know, do bear in mind Australia
"as a possible holiday destination."
And certainly if your talk is about sales, you should say,
"Next time you need this service or this component
"please do consider us.
"Because as I've showed you,
"we have got four features that nobody else has got."
And by saying "Next time you need it, please do consider us"
you are putting that thought in their mind
and they'll think, "Yeah, yeah, I will."
And then when that next comes up, they'll think,
"Oh yeah, I was supposed to phone that guy."
So a call to action just leaves a little subliminal thing
a little trigger in their mind.
So you can finish with a summary
or you can finish with a call to action, or even both.
There's a final way you could finish,
which is to have a quiz.
And you might think a quiz is a bit patronizing
and a bit weird, but actually people love quizzes.
So you could say, right.
"So to finish, just for 30 seconds, I just wanna find
"out how much you can remember from my talk I just did.
"So what was the name of this?"
Or you know, "How many of these were there?"
And just see and just get people to shout out the answers.
And certainly if you really want 'em to
remember several things, if you have a quiz,
it gives you one more chance to tell them your message.
So consider finishing with a quiz.
Okay, so that's that's finishing .
My main points were it's gotta have a
so there you have it factor.
It's good to say any questions,
but that doesn't count as a finish.
You could have some sort of summary or recap,
you could have a call to action, and you could have a quiz.

--- Connecting with your audience: The key to public speaking ---

-: So the final thing
that you need to prepare is the audience.
What type of audience are they?
What type of people?
What level of knowledge are they gonna have?
They're probably gonna be a mixture, so that's a problem.
But it's worth just thinking, you know,
are they all gonna be qualified doctors?
Are they gonna be scientists
who know a lot about your talk already?
Or are they just gonna be the public?
So what type of audience?
And then what size of audience.
Now, the size of audience in some ways doesn't matter
because you're still gonna do the same talk.
And I try to talk to huge audiences
as if they're my friends,
and I'm just chatting to a small number.
So in a way, it doesn't matter.
But I think the one thing
that does matter with size of audience is
what sort of visual aid are you gonna have?
So with a small group, I like flip charts, personally.
I like to be able to just write
on the flip chart as I go along.
And I can involve them.
I can ask them for suggestions, and I can write them up.
And so that's what I would naturally choose.
I remember when PowerPoint was first invented.
That's how old I am.
I remember thinking, "PowerPoint's fantastic,"
and I made all these slides,
but I just I found that it wasn't as good,
going through a PowerPoint.
There's something about a flip chart where you just charge,
and you write things.
So for an audience of up to probably 30 people
I would go flip chart.,
'cause 30 is only a six by five block of chairs.
And they can all see the flip chart.
Bigger than that, you have to go PowerPoint.
And of course, if you're going to show photographs
and things, you have to have PowerPoint anyway.
So you need to think about your visual aid.
And I'm gonna come back to visual aids later.
But PowerPoint is definitely gonna be the option
if it's a bigger audience.
You could use just a handout.
So you could give out just a page of notes.
And what I do
when I've got a really big audience is I put a page
on each of their chairs with the notes on
so that when they come in, they've got that,
and then when they go, they take it away with them.
So they can write things on it during the talk or whatever,
and they take it away.
And of course, it's got my phone number
and my website on it.
So that's a nice thing for them to take away
and hopefully remember me
and maybe hire me later,
if that's the objective of the talk.
So you could just have a handout,
and if you're really pushed,
you can have a handout and no other visual aid.
You can just give them that,
and you can just talk 'em
through what's on the piece of paper.
But generally, it's much better if you can have a screen.
Now, something I learned from the great Brian Tracy,
who's totally a god,
I mean, if you haven't heard of Brian Tracy,
you must check him out.
I went to see him do a talk,
and it was about leadership in the morning.
It was about selling in the afternoon.
And he gave out a little A4 booklet,
and it had lots of gaps.
So it just said, "The salesman's biggest fear is,"
and you know, "When you're a leader,
there are three things you must remember, which are,"
and then it was just a gap.
So when I was listening to his talk, I was thinking
"What's the biggest fear gonna be?
What is it? What is it?"
And then when he said the biggest fear was rejection,
I think it was, I was quickly writing it down.
So I learned from him,
and I've copied it, and it works really well,
that you can give out a handout with gaps in,
and the audience can fill in the gaps as they go along.
So it prevents them reading ahead
and seeing in advance what you're gonna say.
But it keeps them occupied.
And when they've finished,
they've got this thing all filled in that's theirs,
that has some value to them,
which they're then going to keep forever.
And of course, it's got your phone number
and website on the bottom.
So you could use just a handout and have gaps in it,
or you could use PowerPoint plus a handout,
and audience size is going to affect your choice of that.
But the main thing is never have nothing,
never have no visual aid at all.
It's very difficult for audiences to cope
when you're just talking at them.
Now, I'm just talking at you now,
and it's not ideal,
but each of these videos is only about four
or five minutes long.
Plus, we're putting bullet points up next to me
'cause you have to, at the very least,
have bullet points coming up.
So that's what you need to think about
when you're planning your audience.

--- Preparation wrap up: final tips for success ---

-: Okay, so that was section one
on what to prepare before you do your presentation.
So you might want to take a break now
and go away and actually do that preparing,
and then I will see you for part two,
what to do when you actually present your presentation.

--- #1 Tip for overcoming public speaking nerves ---

-: So I've got seven tips for you on how to overcome nerves,
and the first one is self-talk,
what you say to yourself in your head.
Most people, as soon as they're told
they've got to give a talk in a month's time,
they think, "Oh, it's gonna be awful.
I hate giving talks."
If you say, I hate giving talks, then you will hate it,
and the more you tell yourself to hate it,
the more you hate it.
And if you say it's gonna be awful, it will be awful.
And if you keep thinking it's gonna be awful,
imagining it being awful, that will happen.
I had somebody on a course once and she said to me,
"However much I prepare, when I actually stand up
to give my talk, I can feel all my preparation
floating out of my head
and off up into the sky and it's gone."
And I remember thinking, oh God, that's such bad self-talk,
'cause if you can imagine it floating away,
then it probably will.
In fact, I've probably put that thought into your mind now.
So you must tell yourself it's going to be great.
Say, the talk will be great, I love giving talks.
It's gonna be fine. I'm the expert.
I know all about this subject. It's going to be fine.
Now, you're probably thinking, "Well,
but it isn't gonna be great, that's just not true."
And the answer is, I know it's not true.
I want you to lie to yourself.
I want you to say to yourself,
it's gonna be great, even though it's not.
Now, you mustn't say, "It's going to be great,"
because then your subconscious doesn't believe you.
You've gotta say, it is going to be great.
You've gotta say it as if you believe it.
And what will happen is that slowly that will become true.
It doesn't take long.
You've probably gotta say it 20 times,
spread it over a few days, just every now and then
say to yourself, I'm really looking forward to my talk.
It's gonna be great.
And after a while,
your subconscious gets bored with resisting that message,
and it just goes, "Yeah, yeah, it's gonna be great."
And that's when you know you've won.
So keep saying it till it becomes true,
and of course it's gonna be great, you are the expert.
So that's my first of my seven tips, self-talk.

--- How to stay confident under pressure on stage ---

-: The second of my seven confidence tips
is to have backup plans for everything,
then you know your bombproof.
So bring spare connecting leads. They don't cost very much.
Just have two leads for everything,
'cause leads are often the problem.
When you find your projector is making everything look
pink colored or yellow colored, it'll be the lead.
One of the little pins in the lead has got worn out,
so it's often the leads.
But also, if you can, bring a spare laptop,
and certainly when I go and do a presentation
and they say everything is provided, I bring my own laptop
'cause I quite often find they've uploaded my presentation
onto their laptop and the fonts are different
or it's a different version of PowerPoint or whatever,
and I just bring out my laptop and everything's fine.
Similarly, I have a spare projector in the boot of my car.
Now that perhaps is a bit obsessive.
I do training courses all the time, so it's easy for me.
But if you're gonna go and do a talk somewhere
and it's really important
and they say they've got a projector,
why not borrow the one from the office or whatever
and just chuck it in the back of your car?
Because sometimes there'll be a problem
with the projector at the far end.
I can think of two or three times over 10 years
where I've turned up and they've gone,
"Oh my god, Chris, it's awful.
The projector's not working."
And I've said, no problem. I've got mine.
And sometimes their projector isn't broken, it's just crap.
It's just all fuzzy and it's a really old one
that's been in the hotel for years and you just think,
(groans) so you bring out your own
and it's all sharp and bright.
So bring your own laptop, bring your own projector,
and bring all the wires as well.
Also, bring an extension lead
'cause quite often, you know, you can't reach to the plug
and it's just a small thing,
but why not have an extension lead in your car?
And then the final two things, bring spare notes.
So I bring handouts for the talk I'm gonna do,
and then, if there is a total failure of visual aids,
then I can still just give them the notes
and we can use those as a visual aid
and I can talk them through
the piece of paper that they're each holding,
so I bring notes.
The other thing, I always bring spare marker pens
because if you're gonna write on flip charts
or a whiteboard, the whiteboard pens are always dried up
and quite often the flip chart
just has a sort of yellow one or something.
So bring loads of pens as well, just in case.
So then you arrive with all this kit of stuff
and then you know that you're absolutely bombproof.

--- Post-presentation reflection: How to grow confidence after stepping off stage ---

-: My third tip to overcome nerves
and be more confident
is to chat to the audience as they arrive.
That this is a really good tip.
I don't know where I got it from.
I think I've just discovered it,
but get there really early,
get all your gear set up so you don't have to be faffing
with that while people are arriving.
And then you can just hang around at the front
and chat to people.
Now, why would you do that?
And you might say, "Well, I'm gonna be intimidated."
I suppose, they're all doctors or something like that.
You might be thinking, "Oh, these people are so scary."
But what happens is that you discover
that they're just normal people and you just say,
"Welcome to the talk.
"Have you come far," or whatever,
or "Why did you decide to come to this talk?"
And you can find out that, firstly, they're normal people.
Secondly,
you can adjust your talk subtly to what they want
because you'll know what kind of people they are.
You'll be on their wavelength as you do that.
So it helps you to tailor your talk
and make sure it's spot on.
And thirdly,
it means you've got some friendly faces
in the audience already.
If you've talked to three of them,
then you'll see them smiling as you're doing your talk,
and you'll feel good about it.
So hang around and chat to people as they arrive.
That's a really important tip.
It does mean you need to get there early, though,
get everything else done before anybody comes,
but I would recommend that anyway.
The last thing you want is to be panicking,
trying to get your gear working correctly
as the audience are already arriving.
So that is tip number three.

--- Prepare early, present confidently: The key to beating nervousness ---

-: Tip number four for getting rid
of nerves is to get there really early.
Now I refer to this a little bit
in the previous video,
but get there really, really early.
The last thing you want is to be stuck in traffic,
having stress or whatever.
And quite often when you get to the room,
you find that it's not what you expected.
The chairs are all in the wrong places.
There isn't a flip chart or whatever.
The screen isn't quite straight
and it takes a bit
of fiddling to get the screen the way you want it.
So get there really early,
and check the room and the equipment.
If I'm doing a talk, I quite often go
up the night before and stay in the hotel.
And I like to go and look at the room the evening before
because then I sort of feel subconsciously
that it's my territory.
And then when I go back there in the morning,
I already know what I'm expecting,
and it feels kind of easy and natural.
It's my room then.
So get there really early.
Check all the equipment well in advance.
If they've preloaded your PowerPoint presentation,
then have a look at it before anybody gets there
'cause you obviously you can't have slides coming
up when the audience are already there.
So go through them.
And I would go through every single slide just quickly
because sometimes you find that, you know,
the fonts have got corrupted or they've got different fonts,
or that the person who's organizing it has very
helpfully fiddled with your presentation
which is really one of my pet hates.
I've done it the way I want it.
"Oh, I just thought I'd improve it for you, Chris."
So get there really early
make sure everything's the way it should be.
You might wonder why someone would change my presentation,
but sometimes they change it
to their corporate colors or their corporate font.
So it all has to be, you know, pink and yellow
or it has to be in Arial
or some sort of horrible font like that.
So you get there and they'd go,
"I hope you didn't mind.
"I've made it into our corporate colors."
And I kind of have to live with that,
but at least I can go back through
and just make sure that everything fits on.
And it at least is easy enough to see.
But it is a real pet hate
of mine to change my presentation.
And then you've got time to just relax
and have a chat to people as they arrive.
So that's tip four.
Get there really early.

--- Why confidence builds the moment you begin your presentation ---

-: Tip number five out of seven
for increasing your confidence is to stand up.
Now, you probably don't want to stand up.
A lot of people worry about standing up.
but it is definitely better.
A bit like swimming in cold water.
It's great once you're in and it is better once you're up.
So I would absolutely say stand up.
If you're using PowerPoint,
you can operate it from sitting down, but don't.
The reason why you should stand up,
there's a number of reasons actually,
but partly that you're easily visible
from the audience, they can see you.
Secondly, your brain works better when you're standing up.
I think when you're standing up,
your heart has to work harder to pump all the blood around
and therefore, it pumps around quicker,
and so more oxygen gets to your brain or something.
But I bet you know that's right though
because when you're on the phone,
if you're doing a difficult phone call,
don't you find it's better if you do it
while you're pacing around?
So your brain works better.
So your brain works better, people can see you,
it gives you more authority if you're standing up.
Your voice carries better as well,
but also it shows respect to the audience
if you stand up for them.
I mean, if you're just sort of lounging in a chair,
chatting, I mean, it's almost like
you don't really care about the audience.
So for all these reasons, you absolutely must stand up.
And I quite like to use visual aids as an excuse.
So if it's just a small group of say three people
I'm gonna present to, it might feel a bit weird to stand up.
And I say, well, let me show you this,
and I then point to something on the screen.
So then, then I've got an excuse to stand up to point to it,
and then I just stay standing up as I do my talk.
So stand up, you will actually feel
more in control and more confident.

--- Ask to connect: Reduce presentation nerves with audience questions ---

-: Suggestion number six
to improve your confidence
and overcome nerves is,
I think probably my favorite one,
which is to ask the audience questions during your talk.
Now, this takes a little bit of practice,
but believe me,
it's brilliant once you get used to it.
Ask them questions during your talk.
If you just do a talk
and they're all just sitting there silently, it's horrible.
Are they listening?
Are they bored?
Do they agree with it?
Do they understand it?
I don't know.
So I like to ask questions.
Have you been to Australia?
What did you think?
Has anybody stroked a koala?
What do you think a koala feels like?
Do you think it's soft or not?
'Cause by the way, they're not that soft.
They're like a bit of old carpet.
You could ask them, what do you think's softer,
a koala or a kangaroo?
'Cause actually the kangaroos are much softer,
but who'd have thought?
So, any questions you like.
Now I just make up questions as I go along
like I just did then.
But you might wanna prepare your questions initially
if this is a new game for you.
So for each PowerPoint slide
and you're probably gonna have between
five and 10,
prepare at least one question for the audience.
And they can be quite generic
like has anybody else had this?
Or can anybody give me an example?
Or even, what do you think my next point's gonna be?
Has anybody got any other suggestions?
Those type of questions.
Really important to ask questions during.
And it feels great because when you get answers coming back,
you know that the audience are
with you and they're on your side.
Now the worst case is you ask a question
and you get nothing.
And I'm gonna come back to that later
'cause I'm gonna talk
about what to do with difficult audiences.
But, you know, just to jump forward slightly to that,
you could pick on a person and say,
Louise, what do you think?
Or you on the end there, have you ever had this?
So you could actually pick on people,
or you could just say
hands up everybody who's had this.
'Cause even if they're very shy and very introvert,
they could still put their hand up.
So how many of you like giving presentations?
Or how many of you have given a presentation
in the last month?
And just see how many people put their hand up.
So asking questions during is absolutely key.
It will make you feel much more relaxed
and it'll make the talk feel much more interactive
with the audience.
So they will enjoy it more.
And they will understand your key message much more clearly
if they've been involved in the talk
rather than just sitting there
and having it thrown at them.
So that's number six.
Ask questions during.

--- The role of practice for reducing stage fright in presentations ---

-: And finally, my seventh suggestion
for improving your confidence
and overcoming nerves is to have a run through,
to check the timing,
especially the first minute of your talk.
You absolutely must run through that,
and you could run through the whole talk
just to check the timing's okay.
I've been doing this so long now.
I know that I take about five minutes per slide
and I know that if I'm going fast or slower,
I can correct as I go along.
But you might want to just check
that your 25-minute talk isn't gonna turn out
to be an hour or three minutes.
So have a run through and then you know that it's all fine.
Now, as you do the run through,
you might feel a bit nervous
and you may feel it's increasing your nerves,
but if you've had a run through,
you'll feel much more confident
when you actually get there to do the talk.
I wouldn't do loads of run throughs though.
It starts to get a bit stale then.
I think I would do two run throughs at the most.
That's my seventh tip for improving your confidence.
Have a run through,
especially of the first minute of your talk.

--- Mastering the Wrap-Up: Conclude your presentation with impact ---

-: So, those were my seven tips for improving your confidence
and overcoming nerves, and I really hope those have helped.
Even if you just do some of them,
even if you just get there early, chat to the audience
as they arrive and then ask them questions
during the talk, that will make a big difference.
But also having spare everything
so that you know you're bomb-proof.
Anyway, whichever one of those tips you choose,
and I hope you do all seven,
that should make you feel much more confident
about your talk.

--- Introduction ---

-: Okay, so we've looked at what to prepare
and how to overcome nerves.
Now we're going to get to section three
which is what to do as you deliver your presentation.

--- Project confidence by looking the part in your next presentation ---

-: So the first thing to think about
when you do a presentation is your appearance.
What should you look like?
And the main thing is obviously to be smart, but how smart?
And I think similar to the audience really, perhaps similar
to the audience, but a bit smarter than them.
So, you don't wanna be ridiculously smart
if you're gonna talk to a load of cool IT people
who are all there in t-shirt.
If you turn up in a suit and tie,
you are just gonna look a bit weird
and they're not gonna relate to you.
They're not gonna like you.
They're not gonna trust your opinions on things
if you are wearing really different clothes.
So similar to them, but a little bit smarter.
I think there's a big dilemma for men at the moment
about whether to wear a tie or not.
I went to a posh dinner, an awards dinner the other week
and half the the men were wearing ties,
half the men weren't.
So it's quite tricky.
I wasn't.
I prefer not to wear a tie.
I don't like the feeling of a tie.
And I've got a belief that really important people
don't wear ties and people who wear ties
are trying to look important.
But I did have a tie in my pocket 'cause I thought
what if I turn up and they're all wearing ties.
I could nip out again and quickly put a tie on.
But actually it was really interesting.
It was 50 50 split.
I would say probably slightly more people not wearing ties.
So I think important, relaxed, creative people
tend to not wear a tie.
So I would wear a nice shirt, no tie, and a jacket.
For women, who knows?
I mean, I'm out of my depth there, but you all know
I think the main thing though is nothing distracting
for both men and women.
Nothing distracting, nothing low cut or see-through.
In fact, if you look back through my Udemy videos
you'll find on one of them, for the first couple of videos,
I had one button too many undone.
I think it was, this one was undone.
See if you can find it.
And it was really a little bit sort of, hello.
So you don't want anything like that.
Nothing that they're gonna think, "He's got a lot of
"our buttons undone there."
So, nothing that's gonna distract the audience.
And people are very easily distracted.
If there's anything not quite right,
if your tie isn't straight or anything like that
or if you've got your hair brushed right over,
the audience are gonna be looking at that.
So you've got to be professional and boring.
I know that seems strange to be boring
but really nothing weird or distracting.
Don't wear some unusual tie 'cause you think people
will remember you 'cause yes, they'll remember your tie
but they won't remember what you said.
And don't worry about trying to look great either.
There was some research done in Italy.
I mean, I know you could say Italy's different
but they found that the more attractive the newsreader was,
the less the audience remembered.
There was an absolute correlation.
More attractive, they remember less.
So if you are thinking that you're not great looking,
don't worry, it's fine.
Your talk's actually gonna be better
'cause they're gonna remember more of it.
But the main thing is nothing weird or distracting.
Just boring and smart.

--- Effective room planning: Set up your space ---

-: So you've thought about yourself and your appearance.
The next thing to think about is the room layout.
Where are you gonna stand?
And what should the audience layout look like?
So there are probably four main audience layouts
you can get.
My favorite for groups up to about 20 is U-shape of tables.
I like a U-shape because they can look at each other
a little bit as well as just me.
And also, I can walk down into the middle of the U
if I want to give out notes halfway through or whatever.
And it also gives me
a certain amount of control over them if I walk around.
'Cause if you've got a big long table, a boardroom table,
the people at the far end can sort of chat and whisper,
and it's hard to keep control of them
if you've got more than about 10 people around the table.
But a U-shape of tables,
you've got control over all of them.
So that's my preferred audience layout.
But I also like what they call cafe style.
And this is a collection of tables, maybe five tables,
but it can be up to 20, I suppose.
It's usually about five tables.
And then you have people sitting round the tables.
Now you don't have them sitting
all the way round the table,
'cause some of 'em would have their back to you.
So you'd probably have about four or five people
sitting round the far side of each table.
And that's great for group work.
They can work in groups
and then you can come back to the presentation.
The only problem with cafe style is
that often it ends up being quite wide.
There's a table there, a table there, and a table there.
So I don't really know where to face.
So I have to sort of walk around quite a lot.
And if I've only got one screen,
the people at the far end struggle to see the screen.
But sometimes you have several screens, of course,
and then cafe is great.
So you've got U-shaped, you've got cafe.
Sometimes you get classroom style,
which is just rows of chairs.
And that can be just a block of seats,
or it could actually be a kind of an auditorium
sort of classroom, maybe even banked.
I don't like classroom so much
because it's harder to be interactive with people.
With bigger audiences, it has to be classroom,
but a smaller audience,
I wouldn't want classroom style, really.
But sometimes it's like that.
And you can still be interactive and you can chat to people,
particularly the people on the front row,
you can chat to them.
By the way, if you're putting out chairs,
I usually put out slightly fewer chairs
so that they have to fill up right to the front.
And then as more people arrive, I pull out a few more chairs
as if to say, "Oh, my God,
so many people have arrived to my talk.
More people than I was expecting."
'Cause if you've got loads of chairs
and you end up with a few empty ones,
the empty ones will be at the front
and it sort of looks bad
as if you haven't sold all the tickets type of feeling.
So that's a little tip.
Put some chairs away, bring them back out again.
You can just have a U-shape of chairs.
I prefer tables,
'cause I think people feel a bit vulnerable
if they don't have a table,
and also, if they're gonna write notes and things.
But you can just have a U-shape of chairs,
that's the other option.
Now just thinking a bit more about room layout.
Sometimes you have a problem with a very wide room
or a very long room, and both of those are a problem.
Really, you want kind of square shaped
because if the room's really long,
you're gonna have people way at the back
who perhaps can't hear you, can't see the screen,
and you may lose control of them.
They might start chatting amongst themselves and things.
And if you've got a very wide room, as I mentioned earlier
with the cafe style, then it can be a problem
'cause they can't all see the screen or the flip chart.
So if you can have a fairly square room, that's better,
but sometimes it's unavoidable.
And then there's the question of where are you gonna stand?
'Cause obviously, you don't wanna block the screen
and you don't wanna block the screen for anyone.
So ideally, if my audience are where you are
and that's the screen, then I would be off to the side
looking at the screen like that.
So I would be sort of diagonally,
so I can see them and the screen.
So that's ideally how I would be.
So you need to think about where are you going to stand?
And maybe you have to move some tables out of the way
and that sort of thing.
And just a final thought is, don't block the door, either.
So quite often, I arrive to do a training day
and there's a big long table and there's a door at one end.
And I've got the choice
of which end of the table should I put in?
And I always put the flip chart at the end
away from the door,
so that people come in the door,
and then there's the table and there's me behind the table,
because then they don't feel trapped.
I don't want 'em to feel that
if they have to nip out to the loo or whatever,
they have to get past me and my flip chart.
It feels like I've captured them.
And also, you don't wanna have interruptions
if someone does have to go to the loo,
they need to be able to just go out the back.
So ideally, you wouldn't be by the door
or blocking the door.
So there are some thoughts about audience layout.

--- Gestures and visual cues to engage the audience ---

-: So now we come to the agenda
and the idea of signposting.
And this is really, really crucial, actually.
I've mentioned already that you would have an agenda.
You must have an agenda, and it must be visual.
So a verbal agenda's no good,
people can't remember the agenda.
You've gotta actually show it to them,
and you've gotta bring it up again
after each section of your talk.
But the key thing I want to say is signpost it.
So you say to them, "Right, that was section one,
we've talked about that.
Now we're going on to section two."
And you have the agenda up while you say that.
So every time you've finished a section,
you put the agenda back up, and you say,
"So there we are. We've now finished section two.
We've got two more sections to do."
And I liken this to being on a train
and going past the stations.
So you've got your journey
and you know we've now gone through Basingstoke,
and next it's Woking, and then...
So you know where you're heading,
and you know that London is nearly there.
So it's really important to signpost.
And, in fact, it's almost like going into a tunnel, really.
A presentation, it's like you go into this tunnel,
and you don't know how long you're gonna be in the tunnel,
and the person doing the presentation has promised
it's gonna be 20 minutes, but is it?
But isn't it great if they say,
"You've now passed this milestone.
You've now passed this milestone"?
Because then you know that you're on schedule.
So, "How long will I be in the tunnel for?"
is what the audience are desperate to know,
and they're really worried they're gonna be in the tunnel
longer than promised.
So have an agenda signposted as you go along.
And just a final thought,
signpost that the ending is coming as well.
So if you're talking about, say seven things on the agenda,
when you've done five, you can say,
"I've only got two more now, and then we're finished."
And then you get to the seventh one, and you say,
"Now my final point, I'm gonna talk about this,
and then we're finished."
So they're not gonna be suddenly taken by surprise.
It's a bit like Bob Dylan does a harmonica solo
before the final verse.
So you always know when you get to the,
some would say badly-played harmonica solo,
that you know that you've only got one verse to go,
and then you can either feel happy
that Bob has nearly finished
or sad that Bob has nearly finished.
So if you say, "One more section, and then we're finished,"
everybody knows.
And then, when you finally say,
"So that's it, that's the end of my talk.
Just to sum up, I've covered three things,"
it's not a sudden dropping off a cliff.
'Cause I've seen presentations
where the person is talking and talking,
and they suddenly go, "And that's the end."
You think, "What? I didn't know the end was coming."
So signpost the end is coming,
with two sections to go and one section to go.

--- How to Use Body Language to Make a Powerful Impression ---

-: So this next section's about body language.
Some people are obsessed with this.
Some presentations trainers,
they say that you mustn't say um or eh,
and you mustn't put your hands in your pockets,
and you must...
One talk, presentation course I went on ages ago,
the lady was saying you should have a power stance.
You should be sort of like this when you do your talk.
So if somebody tried to push you over,
they wouldn't be able to push you over,
you should sort of be like that.
And I'm thinking really?
'Cause I just think you should be yourself really.
You should be relaxed and you should be yourself.
But I've already mentioned, you absolutely should stand up,
and obviously you don't wanna be doing anything
too weird with your hands.
I think it is all right possibly to have one hand
in your pocket while you're talking,
I think, you know, it'd be quite relaxed
to be sort of talking like that perhaps.
I think both hands in your pockets would be dodgy.
Don't wanna gesticulate too much,
but just however you would normally do it.
So, but definitely stand up and I've already mentioned
you can use a visual aid as an excuse.
You can say, I'm just gonna point to this
and you can stand up.
But I think your stance should be fairly natural.
I think you should walk around a little bit.
Don't pace up and down endlessly,
but I think you absolutely should walk around a little bit,
talk to the table over there, talk to the table over there
if you've got several tables cafe style.
Try to be a little bit smiley.
Now, you may not want to smile
because you may be really terrified of doing your talk,
but if you can have the occasional amusing thing,
if you can smile a little bit, that would be good.
And one more thing about body language
is equal eye contact for everybody.
Now, obviously with a big audience you can't do it,
but you should spread your eye contact out.
So talk a little bit to the people over there,
and then talk to them, and talk to the back a little bit,
and just go for the corners really,
because if you just latch onto one person
and always talk to them, it's a little bit weird
and creepy for them, and it's horrible for everybody else
'cause they'll all go, excuse me, what about me?
Don't you care about me?
So if you can keep moving your eye contact around,
then everybody will feel that they're included,
but not under pressure.
So those are the main things, I think stand up,
stand reasonably confident.
By the way, I wouldn't hide behind a podium.
You may think you need a podium for your notes,
but I'm gonna deal with that later on
'cause you don't need notes, I will come to that later.
So don't stand behind a podium.
If there is a podium, come out from around,
and either lean on the podium or stand next to it
and talk to the audience, they'll much prefer that.
So standing up, standing confidently, smiling,
and equal eye contact for everyone.

--- Tips for engaging your Audience ---

-: The next thing to think about
when you're doing your talk
is how are you going to be interactive with the audience?
I mentioned this in the section on confidence
because it's so important
if you can be having a bit of a laugh with the audience
and asking them things
and they're telling you the examples they've had,
it feels almost more like a conversation
than a presentation,
and I think that's what great talks are like.
And when I talk at conferences,
usually there's six or 10 speakers during the day
and I'm the only one who asks the audience what they think
and has a bit of a banter going with the audience,
a bit of chat.
And people always love that,
so this is something you can easily do
that will make you better than the other speakers.
So, so first of all, prepare it,
think, "What questions am I gonna ask the audience?"
And you need to allow time for that.
A lot of time goes by
when you're asking them for examples
so it may double the time that you need
and therefore you've only got half the material
that you think.
And that is a bit scary.
And sometimes I look and I think, "Oh my God,
I've only got three PowerPoint slides for 20 minutes,
this is really," but of course it's gonna be fine
because I'm gonna ask them for examples.
Now, I'm gonna come back to timing later
because what you can do is have a few extra things
in which you can miss out if you need to
so then you don't feel too worried.
And if the audience just don't answer anything,
you're still okay 'cause you've got your extra stuff,
but I'll come back to that later in a more scientific way.
But certainly you need to allow time
if you're going to be interactive with the audience.
I already mentioned the benefits before,
but just to summarize them again.
You know the audience are with you,
you know they're on your side,
they know that they're,
you know that they're understanding your message
if you're getting answers back from them.
But also you can correct, you can go faster or slower,
you can go into more detail or you can simplify things
if the audience is struggling to answer your questions.
But also it gives you time to think
'cause when you ask them a question and they're answering,
although you do have to listen to their answer,
it gives you a little bit of time
just to catch up in your mind
and to reload and to think, "You know, how's the talk going?
Have I covered everything?"
Just gives you time to think.
Another benefit when you ask the audience a question
is they have to answer it in their head
even if they don't say anything, they have to answer it.
So, when you say, "Who's been to Australia?"
they're all answering that
even though they may not say it out loud.
Now, if the audience are not very chatty,
it's quite a formal occasion,
you could just ask them a yes or no question.
Ideally, you'd ask for people,
you'd ask them to give you examples.
So, suppose you're doing a talk on negotiating,
you might say, "Who's done a negotiation recently?"
But you could just say, "Who likes negotiating?
and put your hand up or whatever."
But I like to usually ask them for an example
or ask them what the answer is.
What do you think you should do
if somebody else refuses to negotiate?
So, here are some examples of the types of questions
that you could ask somebody while you're giving a talk.
You could say,
"Who thinks that they're too much of a perfectionist?"
And if they don't reply,
you could get them to put their hand up,
"You know, hands up who thinks
they're too much of a perfectionist."
By the way, another thing you can do
is you can get them into pairs.
So, you could say, "Okay, I just want you to talk
for a couple of minutes to the person next to you
about your biggest time management problem,
or your worst habit, or what your boss is like.
Talk to your next door neighbor about your boss."
And then, you can have a rest for a couple of minutes
while there's loads of hubbub, everybody talks.
Slightly awkward you've gotta get control again,
but that'll be fine.
So, after a couple of minutes you say
"Okay, everybody. Right, let's see what you've got.
So, hands up who had a bad boss?
And give me some examples of things that bad bosses do."
And what you'll find
is that because they've been talking to each other in pairs,
that's loosened them up
and they've now got a message that they are proud of
and they would like to give to the group
so they're much more likely to be forthcoming
if they've just been talking in pairs.
So, questions you could have
are who's had a bad boss in the past?
What sort of things do bad bosses do?
What kind of things can go wrong during a talk?
That's a great question to ask.
What can a person do to make themselves feel more confident?
You can ask that question.
And if it's a small audience and you are using a flip chart,
you can just write the things up,
"So, what can someone do
to make themselves feel more confident, anybody?"
And you can just write the ideas,
and people love seeing their idea
written up on the flip chart
so that's a good way you can harvest in the ideas.
If you are using PowerPoint, you can't really do that,
but what you can do is you can ask them for ideas
and then you can put your list up
and you can say, "Yep, well done,
you got that one, you got that one.
That's an extra one that nobody got."
So, you can do it like that.
So, there are just loads of questions you can ask.
You can say, "What would be the answer
to someone asking you to split the difference
in a negotiation?"
And just see what they say.
Or you could put up a photo and you could say,
"How many safety hazards can you see in this photo?"
And people can shout out, "You know,
the ladder looks wobbly,
the bloke's standing on a roller skate or whatever."
So, spotting the problems in a photo
is a great way to be interactive with the audience.
And then, you can follow that with saying,
"What's the biggest cause of accidents in factories,
do you think?"
So, plan your questions, be interactive,
it's probably the most important thing
to doing a great talk.

--- Speaking from memory: How to deliver a powerful talk without notes ---

-: So this next section is on how to remember your talk.
Wouldn't it be great to do a talk without any notes?
And you can, I'm gonna show you how.
So, in increasing order of goodness, really,
starting with the worst one, never read from a script.
It's just horrible, reading out a talk from a script.
It means there's no eye contact with the audience.
It's just gonna sound stilted and it's awful.
So never write a script out and read it.
I mean, part from everything else,
it's a whole load of work to have
to write the script out as well.
So that's the good news
is you don't have to write a great big script.
And similarly, never learn a script off by heart.
I mean, I suppose that's slightly better
than reading it out, but learning it
off my heart is a huge job to have to do.
And what happens if your mind goes blank
at the beginning of your talk or halfway through it?
You are really stuffed.
And if you've got the script,
you'll be rummaging for where you are,
where's your, you know,
where's your place in the script?
So never read from a script,
never learn a script off by heart.
Just don't do scripts.
So that's good news.
So onto things that I like.
I think an A4 page of notes is good.
You know, imagine if you had just a piece of paper
and on here I've got about 10 things written in capitals.
I could just hold that and do my talk.
And how would you feel if you were the audience?
And I was just every now and then thinking
well the next thing I wanna tell you about is this,
dah dah dah dah.
And then the next thing I would tell you about is this.
Would you be thinking, "He's cheating, he's got notes"?
I think you wouldn't, I think you'd be fine with it.
In fact, you probably would be pleased
that I'd done a bit of preparation.
So I think an A4 page is absolutely fine.
And of course what you can do if you leave your A4 page
on the table, then every now and then when
you have a quick look at it, they're probably
not even gonna notice that you're looking at it.
So if I'm writing on a flip chart
I quite often put the A4 page
on the floor next to the flip chart or
on a chair just behind the flip chart so I can see it
but the audience can't tell that I'm looking at it.
A4 is good.
I don't like little cards of notes.
You know, the classic wedding speech where they have cards
in their hand.
I just think cards are a bit naff, they're a bit
wedding speechy and they have problems, as well.
Because they're small,
the writing has to be small, which is hard to see.
And then you have to keep turning them over.
And of course the audience can see them.
I always want to shout out, "I can see your cards"
'cause, just 'cause they're small enough to be in your hand
you can still see them.
But the main problem I find with cards is
that you don't know what's coming next.
So when you flip over the card, you think,
"Oh yes, I was gonna talk about that next."
Whereas if you've got your A4 page,
you can see what's coming next.
So there's more of a flow and you can lead into it.
You can say "Now I'm going onto my next section which is X."
So I just think cards, they don't flow.
There's a risk you're gonna drop them
and get them in the wrong order.
They're just, I wouldn't have cards personally.
I don't recommend them.
So A4 page of notes,
you could put 'em on the table or behind the flip chart.
Another little trick if you're using a flip chart is
that you can write
in pencil just very lightly on the flip chart
and the audience won't be able to see the pencil,
but you can.
So you then write
in your big marker pen on the flip chart,
but you've got the pencil telling you what to put.
So that's a clever thing you can do.
But I think the best way of all
is probably just to be cued by your visual aid.
And if you're using PowerPoint,
this is what you have to do.
Cued by your visual aid.
So the visuals that come up
on PowerPoint should tell you what to do anyway.
If you've just got bullets coming up,
that should be enough to remind you what to say.
Now when you do your run through, if you find
that you can't remember a key number, a date or a population
or something that, or a price, then put that on the slide.
And if there are three points you want to make about one
of the bullets and you can't remember what the three are,
then put those three points as sort
of sub-bullets underneath that bullet point.
So when you find it gets too complicated
you can't remember it, that's a sign,
you just need to put a little bit more on your visual aid.
But the visual aid should just be bullets.
You definitely don't wanna have paragraphs
of text that you are reading out
'cause the audience are thinking, "Well I could read that.
"Why is he reading it to me?"
So no paragraphs of text, just bullets.
I read somewhere that you should never have more
than seven bullets on one PowerPoint slide.
And I think that's a good rule actually.
Ideally, fewer than that; four or five
is probably the ideal number.
But as I mentioned, you could have a few sub-bullets
if there are particular points you want to remember.
But if you find you've got seven bullets
and within each of them there's four sub-bullets,
then clearly you need to have seven slides.
And each of those is gonna have four bullets on it.
So you've just gotta divide it down
but then you've gotta start thinking
how long is my talk gonna be?
So you've gotta keep an eye on that.
So to sum this up then, never write a script,
never have to read it out.
Never learn the script off by heart.
Never have scripts.
And I don't think cards are very good, either.
Have A4 notes on the table or on the floor,
pencil on your flip chart, or be cued by your visual aid.

--- Understanding Micro Sleeps: How to avoid fatigue and stay engaged ---

-: In this next section,
I want to talk to you about micros sleeps.
Now, a bit of a weird idea,
but the idea is that people have,
they don't actually fall asleep,
but they have these little things called micros sleeps
where they just daydream
and their mind goes off for a while.
You can have good or bad micro sleeps.
The good ones are where your audience
are thinking about your message.
They're thinking, "Yes, I suppose I do have micro sleeps.
Yes, he's right."
And then the bad ones are where they're thinking,
"God, he's taking a while.
You know, I wonder how long it is till lunch.
I wonder what I'm gonna have for lunch."
Or they're thinking, "God that shirt of his is rather nice.
I wonder where he bought that.
It's been ages since I treated myself to a new shirt,"
and there're off in some complete, you know, daydream
that's got nothing to do with your talk.
Now people will have micro sleeps,
there's nothing you can do about it.
And apparently, for the first five minutes,
people can manage to concentrate,
but after that, micros sleeps get more and more prevalent.
And by the time you've been talking for half an hour,
they're away with the fairies about 50% of the time.
So how do you handle the fact
that people are having micro sleeps?
And the first thing is to say everything important twice,
'cause if you say it a second time,
the chances are they won't be asleep both times
and they'll get your message,
so find a way to say things twice.
One way is to say it in the introduction
and then in the main body and then when you sum up,
so at least when you sum up,
they're gonna hear it a second time.
But quite often you can manage to give an example,
say you say, for example, when you go to Australia,
you must have a look at the koala bears in Brisbane.
I know they're not bears by the way, they're just koalas.
And then you say, and here's a picture
of one of the koalas in Brisbane.
And then you say, so that was my first point.
Obviously, you've gotta see the koalas in Brisbane.
So find an excuse to really hammer that point in
'cause they will be micro sleeping.
And then the other way you can do it is to have visuals,
'cause while I'm showing you a picture of a koala,
even if your mind is away thinking about lunch,
your eyes are still open, hopefully.
So you're still seeing the koala
and you're still thinking, "Oh yeah, there's a koala there."
So if you can have visuals as well as the talk,
then you can overcome the tendency to have micro sleeps,
and then do the summing up of course.
So, and the summing up is not just
so they can hear it twice,
but it gives 'em a chance to get back on the train.
So imagine, you know, we're going through these stations,
but imagine if every now and then people fall off the train.
If you stop and say, okay,
so that was number eight, micros sleeps,
now I'm gonna go onto point number nine,
they can, they think, "Oh, oh, oh, okay, right,"
and then they get back onto your talk.
So sum up every now and then,
so they can get back on the train.
So that is micro sleeps.

--- Six activity ideas to boost engagement in talks longer than 15 Minutes ---

-: Now what if you are doing a a longer talk,
a talk that's longer than let's say, 15 minutes.
It's a good idea to put an activity or two in.
And certainly if you're doing a talk for several hours,
you've got to have activities in that talk.
And I've got six ideas
for activities that you can put into a talk.
My first one is discussion in pairs.
I mentioned this before.
You just say to the audience,
talk to your next door neighbor about, you know,
what the strategy is for your company,
or what you think of your boss,
or how much do they know about
the data protection legislation or whatever it is.
And just get 'em to chat in pairs.
And this loosens them up and it makes it much easier
then to get them to talk to everybody later on.
So that's the first thing, talking in pairs.
The second one is to get to shout things out
and write them on the flip chart.
And as I mentioned earlier, if they're talking in pairs,
they're much more likely to engage with this second idea.
So you get them to shout out ideas and you write them up.
So you'd say things like
what do you think the main things are
that you would want to do
if you were on holiday in Australia?
And they go koalas.
And you can write that one up and you know,
surfing or something like that.
And you write them up.
So that's a really good way to involve the audience
and you're getting them to do some of the work.
It gives you a bit of time to think
and you get a nice big list generated by them.
And remember if they generated it, must be true.
If you say it, it may not be true
but if they generated it must be.
And anything they don't come up with you can add.
You could say there's a couple of other things
I would do when I was there.
I'd really recommend, you know, seeing the turtles
or whatever it is, and you can add those on.
My third of my six ideas is a post-it wall.
So you just give out Post-it notes to the audience
and you say particularly if it's something
that they may not want to admit.
So suppose you were collecting ideas for how the managers
in the company could be better managers,
and people might not want to admit they've said things.
You just say write on the Post-its any ideas
of how the managers could be better.
And people will write things like, you know,
thanking us more or involving us in decisions
and things like that.
And they can all write their Post-its
and then they just stick all the Post-its on the wall.
So you don't know who's written what.
But it's also good, 'cause you can then sort them
into categories as well.
So you know, you can actually organize the information
and get some conclusions.
You could say, look, 20 people here all said
that they didn't think they were thanked enough
and only two people said
that they thought the pay wasn't enough.
I mean that would be really interesting.
So a Post-it wall is a really good idea to pad out
your talk a bit by making it more interactive.
The fourth idea is to get them to present something.
So you could divide them into groups,
and say like you four,
I want you to come up with ways you think
that the company could improve its sales.
And you four, I want you to look at customer care.
And you four, I want you to give a little talk in a minute
just a five minute talk
on new product ideas or whatever it is.
And just give them stuff to do.
So they then need 20 minutes to prepare it,
and then each person's talk's gonna be five minutes
and there's four of those.
So that's another 20.
So 40 minutes is going to be used for this.
But we're not just padding.
This is gonna actually be a lot better
than you just droning through all the answers.
'Cause they get really involved.
They feel that they've had a chance to have a say,
and they'll probably come up with stuff
that you wouldn't have thought of as well.
So getting them to do little mini presentations
can work really well.
And if it's a group of four,
if a couple of them are really nervous about presenting,
it's fine because you only want one of the four,
perhaps two of them to do the presentation
and just a five minute presentation using a sheet
of flip chart paper as a visual aid.
That's what I would do.
I'd give them each a piece of flip chart paper
and a couple of pens, different colors and say,
write some things on there
and present it back to the group in 20 minutes time.
So that was the fourth one.
The fifth of my six ideas.
And can you see how I'm signposting?
So you know where you are in this little tunnel.
My fifth idea is to have a worked example.
So this is where you give them a question to work out,
and then you show them the example up on the screen.
So something like finance would be classic for this.
You know, you could say, have a look
at these three companies and work out
which one's got the best profit margin or whatever.
And then you could show them the example and you write it up
so they get a chance to have a go.
And then you show them the right example, the right answer.
And then my final example, the sixth one is to have a quiz.
And I mentioned earlier people love quizzes.
They get really competitive about it.
And I usually just do a shout out the answer type quiz.
So I just have PowerPoint slides with questions on.
I have the question, the answer, the question, the answer,
and I have the words appearing as they do it.
So I ask the question, they all shout out the answers,
and then I click and it comes up.
By the way, have a clicker.
You've gotta have a clicker.
So the things just come up.
'Cause then you can walk around the room
and you can just click up the next line on your PowerPoint.
So that's the quiz.
You can give it out in writing,
and get them to either on their own or in groups
work out what the answers are.
And then you can ask each question and get the groups
to shout out the answers to you.
And that's another way you can do it.
So working in pairs,
shouting out ideas for the flip chart,
the Post-it wall, getting them to present,
giving them a worked example
which you show them the answer and then a quiz.
Those are all ideas for making your talk interactive,
if it's a bit of a longer talk.

--- Three game-changing tips to ace your presentation ---

-: In this section, I just wanna make three points
about the general style of your presentation.
And the first of my three points
is to use examples to make abstract ideas come to life.
So, if you've got an abstract idea like, I don't know,
"When you're negotiating,
your opening offer should be reasonably extreme."
That's too abstract,
but if you say, "Suppose there's a house for 200,000,
don't offer them 195, offer them 130
'cause that's gonna really shock them,
and then they're gonna come down 10 grand straight away."
That's much better, isn't it?
To have that actual example,
it's much more powerful
than just saying, "Extreme opening offer."
Or if you're saying something like, "You know,
when you calculate net profit and gross profit,
you know, the difference is that with net profit
you don't include fixed costs," or whatever it is.
That's really confusing,
so what you should do is to show them a real example
and say, "Look, here's a company, here are the fixed costs,
here are the variable costs,
and therefore you can see that's the net profit,
that's the gross profit,"
and actually show them a real example.
So, always use examples to make abstract ideas come to life.
That's the first thing I wanted to say about general style.
And you can either have an example
and then the principle that comes from that
or you can start with the principle
and you can say, "And here's an example of it."
You can do it either way round.
The second of my three points about general style is humor.
Should you have jokes or humor in your presentation?
And I think you've gotta have some humor.
I mean, I've joked around a little bit in this talk already,
but humor is difficult
because it's very easy to upset people with jokes,
there's always going to be somebody
who doesn't find a story amusing.
So, for example, I sometimes talk about
when I'm talking about project management,
I talk about estimating
and I talk about how long will it take
for me to drive home?
And we talk about the average
and then I say, "What's the quickest I could do it?
If I'm absolutely charging down the country lanes
with badgers bouncing off my bonnet
how quickly could I get home?"
And I think that's kind of amusing,
but of course there is a risk
there's gonna be somebody who loves badgers
and is really upset by the idea of me running over badgers,
which, of course, I don't do
and I don't want to do, I love badgers.
I think because I say badgers bouncing off my bonnet
I can sort of get away with it.
But I think you've gotta be really careful about humor
'cause there's always gonna be somebody
who doesn't like a joke.
And I definitely wouldn't put in a pre-prepared joke,
you know, "Ah, yes,
now that reminds me of a little story
about three people who went into the pub."
I mean, it's just gonna be awful,
it's gonna fall flat, it's gonna be terrible,
so never have a pre-prepared joke.
But if you can get humor from anywhere during your talk,
you should absolutely take it,
you know, if somebody comes up with a funny answer.
(laughs) I was doing a a project management course
the other day and when we're doing the Gantt chart,
we have the first one has the hours,
how many hours each person's spending
and the second one we put the pounds, the spend.
But what I do to make it interactive,
I named the first one hours
and I said, "If the first one's called hours,
what's the second sheet gonna be called?"
And somebody said, "Theirs,"
(laughs) and everybody just like, it was just hilarious.
And obviously, she hadn't really been concentrating,
it had been a long day to be fair to her.
So, we all had a bit of a laugh
and I said, "No, no, we've got hours,
and the other one is gonna be pounds."
And sometimes funny things happen
and you can all have a laugh and that's great.
And if somebody else makes a joke,
I mean, that's brilliant, you know?
So, humor's fine, but don't pre-prepare humor
because it's gonna fall flat.
And then the third thing,
which I've illustrated in this actually,
is to have a few stories,
tell a story, give a real example
of something that actually happened.
People love examples,
and I'm gonna be telling quite a few more stories later on,
particularly when we get to what could go wrong in a talk?
You know, I've got a few stories
of terrible things that have happened to me
while I'd be doing talks,
and you just know that they're gonna be good, aren't they?
So, if you could put a couple of real-life examples,
real stories, then that's great.
I've got a little game I play, by the way,
where sometimes when I tell a story,
afterwards I say, "By the way,
do you think that story's true
or do you think I made it up?"
And they go, "Oh, oh,"
and you know, half of them go, "I think you made it up,"
and half of them say, "It's true,"
and then they go, "No, it is true."
And I think that's quite a good way
to make them see that the story really is true,
why would I make it?
I'm not clever enough to invent stories,
they are all true.
But that's a fun way to really accentuate the fact
the stories are true.
So, summing up general style then,
use examples or even a story
to make abstract ideas come to life.
Be careful about humor, have a little bit in there,
but be careful about pre-preparing humor,
and include a couple of stories if you can
'cause stories really make your talk come to life.

--- 12 Powerpoint tips for impactful presentations ---

-: Now we need to look at the dreaded PowerPoint.
People talk about death by PowerPoint.
And some people have tried other things like Prezi.
I don't know if you've seen Prezi, which is pretty funky.
I like Prezi.
But really, it's PowerPoint.
It's the only game in town
and it's not gonna go away anytime soon, I don't think.
Even if you like using Prezi,
quite often when you turn up to do a talk at a conference,
PowerPoint is what they are using.
So how can we make PowerPoint good?
Well, I've got 12 tips for PowerPoint.
I'm gonna zoom through them pretty quickly.
Tip number one
is if it's on someone else's laptop, check it.
Just don't trust anybody else.
If they say, "No, no. I've prepared it.
It's all gonna be fine."
Check every single slide.
Make sure the colors are okay, the fonts are okay.
Make sure they haven't changed.
Always check it.
So that's the first tip.
Second tip is spell check.
Why would you not run the spell check?
Some people don't know there's a spell check for PowerPoint.
They think it's only in Word.
But absolutely run the spell check.
There's no excuse for typos on your PowerPoint slides.
And as well as the spell check,
I would get somebody fussy like me
to have a look at your PowerPoint slides
just to check you haven't put anything stupid.
Maybe there's a typo that isn't gonna be detected
by the spell checker.
So, you really wanna make sure everything's right.
Number three, not too much on each slide.
I mentioned earlier on,
seven is usually said to be the maximum
for the number of bullet points.
And each bullet point should be short.
You don't wanna have a big long line.
Probably no more than about four words
for each bullet point.
Shorten it and shorten it.
I found it's one of the main things that I do
when I'm teaching presentation skills.
When somebody puts up their PowerPoint presentation,
the first thing we do is hack it down.
Just shorten the lines,
get rid of half of those bullet points.
So number four, is not too many slides.
You know, if you're gonna take five minutes per slide,
it's a 20-minute talk.
That's only four slides.
And if you are two minutes per slide,
20 minutes talk, that's only 10.
It's such a common fault that people have too many slides.
And then of course the presentation overruns
and the audience are unhappy.
Or you have to rush horrendously fast
through the last few slides.
So don't have too many slides.
Next is the look of your slides.
I would recommend just black on white,
or maybe dark blue on white.
Don't have pink on green, or yellow on green,
or something like that.
And I also would not recommend white on black.
Because when you print it out,
you're gonna have to use a huge amount of ink
and it's gonna be really hard to read.
So just make sure you've got the right colors
on your PowerPoint slides.
Point number six, is have a clicker.
Have one of those little buttons
so you can just go through your slides.
You can even have it in your pocket, that's pretty cool,
and you can just click through, just...
You know, you don't wanna have to keep
going over to the computer and pressing the button.
Although if you are using somebody else's computer
and you don't have a clicker,
a little tip I'd recommend
is you can use the space bar.
'Cause if you're trying to use
the forward and backward arrows,
there's a risk you'll press the wrong arrow.
If you press End, it jumps to the end
and that's really horrible.
So use the space bar to move on.
But better, have a clicker.
And if you are gonna buy a clicker,
spend a little bit more
and have one that has AA or AAA batteries.
You don't wanna have one that has those
little round silver hearing aid batteries,
'cause they run out quite quickly and they're expensive.
And the last thing you want
is a clicker that runs out halfway through your talk.
So go for one that has AA batteries or AAA batteries.
Point number seven, build the slides.
Don't have your PowerPoint pages
just coming up completely full,
but make each word come in.
And don't have them zooming in
with sound effects. (imitates object whirring)
You know, you just want to build the slides
and have the words just coming up, just appearing.
I use the one called Appear.
So do that.
But I would say build the slides most of the time.
But every now and then,
if you've only got, say, three,
you might wanna just bung all three on there
and talk about them.
Especially if the bullet points are not that revealing.
It's okay to have all three on the slide,
on the screen at once.
Because if you always build the slides,
it starts to feel a bit labored,
a bit tedious for the audience.
So build them most of the time.
But every now and then, just bung them all up.
So that's easy.
If you don't know how to build slides,
then get someone to show you.
Number eight of my PowerPoint tips,
is put a full stop after the final line.
This is a little thing I've invented,
but I think it's pretty cool.
So if you've got your slides being built
and the lines are coming up,
you don't know if there's one more line that's gonna appear.
And it's really horrible if you say, "And my final point,"
and there isn't another one
and it just goes to the next slide.
But it's also horrible if you say,
"There we are. I finished."
And you go to the next slide and one more line comes up.
So, the way to know that it's the final line
is to put a full stop just after the final bullet line.
'Cause then you know it's the final one.
Point number nine of my PowerPoint tips,
is photos.
Get those photos included.
Your whole thing comes to life if you've got a picture.
And in fact, I've seen people do PowerPoint talks
where there were no bullets, it was only pictures,
and they just talk around each picture.
That's pretty cool as well.
But make sure you've got pictures,
not distracting ones, you know,
but make sure you've got some pictures in your talk,
otherwise it's horribly dry.
Point number 10 of my 12, so only three left,
is diagrams.
Diagrams are great as well.
Much better than a list if you can make it into a diagram.
So I saw a guy do a talk about scuba diving.
And what he did...
He actually didn't have PowerPoint,
he was just drawing it.
He drew a little stick man with a head and a body.
And then he said, "The first bit of apparatus
is the air canisters."
And he drew these two cylinders.
And then he said, "There's your mask,"
and he drew the mask.
"And then there's the flippers," and he drew the...
And he explained each bit of equipment
and he was drawing it on.
And it was so much better than just having a list.
So if you could have some sort of a diagram,
it's much better than a list.
So every now and then,
if you've got too many lists, just think to yourself,
"How can I make that list into a diagram?"
Idea number 11 out of 12, is one that I mentioned earlier,
which is to use the space bar
if you're using somebody else's laptop.
I think that is a good tip.
It probably deserves to be on the list in its own right.
And finally, number 12,
a really clever little tip that most people don't know,
is that you can jump to any page within your presentation
by just putting in the number.
So if you want to go to page 11,
just type in 11, Enter,
and it will go straight to that page.
So if you do actually accidentally press End,
instead of using the space bar,
and you want to go back to wherever you were,
suppose you're on page 7,
you could just press 7, Enter,
and PowerPoint, when it's in Presenter Mode,
it will take you back to page 7.
And that's great when you are answering questions.
'Cause if somebody says,
you know, at the end, they say,
"Can you explain that thing again?"
You can just go 3, Enter and you're back there.
So if you print out all the pages
and have them on the table,
if anybody wants to go back to a particular page,
you can see the number and you can just put the number,
press Enter, and you're there.
So that's my final PowerPoint tip.
So there we are,
12 tips to improve your use of PowerPoint.

--- Dealing with unexpected problems in your presentation ---

-: So what could possibly go wrong in your talk?
Well, what I want to say first off is
you will be fine.
There are so many things that can go wrong,
but actually most of them,
most of them you'll look back and laugh later.
I've had some horrendous things happen to me.
And I'm gonna go through those with you in a moment.
And you'll see it's the most horrendous list,
but here I still am.
I've survived. I'm fine.
I can look back and laugh, so they're fine.
So I'm gonna talk to you about some of the funny things.
And then in the video after I'll talk about
some of the more common problems that happen
and what can you do about those.
So first of all, let's have a look
at some of the funny things that have happened to me.
First of all, I've had a nosebleed during a talk.
It was just blood coming out my nose.
And I tried, you know sniffing
and it just, it wouldn't stop.
And it was all running down.
And in the end we had to stop the talk.
And they had me lying on the floor,
and they were all pushing tissues up my nose.
But after about five minutes it stopped
and then I carried on with the talk and it was fine.
But that was pretty bad.
I mean, I can look back and laugh now.
And I'm sure they'll all remember that talk
as the one where the guy had the nose bleed.
It was in Guernsey.
I'd gone across on the airplane.
And I think the pressure must have made me have that,
but you know, it's fine.
The next one is I've been sick.
I've actually thrown up during a talk.
And I did actually have time to run out of the room.
And obviously something I'd eaten at lunchtime
had disagreed with me or something.
And I said, "Look, I'll be back in a minute.
"Sorry everyone."
And I just had time to run halfway down the corridor.
I didn't even get as far as the toilets.
It was like, ugh.
And I came back in and I realized I had...
I went to the loo and cleaned myself up
and I came back in.
And I realized that there was all sort of water
down the front of my tie.
I think where I'd sort of tried to wipe off bits of sick.
And it was a talk to a load of doctors as well.
And they were all looking at me going, "Are you okay?"
And I was probably a bit of a sort of greenish white color.
"Are you okay, Chris?"
I was going, "Yeah, yeah, I'm fine."
And I actually had to run out a second time
and be sick again.
And we ended up calling that talk off.
But again, so what?
You know, I'm fine.
I'm here. I'm still alive.
So you know, why not?
The next one is that somebody fainted.
Somebody just collapsed off their chair onto the ground.
That was a bit of a...
It turned out actually
they'd been drinking a lot the night before
and they had alcohol poisoning.
So that was a bit off-putting.
I've had people run out of talks in tears
because I've mentioned something,
you know, badgers or whatever it is.
And they've been really upset.
And they've burst into tears and run out of the room.
We've also had somebody had a hearing dog,
which was just the cutest ever dog, which lay on the ground.
I've done a few training sessions where people have had dogs
and they are quite distracting.
I also did one where somebody
had a signing person with them next to 'em.
So because somebody in the audience was deaf,
they had someone doing sign language next to me.
So while I'm talking,
next to me there's somebody going like this the whole time.
And I was putting extra words in like tape worm and things,
you know, just to see what the sign was.
So that did put me off a bit, but it was fine.
And you know, it worked.
I did a talk at a pig farm
and the whole room where we were was infested with flies.
And they'd sprayed poison, so most of the flies were dying.
And they were sort of just falling down
and sort of buzzing while they lay on their backs.
And that was really horrible.
In fact, when I got back to my car after the talk,
it was full of flies.
I'd left my sunroof open.
And for some reason all the flies had gone into my car.
And opening the windows didn't help, they didn't come out.
So I thought I'll just drive
and hopefully they'll gradually...
I drove all the way from East Anglia to Manchester
with my windows open.
And the final fly went out of a window
just as I arrived in Manchester.
It was horrible.
Three more things that happened.
I lost my voice completely one time.
And that was bad.
I did the talk.
I brought a microphone,
and I was gonna just talk very quietly into the microphone.
But in the end I just whispered the talk.
And it was actually worked really well
'cause everybody really had to lean in and concentrate.
So losing my voice was okay.
That wasn't a problem.
I could have used the microphone.
There was a rather horrible one
where somebody was working on the roof,
scaffolding was being put up.
And the guy actually fell past the window
and hit the ground.
And an ambulance came and he was taken away and things.
And you know, we just carried on with the training session,
but that was pretty awful.
And the final one, I gotta tell you 'cause it's so funny,
my trousers disintegrated.
I was doing a project management course
for Harrow Council.
And suit trousers are pretty thin anyway.
And I think they were really worn.
And I must have probably just gone past the corner
of the flip chart or something
and I must have just scuffed my trousers.
And anyway, while I was writing on the flip chart,
I could hear all this sort of tittering.
And I said to them, you know, "Are you okay there?
"Is there a question?"
And they said, "Chris, it's your trousers."
And I reached around, I felt it.
And oh my god the whole flap had just sort of come down.
I mean I was wearing pants.
It wasn't the end of the world.
So I just did the rest of the morning
facing towards the audience.
And at lunchtime I went to Marks &amp; Spencer
and bought some more trousers.
But actually I do have a spare pair of trousers
in the back of my car now just in case.
But the point is,
all those things happened to me and I'm fine.
I'm still here.
I live to tell the tale.
I can laugh about them now. It doesn't matter.
So those were some of the crazy things
that have happened to me.
And here I am, I'm still fine.
But you are unlikely to get any of those,
I hope so, for your sake.
But what are the problems that you are likely to get?
And what can you do about those?
Let's have a look at them now.
I think the commonest ones are probably
people who chat.
People in pairs who just sort of mutter and whisper.
And this can be a good thing
'cause it can be that they're saying,
"Oh my God, he's right, I need to do that."
Or they might be saying, "What did he say again?
"I just missed that."
So it could be that they're interested in your talk.
But it could be that they, you know,
are just distracted or you know,
they've suddenly thought of something to do with work
and they want to tell the other person.
And I personally think that,
to start with, you should ignore them.
Just let them do it.
But then you could sort of look at them, catch their eye.
You could then if that doesn't work, you could say,
"Are you okay there?
"Do you wanna ask something?"
I always remember at school when I was talking at the back,
they'd go, "Croft is there something you would like to share
"with the class?"
And I'd be going, "No sir."
But so you could say, "Is there a question you wanna ask?
"Are you okay there?"
'Cause they might just wanna ask something.
But if they carry on doing it, you could say,
"Look, I do need you to concentrate.
"Do you mind?"
And I think, you know, you can really step it up
and say, "Look, if you're gonna talk
"do you want to go outside and have your conversation
"Then come back in?"
'Cause you've got the power.
You are running the course.
So I think people who chat
are a common problem but easily handled.
Another common problem is people who ask tricky questions.
Either questions that you don't know the answer to
or questions that are just deliberately malicious,
really, just deliberately impossible.
And I think with difficult questions it's fine to say,
"I don't know the answer, you've got me there.
"You know, I don't know the answer to that.
"I can find out. I'll let you know later if you like."
Or you can say to the audience,
"That's a good question.
"Does anybody know the answer to that one?"
And somebody probably will.
But if nobody does, you can say,
"Well, I don't know the answer either."
And I think it's fine.
And if you are asked a really horrible question
by somebody in the audience,
the audience will be on your side.
They'll all be saying, "Oh, I'm glad I'm...
"You know, that's a really stupid question."
Or, "I'm glad I don't have to answer that question."
So I think it's absolutely fine to just say,
"Yeah, that's a good question actually.
"And I'm afraid I don't know the answer.
"I haven't got the answer with me for that one,
"but I can find out and let you know."
Another common problem in audience is people falling asleep.
I hate to admit this,
but probably about one talk in five that I do,
somebody falls asleep.
But I sort of think, if you've got an audience of 50 people
and 49 of them are riveted, you're doing fine.
It's not you.
And I think some people just have,
you know, a baby that keeps them awake,
they just, you know are insomniacs
and is it called sleep apnea?
There's a thing which, you know,
some people just can't stay awake.
So don't take it personally if somebody's falling asleep.
And it could be just that they're just
a boring, ignorant person who's not interested in your talk
and has turned up by a mistake or something.
But if everybody else is interested
it means you're doing fine.
So don't worry about the person who's falling asleep.
I have tried going silent
and seeing if they suddenly wake up.
Or even pointing at them
and everybody else is all laughing
and I'm pointing at the person.
But generally I think it's better
just to ignore the person who's falling asleep.
People who come in late are annoying.
And I used to say something to them.
I used to say, "Well, we were all here on time,"
or something like that.
But somebody was late and I gave her a hard time.
And it turned out that her children
had been in some sort of horrible accident
and I felt really bad about it.
So what I've learned now
is not to have a go at people who come in late.
They've probably got a good reason.
They may just be disorganized and rude,
but the chances are they've got a good reason.
So I think the main thing is just ignore them
when they come in late.
One of my pet hate problems is what I call chipper-in-ers.
And these are people who constantly chip in.
They constantly go, "Oh yes, yes.
"We have that in our company, too.
"And I find that it's quite easy to deal with
"'cause I do this or that."
And they're actually keen,
and they're actually supporting you.
But they are hard work.
And it's difficult really to deal with the chipper-in-er.
'Cause all you can do is say,
"Okay, well thanks for that.
"Does anybody else have anything to say?"
But it's hard.
I don't know what to do with chipper-in-ers.
They are a bit of a dread really.
Clearly, you can be a little bit assertive in your talk.
And you could say to them, "Well, you know, thanks for that,
"but does anybody else have any thoughts?"
Or, "Thanks for that, but we need to move on."
Or, "I think that's a little bit too off track.
"I don't think I can answer that now,
"because it's not really part of the talk
"but we could talk about it later."
So the old talk about it later gambit always works.
But the other thing you can do
if there's a real problem like a horrible problem
with the IT or with noise, you know,
maybe builders are drilling through the wall
that sort of thing is to say,
"Shall we have a little tea break while we sort this out?"
Audiences are always happy to have tea breaks.
So if you say,
"Let's just have a five minute comfort break.
"People can nip to the loo, maybe get a cup of tea,
"and I'll sort out the drilling and then we'll restart."
Or, "I'll sort out the IT
"and we'll find out what's going on with this computer.
"We'll start again in five minutes."
Audiences are always delighted by that.
And then you can phone up the IT people
and get help or whatever it is you need.
So if in doubt, have a tea break and nothing can stop you.

--- Sharing notes with your audience: Dos and Don’ts ---

-: So you're probably gonna give out some notes
to the audience.
I strongly recommend that you do
because it's a symbolic gift when you give them notes,
but also they're gonna remember your talk more
if they've got notes.
They may never look at the notes again, but they might do,
and also you can put your phone number
and your email address and things on the notes.
So, you should give them something.
The big question though is do you give the notes out
before your talk, during your talk, or after your talk?
And there are pros and cons of all three of these,
so it's tricky.
I think my least favorite
is to give the notes out before the talk.
Sometimes you have to do this because if it's a conference
there might be a pack that's been sent out or whatever.
But the problem is if you give the notes out before,
they can read ahead and they know what's coming up
and it just takes away all the excitement
and all the suspense from your talk.
But the advantage is that they can write on them.
So if you don't give them notes beforehand,
they're gonna go, "Is this in the notes?"
So if I'm doing a talk and I haven't given the talk,
the notes out before, then I reassure them constantly.
Don't worry, this is in the notes.
But you can give the notes out before
and they can write on them,
and what you can do is you can leave gaps in the notes
so they can fill them in so they can't read ahead.
And I mentioned earlier
on how Brian Tracy did that and he's a god,
so if Brian Tracy does it, it's gotta be fine.
And you can leave them on people's chairs
before they arrive,
so if you've got a lot of people turning up to a talk,
it could be on the chairs with blanks.
And that's my preferred thing.
If I'm forced to give out notes before,
I give them out with blanks.
And then I might give out a finished version
with all the blanks filled in after the talk as well.
I don't tell 'em I'm gonna do that though,
so they have to pay attention
during the talk to fill in all the blanks.
Now, what about giving out the notes during the talk?
This is what I like to do.
If I'm running a training course for say 10 people,
if I've got a U shape of tables so I can get to each person,
I like to give out the notes,
and sometimes I just get 'em to pass them around
or sometimes I go round each person and I give them out.
It's like a symbolic gift.
Every time I give out another page they go, "Thank you."
So it's great.
But the big reason I like to give notes out during,
it isn't really to stop them reading ahead.
It's the fact that I can miss stuff out if I need to.
So if the talk is going a bit slower than I expected
and I'm struggling to finish everything,
I can miss things out,
or if I don't know whether I'm going to need
to do a detailed thing or a highly technical thing,
I can have it as a spare.
I can put it in if necessary or not.
So I don't have to pre-prepare a pack.
I could just have a pile of stuff and give out the bits
I want to give out.
So I like the flexibility of giving out notes during,
and you need to decide how you want to do this,
but that's an option you've got.
It does take a little bit longer to give notes out,
and if you've got a big audience
then you do need to factor in the time.
And in fact, if you've got 30 people
it's gonna take too long to stop
and go out and just give notes out to everybody.
It's gonna be just too hard to do.
The other advantage, though, of having notes to give out
as you go along, it does act as a cue
because I've got my notes that I look at,
and so I'm kind of using them as I do my talk.
So I give out each page and then I talk
about it or perhaps I talk about it and then give it out.
So it does act as a cue to tell me what to say next.
Now, what about if I'm gonna give the notes out after?
That's the third choice you've got.
The snag with giving the notes out after
is they don't know if it's gonna be in the notes,
so you do need to reassure them.
The other snag is they never read them.
If you give out a pack afterwards,
a couple of really conscientious people might read them,
but most people won't read them.
So, you know, if you want 'em to look at the notes,
you need to give them out before or during.
But the advantage of giving them out after
is they don't know what's coming up.
And of course if it's a pack
that you're going to give out after,
you are already committed
to covering everything that's in the notes.
But you can always get around that by saying,
"I've given out a pack for you
which has got a whole load
of additional reading as well as just my talk."
And then that's an excuse to not cover everything
'cause you haven't got time.
So that's the question.
Do you want to give notes out before, during, or after?
My preference is during if I can,
if it's not a big audience.
Failing that I think my next preference
would be before with blanks.
My third choice would be after.
And my worst case is to give them out before with no blanks
so they can read everything.
That really is bad.
So there we are, things to think about with notes.

--- The art of finishing presentations on time ---

-: So finally, when you're giving a talk,
it's absolutely vital to end on time, never overrun.
People hate it if you overrun,
even by five minutes, they'll be climbing the walls.
I dunno why, but it's a big thing.
So how can you end on time?
Well, the first thing is to have a buffer
that you can miss out at the end.
A friend of mine always has body language,
whatever training course he does, he always has a section
on body language that he misses out if necessary.
And he nearly always misses it out.
But if for some reason it's a very quiet audience
and he's just going quicker than normal,
he's got his section on body language
he can put in if he has to.
But you can also have a bit of an area
that you can speed up rather than miss out.
So maybe you are planning
to have a fairly interactive section with the audience.
Perhaps they're going to discuss things in groups
and you can just miss that out.
So you could still cover it,
you could still talk about the main points,
but you can just speed through it.
Or maybe there's a quiz
and you can just tell 'em the answers
rather than asking them the answers, that sort of thing.
So having a buffer.
And the buffer has to be fairly near the end, of course,
'cause you won't know you're in time trouble
until you get near the end.
So somewhere in the last quarter,
you need to have something
that you can either speed up or miss out.
The second idea is to put timings on your slides
so that you can check that you are on schedule.
It doesn't have to be very scientific,
it's just if you've got 10 slides
and it's a 20 minute talk, just put two minutes on each.
Just put 12, 14, 16, 18 minutes or whatever, past 12.
Put the actual time.
So you've got your watch,
probably best to put your watch on the table, actually,
so you can see it.
But there may be a clock at the back of the room
and that would be better.
So you could just compare your timings with the watch.
And I sometimes put the timings
just in very faint light gray in the corner
where only I can notice them.
But sometimes I put them in in big red writing
and I say to the audience,
"I'm gonna stick to the time,
and you can check on me
because the timings will actually be on the slides."
Why not?
You know, reassure the audience that you are on it.
So putting the timings on the slides is an option.
And then my third point I really wanna make
is ending on time is signpost that the end is coming.
You don't wanna fall off a cliff suddenly
at the end of your talk.
So ideally, about three points before the end, you wanna say
"I've got three more points and then we're finished."
And then two more, and then one more.
And so you say, "And this is my final point,
and then I've finished my talk.
We've got time for a few questions, but that's all.
So my final point is," da da da da da.
And then you say, "So there you have it.
That's presentation skills."
So make sure you end on time
and signpost that the ending is coming up.

--- Conclusion ---

-: And that's it for my presentations course.
I really hoped you've picked up some useful practical tips
and that it makes your presentations less stressful
and more effective,
better at getting your message across to your audience.
'Cause remember, that's what we are trying to do
is get that message across.
Now, ideally, you would do a talk soon, try it,
put it into practice.
You'll find it'll work really well.
And if you don't have a talk scheduled, you probably do,
'cause that's why you're doing this course.
But if you don't have one scheduled
why not volunteer to do a talk?
Why not go to your boss and say,
"Is there a talk I can do for you?"
And put into practice as soon as you can.
Because the great thing is you now own this course.
So you can come back to it as often as you like.
So every time you've got a presentation
in the coming years, you can come back
and you can just watch it again.
So it's great to have.
You could even look at it after you've done a presentation
and just to see the things that you've forgot
that you need to remember for next time.
So keep coming back to this course as often as you need to.
And I really hope
that it makes you more successful in life generally
because presentations is an important skill.
Now, if you've got any questions
there's a discussion forum where you can post things
and I go on there and I put answers and things.
You can message me directly.
But it's much better to use the forum
because then everybody can see the discussions
that are going on and it's shared with the community.
So please do use the discussion forum.
It's a bit of fun.
So that's good.
Something else would help me hugely.
If you wouldn't mind leaving me a review.
I would love it if you could leave a review and
some stars or whatever.
It really helps me a lot.
'Cause when people are deciding which course to use,
which one to buy, they look at the number of reviews.
So if you could leave just a really short review
that would be brilliant.
Please, please do that.
And finally, because I'm eternally grateful to people
who buy my courses, I've got a little voucher system going.
So there should be a code coming up on the screen here
which you can use to get my other courses cheaper.
So if you're interested in negotiating, for example,
which will save you thousands or if you're interested
in selling or leadership or one of my most
popular courses is called "How To Live An Amazing Life".
Why would you not want to know that?
Have a look at that and
you can use the voucher to get that
at a massively reduced price.
So I hope to see you again on one of those other courses.
So good luck and bye for now.

--- A Bonus Freebie ---

-: I've got one other thing for you which is free
which I think you might like, which is my tip of the month.
I send out an email tip free
to everyone who's been on my courses
if they want to have it and so please do sign up for that.
The email address will be coming up here
but it's basically free-management-tips.co.uk with hyphens.
So yeah, put your email address in there
and you will get a free email from me
every month forever and it will never repeat.
You can always unsubscribe if they don't make you happy
but I know you'll like it.
People very rarely unsubscribe.
I do put quite a lot of effort into writing them
because they go to 20,000 people, so I do put an effort in.
So I really hope you like my tip of the month.
Sign up for it now.
Bye for now.

--- How To Get Your Certificate ---

-: You can email in
with any questions you have about the course,
but by far the commonest question I get is,
"Why can't I get my certificate?"
So the good news is, you do get a certificate
with this course, a Certificate of Completion,
which is really useful.
You can show it to your boss
or when you go for a job interview, you've got that.
It's got your name on it, looks great.
So that's good news, but sometimes,
for some reason it won't give you your certificate.
So the first thing to do is to just make sure
you have completed 100% of the course.
You should be able to see your percentage complete
on the screen somewhere.
But if it says 99% complete and you are thinking,
"But I've watched all the videos,"
there's obviously something you haven't completed.
So it could be that you just haven't downloaded
a particular downloadable file.
It could be that there's a quiz
that you haven't finished or you didn't get correct.
But it could also be that there's a video
that you just watched all the way up
to the last few seconds,
you didn't quite finish the video.
So if you search, you should find,
it should show you what the remaining thing
is that you haven't done.
But sometimes there's just a glitch,
and you've watched a video,
but it doesn't think you've watched it
or something like that.
So if it is just a glitch,
the answer is to email support@udemy.com
and just say to them,
"I've watched the course, I can't get my certificate,"
and they will then send it to you.
Okay, so last resort, email support@udemy.com
and you will get the certificate
that you quite rightly deserve.

--- 2025 Update: Make your videos natural ---

-: Hi, and well done for finishing my course.
Now, one of the things
I like about Udemy courses
is that if I think of something else,
which I quite often do after I've made a course,
I can add it on the end as a bonus video,
and I've got a bonus video for you here
on how to make your videos natural.
So I hope you find it useful.
So if you are making a video for, let's say,
a blog post or maybe for YouTube,
I think the most important thing,
and probably the most difficult thing,
is to make your filming natural,
because talking to a camera isn't a normal thing to do.
It's not like talking to a bunch of people.
You don't get any feedback from it,
and it takes a bit of planning and a bit of practice.
And these days, it can't be avoided.
You have to make videos for your website,
videos to communicate with your team
or your investors or your customers,
videos for social media, et cetera.
And your videos do need to be natural
or you'll just come over all wrong.
So here are my top 10 tips.
Number one is practice.
It's just something you've never done before.
It feels like it should be easy, but it's not.
Second is to know how to edit.
It's really easy if you use iMovie.
It really is, and there's other software
you can learn as well, but I use iMovie and it's great.
So if you're not bothered about mistakes
when you're filming, it's just much easier to be yourself.
And if you understand the process of fixing them
and how to make the process easy, for example,
staying in the same place to make joining easier,
then editing really helps your video making.
My next tip is to do two takes,
even though the first one was great
because the second one will probably be even better.
And also, there's no pressure on the second take
because you've already got a good one in the bag.
By the way, it'll be better
because you've got the script in your head,
so it will flow more naturally.
Whether you are reading from a teleprompter
or whether you are just chatting,
you'll have it in your head.
My fourth tip is don't try
to remember all of your talk
because then your brain
is clogged up with what's coming in the future.
So use notes as I'm gonna describe next.
My next tip is don't try
to peek at notes slightly out of shot.
If I do that, you can see me looking.
The camera will see your eyes move,
but instead, stop and look at your notes,
and then, while the camera's still running,
restart talking while standing in the same place.
And then you can cut out that joining bit later.
If it's just a short video,
don't get an auto cue and read from a script.
It's really hard to do this naturally,
and it's loads of work to write and perfect a script.
It's worth doing that for professional videos
that you will sell,
but not for those chatty, friendly type of videos.
Number seven is to have a little Post-it note
with an arrow, pointing to the camera lens on your phone,
so that you always look at exactly the right place.
Did I mention that your phone
will be good enough quality, because it will.
In fact, I'm filming this on a phone now.
Tip number eight is to check that everything's okay
by filming 10 seconds
and playing it back before you film the rest.
Then, when you are filming, you know it's gonna be fine.
You're checking that the sound is working,
the lighting's okay, your hair isn't adrift,
nothing's poking out of your nose,
and whether you're standing in the right position,
you're standing in shot,
you're not blocking the whiteboard
or something growing out of the top of your head
behind you, et cetera.
It's terrible if you film a whole course
and then you find that the sound wasn't working afterwards.
So do a little check before you start.
Tip number nine is, don't worry how you look.
Nobody cares as long as you don't look distractingly odd.
Tip number 10 is to use a whiteboard
and do a bit of writing.
It gives you something to do with your hands
and it positions you as an expert
and it makes you more natural.
You can even use it as a cue
for what to say next if you have one word
for each thing or some initials already written up there
as a reminder for each part of your talk.
And my final tip is to be a bit more zoomed out
than you need to be so that you can crop it afterwards,
because then, if you're not standing
in quite the right place,
you can fix that when you do the cropping.
And then, you'll quickly discover
it's best to crop the whole video
before you cut it up and edit out the mistakes
and the breaks, so the cropping is the same
all the way through.
So there are some tips about making videos.
I hope they're useful, and I'll see you on my next course.
Bye for now.
