

=== Welcome & Course Overview ===


--- Introduction: Revolutionizing QA with Generative AI ---

Hello and welcome to this exciting course of generative AI for QA.
Revolutionised software testing with AI.
I am Prateek Sethi as a solution architect with over a decade of experience in quality engineering automation
and now deeply involved in application of generative AI in software testing.
If you are a manual tester, curious about automation or an sdat who wants to level up, or a QA leader
seeking to future proof your testing strategy, then I believe you are in the right place.
So let's quickly understand what we are going to cover in this course.
So we will basically first understand the introduction of generative AI because we are going to use
generative AI.
So it's very important as a QA professional to understand like and having a solid, you know, solid
understanding of generative AI.
So we will first understand the generative AI versus traditional AI, how it is different from traditional
AI.
You will learn why generative AI is not just about prediction, it's about creation.
We'll discuss more in the polls.
Next, we will understand the core idea behind generative AI.
We will explain large language model transformers and prompt prompt engineering.
But in the way tester can relate to.
So I have keep this course like you know very tester friendly, QA community friendly so that you know
whatever QA should know for this exciting technology.
You know, I have explained in try to explain this in this course.
So how next we'll learn how AI works in QA.
Like we will understand how AI works in QA domain.
Then comes the next section where we will apply our understanding of AI in the functional testing of
AI.
We will be, you know, creating the test plan creation using AI.
We will learn how to write a smart prompt that basically convert the business requirement into the structured
test plan.
And and believe me, in seconds.
And then we'll understand how to create the test cases, test strategy, shift left testing all these,
you know, test strategy, strategy document tailored to a specific project or specific business requirement.
Then we will learn the test data generation.
We will show how JNI can create valid, realistic test data for specific test cases for your project.
You know that used to take days or weeks, but now they just take few minutes.
In the next section we will learn AI powered automation framework generation.
So this is most important you know core of this framework we will learn how to generate the framework
because based on my experience I know that you know what usually stops teams from automating.
It's a time complexity and skill gap.
So we will solve that.
In the module you will learn how to use AI to generate real world automation framework.
End to end we will be building two types of framework one with playwright py test framework.
You know using Python which is reusable or falling, all industry best practices.
And another one is selenium testing framework, you know, using Java or Java backgrounds.
So it's your choice.
You can build both or you can you pick and choose any one among these.
Right?
In the next section we will be like migrating to two AI agents.
You know, like recently we have a playwright MCP.
And you know, so the core concept we will understand what our MCP, how they work.
You know, we will explore AI agent with multi context prompting a cutting edge.
Uh it's like it's multi context protocol.
Sorry.
Right.
A cutting edge uh concept where you create AI powered agent that can derive browser, analyze Dom and
even make dynamic decision during test run.
This is not basic scripting.
You know, we will generate a test script in a plain natural language.
And, you know, will will try to see how, you know, MCP or LM tool can integrate, you know, interact
with each other and can run our browser automation and understand our, you know, plain English and
convert them into a real actionable items.
Then, uh, bonus part will be that, you know, side by side, we will be learning the prompt engineering
from QA.
The Art of writing.
Good prompt a crucial skill when working with AI tools like ChatGPT, Gemini or Claude.
You will learn prompt pattern, iteration, role based instruction, and how to get deterministic testable
output output from JNI.
So the output you will walk away with generating the test plan.
Test strategy test cases.
Test data instantly using JNI.
You will have a robust end to end automation framework using Python and Java with your AI assistant.
You will be mastering the prompt engineering for your quality outcome.
Understand and experiment with agent based testing using JNI tool, and you will shift from writing
script to designing intelligent test system.
So I am excited to you know, you have you know, you have joined this course and I and I believe that,
you know, with all this practical knowledge, you know, you will basically design for tester by tester
who has walked the path.
So if you are ready to, you know, it will definitely save your time, accelerate your testing career
and you will be AI ready in the world of quality engineering.
Then let's see you in the next lecture.
Thank you so much.


=== Introduction to Generative AI ===


--- GenAI vs Traditional AI ---

This tutorial we will learn like what is generative AI, right?
Before going into understand, you know, different use cases of you know how we can leverage generative
AI in different use cases.
It is very important for us to understand like what is generative.
So generative AI is a category of an artificial intelligence that can create new and or original content.
Whether it could be a text, it could be a image code, you know, etcetera, multiple things.
Right.
So it's a category of an AI that can create a new that is a major, important thing, new it always
create a new original content.
Right.
So it is different from the traditional AI, right?
You know, traditional machine learning models, you know, which are like focus on reading and understanding
the existing data, because that those models are also trained on the existing data and basically predict
the next outcome.
But here, Jenny basically uses what it has learned to create something new and entirely, completely
new thing.
Right?
So that is the core difference between, you know, generative AI and traditional I right?
So for example in ChatGPT or any tool, any generative AI tool like if I write like write an essay on
Python programming language.
Right.
So it has learned the Python programming language by learning the data on different coding, you know,
different texts, different type of code or syntax document articles on the internet.
So it has learned a lot of things related to Python.
This topic.
Right.
Now if I say, you know, any abstract thing, like to create an essay on Python programming language
so it knows that, okay, Python programming language and essay and generate like an entire text for
it.
Right.
So that is the advantage of, you know, generative AI.
Or maybe we can't say like advantage, but that's a separate use case.
That is how generative AI is different from traditional AI.
Okay.
So uh, that's that is what we, uh, want to distribute, because that is a very important interview
question.
Um, because sometime, you know, in interview, you know, um, interview may ask like, okay, tell
me the difference between generative AI and traditional layer so you can explain now.
Okay.
Thank you so much.

--- Core Idea Behind Generative AI ---

Welcome back!
In this tutorial we will learn like the idea, the core idea behind the generative AI.
So what generative AI does like generative AI basically learns the pattern and structure in data set.
So whatever uh, training data that model basically trained on.
So it basically learns the pattern and structure and it can generate entirely new data that fit within
those learned pattern.
For example, any two, any specific, uh, generative AI, you know, which is specific for any image.
So it has trained on different, different images.
And if you ask to generate an egg, for example, if you ask that model to generate an image of an apple.
So basically while training, you know, so it, it might train on different images of an apple that
you know, what is the structure of the apple?
It shape feature and texture.
And now when you ask to create a new image of an apple.
So based on that learning, it knows the pattern, the structure and you know, shape and feature based
on that, based on your prompt, it will generate an entirely a new image.
So it's like a, you know, a kind of a painter who has learned different type of painting, who has
who has paint, different type of, you know, paintings and landscape and different types of painting.
Now, you know, if he can he, you know, that painter, he or she can generate an entirely new painting,
you know, entirely new creative painting.
So that is an, you know, you can try you can understand what is generative.
Generative AI has been trained on different data set different, you know, based on that it has learned
a different pattern and structure.
And based on that it can generate entirely new content.
Right.
So next comes is like you know what is the generative AI versus traditional AI.
So we have already understand the difference between them.
But you know, in more detail like uh, traditional AI basically focus on analyzing existing data to
identify pattern, make prediction.
Basically, traditional AI wants to make the prediction and classify the information right.
It excels at, you know, tasks like image recognition, Tokenization fraud detection recommendation
system based on historical data.
So that is more that is most important.
Additional I was basically made on the historical data.
And you know, based on the historical data, it can predict the next outcome.
Basically, you know, it can recognize the image, detect the fraud in the transactions, and, you
know, provide a recommendation like in a in OTT platform different.
We have our recommendations recommendation system, right based on our viewing preferences and all basically
that that platform recommended us, uh, based on a historical data.
Right.
That is kind of a predictive modeling we have in traditional AI like output is typically a prediction
or classification, right?
Or decision based on the input, based on the historical data.
That is what traditional AI used for.
But we are generative.
AI is different.
Basically, it learns the underlying structure pattern within data to generate new and original content.
That's why it's called generative because it generates new or original content, utilizes deep learning
model like, you know, that is the architecture part of generative AI.
Like it.
Utilize a deep learning model like generative adversarial network like Gans or variational Autoencoders,
or transformer architecture like ChatGPT.
You know, that is based on transformer architecture.
So utilize these architecture.
You know, it's a kind of a neural networks which had multiple nodes, and each node has some weightage
weights right associated with it.
And you know, it learns and understand and based on that it predict or basically generate a new content.
So it is capable of producing text, images and, you know, audio, video and even code.
So that is what a high level difference between generative AI and traditional AI.
And if you explain these point clearly in your interview, you know, you will be basically, uh, other
the person your interviewer may will be like very impressed.
Okay.
You know, the core difference between traditional AI and generative AI.
All right.
Thank you.


=== Applying Generative AI in Enterprise QA Workflows ===


--- How GenAI Works ---

Welcome back.
In this lecture we will understand like how generative AI works.
So there are different stages of generative AI.
So first is like training data where the model is trained on large data set that could be that include
millions of text images, you know code depending upon the model type.
Right.
Like, you know, different different models and they have different data set that they are trained
on.
So so the first stage is like, you know, you can explain like like that.
The first stage goes, you know, the training stage where training data a model is trained on large
data set.
Then comes the learning algorithm learning part where basically, you know, we as we have seen in the
last video, like, you know, there are, uh, different, uh, neural networks and, you know, uh,
learning during the learning stage, we use different architecture, like transformer based architecture,
where like ChatGPT type models are basically based on, you know, where.
And there are some Gan based model as well, you know, so like a neural network, which often in form
of Transformers or Gan or basically they analyze and learn pattern from the data.
So in learning stage they analyze and learn pattern from the data.
Training data.
Next third stage is generation process like in generation process like based on its learning a learned
knowledge, it predicts to the next element in the sequence and produce an output accordingly.
So that is what a difference in generative AI model like generative AI model, when you pass a prompt,
right?
And it knows that it has an entire context and it uses it, it uses entire context window to generate
and to predict the next okay, what is what could be the next output?
You know, the which is related to the context which a user asks a question.
Right.
So that is the you know, that's why it has a multiple iterative process and basically predict, okay,
what could be the next output, what could be the best next word in the in the sequence of the sentence.
Right.
So that that's why that's how it generate, you know, the content and produce an output accordingly.
So next stage is the feedback loop.
So in feedback loop basically you know it receives the feedback and improve.
So for example if you uh if you want uh you have a general purpose model right.
Like ChatGPT or Gemini.
Now you want to make them, you know, fine tuned to your domain.
For example, you are in e-commerce domain and you are building a chatbot for e-commerce domain.
So you want to basically train that model with your company data or, you know, with your customer
patterns, you know, ordering system and all that, right?
So that, you know, that chatbot is relevant and is context aware about your use case and your business
use case.
So that that is a fine tuning.
And reinforcement learning is also like, you know, based on that, you, you, you ask the question
and you get the response.
And you, you know, you give the feedback, okay, whether your response is correct or not.
So based on that human feedback, it improves with the time and learns.
Okay, this is the this is this time.
This is more accurate response and this is the less accurate response.
So based on that it basically improve with the time and with that feedback loop it generate a better
response.
So that is what in short are you know how generative AI works.
So in summary first stage is training data.
Then comes a learning algorithm and learning part where basically using the neural network like Gan
or transformer based architecture, it analyze and understand the pattern of the underlying test data.
Then third the generation part, the generation process where generate the output and fourth is the
feedback loop.
Basically using some, you know, fine tuning or reinforcement learning with human feedback.
You know, this type of technique, it improves its, uh, responses.
Thank you so much.


=== Generate Playwright - Pytest (Web / API )  Based Automation Framework Using AI ===


--- Test Plan Creation for Business Requirement Using AI ---

Hello friend!
In this tutorial we will learn like how to come up with the test plan.
As you know, you have a test plan and sorry, you have a business requirement document and you need
to generate the test plan.
So how you can generate using AI, how you can, you know, create an efficient and fast test plan.
You know.
So, you know, this is like I'm sharing one requirement document a business requirement document.
You know, generally typically the product manager or business analyst share, you know, for a new
requirement in a product.
So I am taking an example of, you know, one, uh, e-commerce platform in fashion retail domain,
which is fashion, right, offering seamless and personalized shopping experience to customers.
So it's like an e-commerce platform like Amazon, Flipkart, like that, you know, just an imaginary,
uh, e-commerce platform, right?
And the objective it has mentioned, like, you know, the objective of fashion is to build a scalable,
intuitive and feature rich e-commerce platform tailored for fashion industry business to call B2C and
B2B needs and all.
So this type of typical requirement we receive and the scope is mentioned.
You know, the scope is you need to perform end to end business requirement for QE fashion, including
user role, core module, business process integration, component compliance needs.
Then it has a target audience like fashion conscious, individual, consumer, boutique store, fashion
brand, influencer and affiliate marketers.
And then it has a, you know, mentioned the different requirement, functional requirement like user
management, like user registration, user profile management, role based access control, admin seller,
customer support team.
Then it has a product catalog catalog management.
So this is a typically you know the business requirement document we have like uh for this this example
like of of you know e-commerce platform fashion retail.
You know the having the product catalog management.
So different different modules written like user management module, product catalog management module.
Then we have a search and navigation module where user can search the product, you know, add filters
related to brand, price, size, color.
And then we have a product detail page where, you know, user can have a high quality images and zoom
feature, detail description, size chart, customer reviews, all of these.
Then check out, you know once user added selected the product, it added to the cart.
You know added quantity remove item from the cart.
Management.
Multi address delivery.
Gift wrapping option.
Coupon application.
You know all those things it has mentioned.
And payment integration.
Multiple payment methods like credit, debit, UPI, net banking, wallet you know and secure payment
gateway integrations.
All the compliance order confirmation and receipt generation order management then seller.
So many modules entire you know for e-commerce application like customer support analytics reports all
this and it has a non-functional requirement as well.
They want to us to perform a, you know, non-functional testing as well.
Performance scalability testing, accessibility testing, security, responsiveness integration with
different, you know, payment gateways and API, social media, influencer marketing tools.
So all this is what are basically high level requirement document document, you know, that you have
received.
So in general case you know what happen like this requirement document comes and you know then um business
analyst or product manager basically convert them into user stories.
And then you got those user story.
So uh, once you have this business requirement document and you know, uh, from, uh, your team,
your test lead basically comes up with the, you know, understand, basically discuss with the entire
team and comes up with a test plan.
So in the in the test plan, typically what we have, we have like say like to test this entire, uh,
feature, you know, all these feature how many days we need to, uh, QA needs to perform the testing
of all these features.
Right.
How many resources are required, how many test cases might be required.
And, you know, what are the different infrastructure that requirement.
And also like what are the risks involved in testing.
So all these, you know, things basically elite comes and you prepare the document called Test plan.
So before the I write, you know, these type of things, you know, you go through the entire document,
discuss with the different stakeholders and come up with a test plan.
So generally it takes, you know, like many days, three, four days it might take.
Right.
And then, you know, all those things happen.
But nowadays with the with the like, you know, with AI in place, we can generate this test plan like
in, in, in, in few minutes or basically after review and update, you know, it can be generated
in 1 or 2 hours, right.
So that is what uh we'll see.
So we have this requirement.
So I will basically copy this and entire requirement and go to the tools like ChatGPT or you know,
or Google Gemini.
You can go and say that uh, assume.
Yourself as an expert.
Q e s lead.
So I am giving a role to ChatGPT that you assume as an expert Q test lead.
So below are my requirement.
So I copy entire requirement here.
So everything you know I have copied here right below is my.
Requirements.
So right.
So I will explain like okay I have because if you give this to I to I will basically okay.
Assume that okay based on its learning it understand it okay.
For this type of testing suppose you have five tester so that on that assumption it will generate a
test run.
But it's better if you give them how many testers you have.
Like for example, you know that you have uh, I have uh, four testers.
Us.
Right.
And I have say I have 30 days to test this requirement.
So this will you know that based on the high level plan, you know that these are how days are allocated
by your stakeholder and your leadership.
So if this is not sufficient, then I will suggest you that okay you can ask you can raise the risk,
uh, to your stakeholder that these days are not sufficient.
Right.
And you can mention that, you know, uh, so there could be multiple environment, I assume.
So it's better if you basically give, uh, the correct, uh, environment.
So, so here that the prompting skills are very important.
Like if you write a correct prompt.
So same thing if for different person.
Right.
Will get a four different response for different prompts.
And only like 1 or 2 might get a correct response based on you know what how what prompt they have written.
So prompt prompt in skill is very important nowadays.
Like okay so you can mention that testing should be.
Performed on windows.
And Mac browser.
Use our convention like Chrome and Safari.
So like this you can mention and then you have list down the all the requirement.
And let's enter it so that you know it will analyze the entire requirement.
And based on the different test plan it has already gone through in the internet, you know, and learn
on that.
Based on that, it will generate and provide whatever data you have shared, like, you know, number
of resources in your team and how many days you have for testing.
And, you know, what are the different environments and and some basic infrastructure details.
And, you know, uh, the browsers involved so it can generate the test, plan it come up with the test
plan.
So here is a detailed 30 day test plan tailored for QE fashion project.
So it has scanned the entire requirement like team size of four test platform these browser these timeline
this scope functional and non-functional testing.
So it has understood we along with functional we have non-functional requirement as well for comprehensive
e-commerce platform.
So this is what the overview of the test plan it has generated like project title duration team right
lead.
And for tester like this and test schedule, it has generated the test entire test schedule.
Break down the entire you know the requirement into different test schedule breakdown.
Like what.
How many days.
So based it understand based on the different test plan it has you know read in past right from the
internet so it understand okay.
For this type of requirement take generally 1 to 3 days for test planning and setup right.
Understanding the business requirement document.
Create requirement traceability matrix test strategy and risk assessment.
Test environment setup.
Accessing provisioning.
Browser and OS metrics finalization, then it is telling the test design.
So generally take 4 to 8 days.
So it is just giving an estimate.
So you can copy this and paste it in a word document and edit these days based on your, uh, you know,
the team size and all those things.
The test is designed for all module review and peer feedback.
See it how well it has structured this document then smoke and functional testing cycle one smoke test
module wise functional testing user management product catalog.
Then you know it's saying all the modules it has written for performing the smoke and functional testing.
Then integration and regression testing, regression testing validated third party integrations, payment
gateway, logistic API, email CRM, bug verification, then cross-browser and compatibility testing.
You know, different platform, different browsers, non-functional testing performance baseline on
you know using some tool.
It is referring then accessibility testing security check.
So everything it has given like you know then test type and ownership like for example smoke testing,
functional testing, you know, different and then test artifacts to deliver the strategic plan requirement,
test scenario, test cases.
You know, based on the tool, you can mention whether it's an Excel, JIRA or or test rail tools suggested.
It's also suggesting the tool like for example, test management is suggesting JIRA plus the fire test
rail, bug tracking, Jira cross browser, lambda test or browser stack.
You know you can use performance like Chrome Lighthouse, you can use Jmeter as well, or or Locust
tool as well.
You know and you know like this.
You can see it has generated the entire plan.
And you can copy this and paste it and present it.
You know, you can edit something and then you can present it.
So see how much time it takes to generate this test plan.
And generally it took like, you know, 1 or 2 days, but now it has took two three minutes and we have
the entire plan ready for us.
So that is the, you know, advantage of using AI and how we can generate the test plan from the business
requirement document.
Thank you so much.


=== Generate Selenium- TestNG Based Automation Framework Using AI ===


--- Test Cases Creation for Business Requirement Using AI ---

All right.
In this tutorial we will be creating the test cases like.
Now we have created the test plan from the business requirement document.
Now it's time to create the test cases as a tester.
As a test engineer we have we have to create once we have the test plan ready and you know we have the
requirement finalized, then as a test engineer we have to prepare the test cases.
So for that what we do like in the in the same that, you know we can enter like okay now let's prepare
test cases.
So why I'm writing like this.
Because this uh basically any tool or ChatGPT or whatever you are using like Google Gemini.
Right?
It has already has a context.
It has a context of requirement, test plans, everything.
You know, I'm just interacting with as I am interacting with an, you know, real person.
So now let's prepare test cases for uh, say uh, say I want to create test cases for user management
and product catalog management.
Uh module or these two module I want to create test cases for example like for user management and product
catalog management.
Right.
So and that's right.
Like you know functional right.
Uh yeah.
Let's first go with the functional test cases only for these two modules.
Right.
And let's see how what output it gives center.
So here is a structured set of functional test cases user management and product catalog management.
Each test case includes saying you know test case ID description precondition test test test data expected
result.
So wow, it is generating, you know, the test steps for each for user management tool expected result
data generating.
You know where it gets expected result.
So it is it has got this reference from, you know, the context it has from the business requirement
document and the test plan.
So it has generated around eight test cases in the user management module and around, you know, uh,
product catalog management.
It has generated nine test cases.
Right.
So probably, you know, you might need to, uh, you know, export it.
Copy table.
See, it's giving and you can paste it in some Excel and, you know, then you can export it in your
whatever, uh, test management tool like JIRA or test you are using.
You can export, uh, those test cases, but you know, and first review it like the manual intervention
is very required is, you know, is required here because you cannot rely 100% on AI output even though
AI is giving, you know, most of the work done, like 70, 80% work is already done.
But but first before committing it and before like finalizing it, uh, it's it's like always advisable
to review it like it's a must to, you know, a manual intervention is always required.
Right.
So see, we have our test cases ready for these two, uh, module as well.
And functional test cases are ready.
We can copy it and paste it.
You know, all the test cases, exhaustive test cases are generated now saying we would like to test
cases exported to Excel template.
So it will generate an Excel template for, you know, for easy upload into the test management tool.
So it can also generate that.
And you can copy from here and paste it in Excel.
Right now let's see I want to create now let's create non functional test cases because we have non-functional
requirement as well right.
So now let's create non-functional test cases for uh user management and product catalog management.
Right.
So let me press enter.
So it will generate the non-functional test cases as well.
Right.
So it's a matter of seconds.
You have a functional test cases and non-functional test cases as well for your module like see generating
verify the login response time under load.
So login API working simulate 100 concurrent user using Jmeter.
So it assumes that you are using Jmeter.
So suppose you are using some different tool.
You can update it here, but the core concept will remain same right.
It has mentioned the average response.
Suppose average response or XLA is not mentioned you know in your function requirement document.
So might be you know you can uh it has assumed this like based on the training and different test cases
and test plan document, that average response time should be less than three seconds.
But it might be different for your, you know, your, uh, website.
So it's better to consult with your stakeholder, you know, product managers before finalizing this.
And you can update it later.
But at the high level, it is giving you all the functional and non-functional test cases like, you
know, security like stay idle for 15 plus minute and information session expire after inactivity.
Verify password and encryption in DB.
Register user DB for password storage.
Right.
So it is giving all the non-functional thing.
Check accessibility of the login form.
Use x dev tool.
Wave tool.
Run analysis on login form.
No critical wcaG or A or AA violations happen.
So all these basically Captcha bot prevention.
All these things you know for product catalog management it has generated around eight test cases.
So this is how how we can generate functional and non-functional test cases using AI.
And with this like we are we are basically you know, these type of things generally take 1 or 2.
Those people who are in testing, they know that, you know, for generating these many test cases,
functional and non-functional testing, it take 1 or 2 days, right, to generate all these test cases.
And, you know, but now in, in, in say 1 or 2 minute, we are basically, you know, ready with all
the test cases we can just review it.
And, you know, and we have all our function and one function test cases ready with us.
All right.
Thank you so much.


=== AI Agent Browser Automation with Playwright MCP ===


--- Test Strategy Creation for Business Requirement Using AI ---

Hello friend.
In this tutorial we will go over how we can generate the test strategy with I.
Right?
So now we have our test plan.
We have our test cases right?
I have exported in in Excel.
So these are the test cases we have in in user management.
And we have this number of test cases we have in product catalog.
But suppose uh if ah the all test cases generally I need to run when the entire product is developed.
Uh the answer probably no, because in today's world, you know, we are talking about shift left testing,
you know, early testing where, you know, we have more test cases in, you know, unit test cases
or integration layer or API layer, and only few end to end test cases should be part of my, uh, UI
testing because, you know, at the time of UI testing, if I, if I found any bug that is most costly.
So, uh, so in terms of that, you know, I want, you know, I to basically classify because if I
go by manually understand and you know, and then classify the test cases, then it's, uh, like a
kind of a take a lot of time.
But I want, like, you know what?
I test the test cases that I had generated.
I want to classify them, you know, in which stage of the testing pyramid.
Right.
Uh, basically that goes like, uh, what?
All test cases I can mark as a unit test cases so that, you know, I can discuss with my development
team.
And, you know, they can include those test cases as a part of their unit test cases.
So, uh, let's see how we can do that.
So I will go back to, uh, ChatGPT.
And I will say okay, uh, for the above, functional and non, um, sorry, non-functional, I can
leave for the above functional test cases that you have generated.
Right?
Classify them according according to test.
we are made, right?
Let me ask this question and see like because, you know, the prompting is very important how we are
interacting with these systems I'm interacting with, like assuming that I'm interacting with any person.
So what I say, like whatever functional test cases it has generated for user management, product catalog
management, I want to classify them according to the test pyramid.
Right.
Let's see what it gives.
So it's saying first it is explaining the pyramid level unit test level, service API test level and
UI end to end test layer.
So saying that UI should be end to end.
So the complete user flow through UI is slower and better but critical for user facing scenario.
So majorly see it has a basically classify them and it is giving the reason as well.
Like why it has classify for example verify user registration via email.
It's saying it's a part of UI test because it involved from submission from UI.
Then verify login with correct correct credentials, saying it could be a part of UI and API to login
via UI, but can be API tested too, right?
And it.
For example, this type of test like ensure role based access customer can't access admin.
So for this particular test I don't need to wait for UI, right?
I can use API test best validated through API response.
So this way I like this approach of, you know, converting the test cases and classify them, uh,
in a different as per the pyramid level, like whether it's a UI test, API test, right.
Or, uh, like, you know, it, uh, unit test.
Also like for example, uniqueness in the DB, it should be a part of it saying unit test.
So this way it has summarized as well like unit test, uh, few test cases.
It has like categorized them as a part of should be a part of unit test.
These test cases should be part of API and should be part of UI test.
So this way we can, uh, convert our test cases as per the testing pyramid level and classify them
as a pyramid level.
And we can, you know, plan our testing accordingly.
Thank you so much.


=== Github Copilot as AI Pair Programmer for SDET's ===


--- Generate Test Data Using AI ---

Welcome back.
In the last lecture we have basically classified our test cases as per the testing pyramid.
Right.
And now we will understand like suppose uh, we have classified that according to, you know, uh,
like different, uh, testing pyramid, uh, cycle, like, you know, unit test, API test, and then
UI test.
Right.
So suppose, uh, I want to I want to test, for example, for this unit test, like, you know, developer
asked me to create the test data or share the test data, you know, with, with with development team
or probably, you know, they have shared some dev environment and I want to test their logic as well.
So how I can generate the test data for this.
For example, I can write uh, a tool like this, you know, uh.
Generate test data for uh, test cases with ID, I can write like, for example, generate the test,
uh, for example, where it has given a unit test, uh, here, like, you know, verify uniqueness
in DB, for example.
Right.
With ID this or for example for API test like this.
Add product with variant or say login credential.
Verify user login with credential that involve API test.
I want to generate the test data for it.
And this right.
Let's see.
So let's see what it has generated.
So here the test data for specified test cases.
So for test case this verify skew uniqueness in p in DB.
So it has generated like okay you know uh different a product name category you know value and notes.
So this test data we can use you know because it's a kind of skew is kind of, you know, unique identifier
for product, uh, in inventory.
Right.
So it has generated, uh, field value and notes for that, you know, like this, like this negative
skew already exist should trigger duplicate error.
Right.
So this type of uh uh see it has generated few values.
Right.
So this has generated the test data.
And similarly for login credential like, you know, uh, this looks good as well.
Okay.
Uh, we have ensure valid user can login successfully for the email and password.
User role.
Device.
Right.
So must already be registered in the system with matching credentials.
So it has generated a kind of a test data for you.
And you can use it like this.
You can tell for different test cases to generate a you know, test data.
For example.
Let's see now generate.
The test data for okay.
So here the test data for this verify login failed with invalid password.
So test data table it has generated in the tabular format like for example email registered user correct
password invalid password user role.
You know so it has it has generated saying that you should get a if you're basically testing it with
invalid password.
So you should get invalid credential like this type of message.
Then again negative test variant.
Also incorrect password empty password field special characters exceedingly long password.
Right.
So it has generated a different type of test data for us for different test cases.
And this way we can generate test data for our test cases.
Thank you so much.


=== Chrome Dev Tool AI for QA and Dev ===


--- Prompt Creation - Role assignment and describing the use case ---

Hey friends.
Welcome back.
So in this lesson we will start with like how to interact with ChatGPT to create a test automation framework.
This test automation framework would be, you know, using any technical stack.
So for demonstration purpose I will be using Python as a programming language, playwright as a test
automation framework for web and py test as a test runner and request library, which is a Python library
for automating the API automation and for reporting.
I will be using PyTorch HTML and for ci CD, I will be using GitHub actions.
Right.
So the purpose of this lecture is to like how to start, how to basically, you know, interact with
uh, any AI tool, for example, in this case ChatGPT.
Right.
So that, you know, we, we can create test automation framework right in, in a matter of few hours,
not forget about, you know, forget about the days when we have to, you know, create.
It takes a, you know, multiple sprints to create a test automation framework.
Right.
We got that much bandwidth.
And we have we created create, you know, so many different frameworks, you know, or one framework
like, you know, uh, in multiple sprint, you know, in one sprint, we create some utility, some
reporting utilities, you know, some proof of concepts nowadays.
Also we do those POC and all those things.
But you know, but you can create in a day.
Uh, right.
The working uh, uh automation framework.
Right.
So that is uh, that is what we want to we, uh, demonstrate in this lecture.
Right.
So let me start like how to write a prompt.
So we'll start with like, you know, uh, first we have to, you know, the basic I will, you know,
with this course, you will understand, like, you know, how you can talk to, you know, any tool
tools like ChatGPT.
So first of all, we have to assign a role.
So it's like, you know, when you're communicating to a one on one communication you are having with
a person like you assign a role to that person.
So you write, start with like, you know, like this.
Assume the role of QA, for example, like, uh, I'm taking a role like a solution architect.
Right.
Having vast experience in.
So don't worry, I will share all these prompts with you so that you know, you you can just change,
uh, the text.
For example, you might need to in your company, you need to create a framework on selenium Java.
So testing.
So, uh, don't feel like, oh, this is we are going with Python.
So same concept, same thing.
We can apply for any of the text.
It could be a JavaScript.
It could be any, uh, automation tool.
Right.
But the the idea, you know, I have to take one, uh, for a demonstration.
I have to take, uh, one tool.
So for this, I have you.
Because nowadays, you know, Python is in, in, like, in demand, right.
So so why don't we use this, uh, technical stack?
So I go with this Python for this, but you can apply to any automation tool for your choice.
And whatever you are going, uh, whatever you are going to use in your, uh, company.
Right.
So, so it would be like Python then Py.test request.
Right?
You need to, you know, write these things.
But since I will be sharing this prompt with you, so, you know, you just need to, you know, fill
in the blanks.
These things, uh, for example, like GitHub actions for CI CD.
Like we'll be going to use a GitHub account and GitHub actions.
How to run a test on each push of the code.
Or you can run it like uh, on merging of uh on creation of any pull request.
So all our test automation test cases will run right.
And sorry database validations.
It could like for example I'm taking example of MySQL.
Like this.
Okay so here like I have given a role and what I want having a vast experience in technical stack.
Right.
So now I tell uh ChatGPT that what task you need to perform.
So you have given a task.
you have given task right?
Given spelling is not correct.
Don't worry about too much about spelling so that these tools are smart enough.
They can figure it out.
But yeah, we can fix so that is not a problem.
So you have given task to create.
Ah, so now I'm telling about the major business problem.
Like you need to create a framework right.
Which support.
Web API database and testing a different resolution.
It could be you know we need to test on different resolution on like, you know on different screen
sizes.
We want to test.
Right.
So whether we need to check that our application is, you know, uh adaptive or not to that resolutions
or right that a number of width and height of the screen size.
So this is a task I have gained and create framework which is best as per industry standard.
So why I'm doing this?
Because I know that these models been trained on, you know, so many uh, like they have been trained
on lot of data on they have seen different frameworks on internet.
Right.
So which is the latest one.
And you know, the in the best industry standard it has to follow that following.
Best.
Coding.
Practices.
And is reusable and scalable.
Right.
So this is very important.
The framework what we are going to create is should be reusable.
Should be scalable.
One to start.
Building it together.
So I don't want like ChatGPT to overwhelm me with, you know, a complete multiple dummy files.
Right.
It should be a step by step, you know?
Let's build it together, step by step.
So, see, I'm telling everything.
You know, we should.
You should be, you know, very detail oriented while talking to, uh, tools like ChatGPT or Gemini
or Deep sea or sake.
Right.
And all these tools, if you explain it more, right, you get a better, you know, more crisp answer
that you are looking forward.
So, uh, you can mention that we'll start.
With the foundation.
And add.
So we'll see.
Might not be.
We get on first prompt, we get a better answer.
You know we might need to, you know, interact with this, uh, tools.
But yeah in the initially my as per my experience what I got, you know, uh, the better you, you
detail oriented, you, you provide better prompt, you know, more concise, tell, uh, tell you know,
in detail what is your requirement?
You know, to the point the better you get.
Uh, better other chances to get a crisp response.
Right.
So, uh, we have written the till now this.
Right.
And we'll we'll, uh, add more detail to this prompt, you know, in upcoming lecture.
So.
Yeah, uh, let's, uh, you know, let's meet in next lecture.
Thank you.


=== PDF Comparison with AI ===


--- Prompt Creation - Getting First draft version of framework ---

Welcome back from previous lecture.
We will proceed further.
So till now we have assigned role and describe the use case.
Now next step is to you know share which are you can we can share the application under test with you
know G2 like ChatGPT.
So for this demonstration purpose I will be using this uh application.
I found it very, you know, good application having, you know, both web and, you know, API, uh,
test.
So you can go I can, you can go and explore this application.
So, you know, uh, you have we have all the API listed down here, you know, and we can sign up sign
in product card.
So it's a e-commerce application.
Have all the, uh, you know, those, uh, UI based you can practice, you know, so that is not a
scope of this course.
But, you know, right now, here we are to understand how we can create a framework.
So I have to choose one application.
So I have this application.
So but in your case it could be you know your actual application under test.
Right.
So I need to share, you know, this application with.
Uh, ChatGPT.
Right.
That you need to, uh, consider this application, right, so we can write, like, you know, uh,
continuation, like consider application.
Under test.
Is this right.
And also like create a page object model.
So I for this like, you know, I'm clear that I need to go with page object model.
But in your case you can you know, you can have a cucumber BDD and that, you know you can create like
that.
But for here, like I want to create a page object model for web and API test.
Right.
So both right I want kind of page object model.
Right.
Each functionality should be encapsulated within that particular page or API functionality should be
encapsulated within that specific category of all these APIs right and right.
And then we can say generate, at least for now, like, you know, at least two.
Two test cases, we can add more test cases.
But for now, you know, two, two test cases for.
At least.
Five pages and API categories.
In application.
Right.
So uh, so we have mentioned that okay, at least create two test cases and consider five pages.
So it could be login contact us page.
You know product card and multiple application.
You can see there you know like different pages.
You know contact us.
Product card signup test cases home.
So just consider five uh different pages and API categories.
API categories could be you know, if we go here like, you know, check that product list is search
product, then another category, then verify login.
Right.
Create user account you know account detail by email.
So all those things you know I, I let ChatGPT to categorize for me.
So yeah I think we are good and let's see how it goes.
Like we just enter it.
So see it is giving you know, the base structure and base foundation of your automation framework.
So uh, right.
So it says that okay, uh, this is your automation framework.
And, you know, uh, you can create like this, uh, in your local.
Right?
So, uh, like in your, in, for example, like, uh, I will be using PyCharm for automation.
Right.
So, you know, we can create a new project in PyCharm, right.
And with this name automation underscore framework.
Right.
And then uh, it will update.
So uh, what uh, I think uh, I have already, you know, created, uh, one basic Python project.
So I will go with this name only.
So let me tell, uh, I forgot to mention this, uh, rename project.
Let me copy this.
Right.
Okay.
Uh, I want the project name to be this.
And another thing I want, like, it could be, you know, the train on last two or last year data it
might be trained on.
Right.
But I want the latest data.
So ChatGPT has a capability to, you know, interact with the web.
So I would say and refer the web for latest trends in.
The or test automation.
So so that, you know, whatever it output it is giving, it should give based on that.
Right.
So it will update it context.
You know say it's giving updated the saved memory.
It's searching the internet.
Okay.
Let's proceed with building the automation framework from I incorporate the latest trend see in 2025.
So this time I am recording, you know, 2025.
So latest uh, references here how you will structure and implement the framework.
So this is the base, uh, project directory of my framework.
Right.
Then it's saying we need to create all these configuration, you know Config.yaml for configuration
file data directory for test data file pages.
Right.
See the pages.
It update the page according to the application like it has a base page, home page, contact page,
product page, signup login page, card page.
Right?
I have not shared anything, I just gave the log a URL of the application under test and it has figured
it out by itself.
Then I share the A.
I have not shared any API detail right.
It fetched by itself like product API user api category api brand API.
Search API.
Right.
Similarly, it has, you know, categorized beautifully.
Like the web.
Test test test contact test.
Product test.
Signup.
Login test card C.
You know, if we go and create this structure, it would take, you know, weeks.
But now you know in fraction or in like in say like last in five minute, ten minute.
We you know, if you have this prompt, you can just fill it out and, you know, you can create a basic
structure of framework.
This is the beauty of JNI tool like ChatGPT right.
And we will be creating a live working framework using this tool.
This tool.
Right.
In upcoming lecture.
Thank you so much.


=== API Automation of ML Models ===


--- Creating Project structure ---

Welcome back.
So in this lecture you know we'll start creating the framework different different component as suggested
by ChatGPT.
Right.
So first it's saying that we have to create this config folder.
So I will be explaining parallelly like you know what why we are creating this everything right.
You can just you know right click on the root folder, you know and then you can create a directory
like this config.
Right.
Okay.
And inside the config it has config dot YAML file.
So basically this config dot YAML file will contain all the configuration like our application url,
API base URL database credentials, all those things right.
So it has config dot YAML.
Okay let me close this.
After that we have a data folder.
So I close this config.
And then again right click on the root project root directory.
data.
Okay, for now, data is blank.
That is fine.
Let's move to another directory.
Pages.
Okay.
We have pages.
And inside page we have a base page.
So this base page will be the base class.
Right.
It is following the inheritance right a parent and child relationship.
So we'll have a base page class so that in this this is a.py file.
So we'll have this as a Python file you know base page.
Okay we have this base page then home dot page right click quickly.
You can do all these things right home page.py.
Then we have this contact page.
So in your application it could be other pages right.
But you know you understand the concept contact page.
Then you know product page.
Signup login page.
Right.
So we can create different different page classes.
Now it's right now it's all blank.
For now I can close all these things.
But yeah we have a basic skeleton of a automation framework right.
Next is APIs.
So again this is at the root level.
So I right click directory APIs.
And then this base API.
Then product API.
Users API.
Category API.
API.
You know, this won't take much time, you know.
So you know that your application.
Right?
So this way you know that, okay, whether the coverage is correct or not.
Finally, you can check the coverage as well.
Then, uh, we have the page class.
We have pages, we have APIs.
Then comes the test.
Right.
Important one.
Directory tests.
Right.
So test under test we have test underscore home.
This will be a Python file test home then test contact.
You know as you are creating it from yourself right.
So this way you can explain during your interviews as well.
Like when you are paying for interview.
Right.
You know that okay you have created by yourself right.
So this gives you a better command over the framework.
So you can, you know, say that okay, uh, you can better explain.
So most of the time, you know, a very common question in interview comes like explain the different
components of your framework.
So in interview you can explain this as you're creating by yourself.
Right.
You know that okay.
What are the different component pages.
You know page object model data configuration API to test and how they're interlinked together.
Right.
So you have a mind map in your mind right.
So then you can, you know, better explain.
So most of the time now what happens.
Like, you know we we go and you know, just cram the things.
But then at the, at a, at a runtime interview we fail to explain.
Right.
Most I saw that most of the students, uh, do like this.
But if you create yourself, you know, you create framework by yourself, even with the help of ChatGPT,
but you know you barely.
You are getting like ChatGPT is giving these answers, right?
And you can, you know, double check that.
And by this you will understand your framework better.
Okay.
Oh we forgot that we have to under test.
It is it is like, you know, a segregated test in web and API separately.
So ideally it should be under.
There is another folder web and inside web.
We need to move all these.
Okay.
So it's saying to refactor.
Okay.
Yes PyCharm do.
So I'm using community version of PyCharm.
You can download.
You can.
It's simple like what based on your OS.
Right now I'm using windows.
But in case you are using windows or or Mac OS right you can go to Google that.
Just say PyCharm Community Edition and you can download this Community edition of PyCharm.
It is freely available.
Then in under test you can have another folder Call for APIs.
Right.
And you can create these.
Python file.
You can do all these things.
And you know this is a one time effort.
And then your framework is up and running.
From day one you'll see our coverage.
You can, you know, talk to your leadership and share the how much coverage from requirement traceability
metric and all those key concepts we know.
Right.
So you can explain them.
So we have, you know, test structure of you know all the APIs ready web ready okay.
And rest uh, we will cover in our next lectures.
Right.
So thank you so much.


=== What is n8n ? The Automation Brain Behind Modern QA and AI Workflows ===


--- Completing the remaining files and folders ---

Welcome back.
So in continuation of a previous lecture, you know we'll complete the remaining modules like Utility
and Python lectures.
So let's add them as well.
So right click you know directory utils.
You can.
So utils will have all the utility like utility logger helper.
Right.
So you know let's create one by one.
Python file.
Right.
Then we have a logger for logging in the automation framework which is also very important logger.
And then helper helper utility like you know for taking screenshot or creating directories.
You know all those helping stuff this utility will do.
Let me close all tabs.
Then at the root level we'll have this one test dot pi.
So this is very important by test concept test dot p y.
So it has all the fixtures uh, it contain all the fixtures, uh, in the uh, what we use in generally
in pi test.
Right.
So we write here it present at the root directory.
Then we have this requirement dot test which is our contain all the required dependencies.
Like for example in Java we have a pom.xml.
Similarly in Python we have requirement or test that contain all the required dependencies.
Right.
So if we want to share this project in some and want to execute this project in some different machine.
Right.
So they don't they just need to, you know, go ahead and you know, run this requirement or text file
and they will get all the necessary dependencies to run this project.
This is sorry this is not a Python file.
So this let me create a simple file requirement dot txt.
So yeah it's at the root level.
So right now I'm saying it's empty.
That's fine.
Then we have Pi destiny.
Again, this is for mentioning different, you know, sections of your, uh, like in your framework,
like your different environments.
Okay.
And then the read me dot file.
Dot MD extension.
Markdown.
Okay.
So all the necessary structure three structure is created in our, uh, uh, project structure.
Right.
So we are ready with this.
Uh, we have created the required.
Now, uh, in the next lecture, we'll start with, you know, uh, go one by one in each of this folder
and we'll try to understand why we are creating that.
And then, you know, we'll gradually move toward completion of this framework.
Thank you so much.


=== Database Validation and AI Integration with n8n ===


--- Adding dependencies through requirements.txt ---

Welcome back.
So, uh, what I have noticed that, you know, uh, in, in our prompt, uh, chain of prompts.
Right.
Initially, the ChatGPT has given the option of bass bass pages and bass API, but, you know, in up
where I, you know, uh, like, uh, updated it with the framework name, then it somehow doesn't.
Okay.
It has mentioned.
Okay, fine.
So it's there, but it has not shared the code of that page.
Page.
It has assumed that it has already shared.
So what I have no problem what I can do.
You know, I can just add that now, uh, now add all required.
Actions in.
I just, uh, you know, again, recall the ChatGPT that, you know, we have to add this thing in structure
and share the code as well.
So now add all the required action in base page class, uh, which Our latest and standard as per.
So I will be sharing, you know, with, you know, the ChatGPT, uh, about this, uh, documentation
of, you know, the playwright official documentation.
Right.
So right now it's for Node.js.
So I will change it to Python, and I will share this so that, you know, it will refer the latest
and the greatest changes.
So I will share this link.
Right.
And then as per uh this and update.
API related actions in it was HBase API right HBase API class from.
So for API we are using request library.
Right.
So I go to Python request page.
And you know this is the documentation.
So I just give this link to ChatGPT.
So these are called you know, in AI it's called function call.
It's able to call the URLs.
Right.
So I just mentioned that here.
Let's see what it gives.
Awesome.
Let's modernize the base page and base API with the latest standard action as per the official documentation.
So this is the base page see.
And in the base page it has shared all like page dot go to page dot go back go forward.
Everything right.
It is still generating.
So no need to generate anything.
You know it generate entire base page class for you right?
Based on the, uh, the documentation of a playwright.
So I what I do, I just copy this and go to my.
So let's start with the base page.
I just open this base page class.
Okay.
And just paste it.
That's all.
Okay.
And right.
So yeah I need to go to uh.
So right now it is complaining that okay, a playwright is not installed.
You know, all those tools are not installed.
Don't worry.
We will when we update the requirement or text and you run this so it will come by default.
So okay let me do this now.
So in the requirement dot txt let me check whether it has generated the requirement or text or not.
So you need to check recall whatever it has generated and what it has not generated.
Uh I think it has not generated the requirement text for now.
Okay.
Uh, it I think it will those things later, but yeah.
Um, we know, uh, that, you know, all those things we can ask to generate the requirement or the
necessary dependencies.
Okay.
Please generate requirements.
Dot text file or above libraries.
So here is a requirement of text for the tailor for queue automation framework from I.
It include all the library like playwright request pytest, python, HTML, YAML support for reading
the YAML file mysql because you're using db for MySQL ci CD, right?
Okay, so it has generated a everything for you.
You can see here.
Right.
So like that it has given the version as well.
But uh, I would suggest don't give this version.
So it might be, you know, old and maybe conflicting with each other.
So I will copy this but remove everything version whatever it has added.
Right.
So by default it will take the latest one.
So I will the play playwright like this then Pi test.
Pi test HTML.
Uh, alert Pi test.
Uh, I don't need it for now.
Let me remove this.
So it might generate some, you know, something extra.
So you know you can review and remove.
If it's not, you know you don't need it.
Request.
I'll keep it by.
Yeah that is for YAML files.
Correct.
And Python.
Yeah that is fine.
And you know this what it is logging and.
Okay.
Let it be like this.
For now I am just removing this logging as well.
So yeah.
But yeah let's keep it like this and let's save it.
Okay.
No.
No issue.
Uh, so this is what our requirement file looks like, right?
And what we can do is, you know, we can go to the terminal.
Let's do it.
And then just type this command pip install hyphen r.
Right.
Okay.
Requirements.txt.
Okay.
And just enter.
So it will download all the necessary dependencies.
Install in your local virtual environment and you can see whatever errors you are getting previously.
You will not get those errors.
And there is another dependency for playwright, right?
That is for installing the playwright related browsers that we have to do separately.
So let me write like play and install just like this.
Very simple.
So let this indexing to complete and then I will execute this command.
So what it will do, it will install all the playwright playwright related, uh, browsers.
Right.
The chromium browsers, you know, all those browsers it will install.
And then you can let me run this.
It will take some time downloading chromium.
You can see.
Right.
It will download and it will wait.
So, you know, let me pause the recording and then we can continue.


=== Intelligent Test Planning with n8n for QA Engineers ===


--- Achieving Encapsulation with application Page Classes ---

Hello everyone.
So last session we have created the base API and the base page class.
And along with the configuration file right.
Now in continuation of that let's continue with the uh the page classes.
So one is that home underscore page class.
So you know we need to go to this home page.
So see along not only it has created the actions, it has created the locator as well.
Right.
No need to, you know, uh, inspect the element and it has by default, you know, it has scanned the
entire URL application.
Right.
And it has just scanned everything by itself, you know.
So this is how, uh, it beautifully it has created locators, the constructor of the class.
Right.
And locators the and also the actions.
Okay.
Home page is done.
Then next is contact us page.
Contact us page, we can paste like this all the locators methods.
Next is product page.
See product page.
It has created all the action locators and along with the constructor.
So one more.
One important thing that I want to highlight here that see each page class.
For example this product page class is inheriting the base page class.
You can see like.
This is how in Python classes inherit from another class, like by putting it under the parentheses
pair of parentheses.
This.
Each page class is inheriting the, um you know, the base page class.
Because you know, because of this, the base page class has all the page of playwright page object
access.
And through that it has all the necessary, uh, UI interaction method.
So all these method basically being inherited by the page individual page classes.
Right.
So right this way.
Uh, they have access to all those present in the base age class.
So this is an important update I want to share.
And next is, uh, we have completed the product page.
Now next is login page login.
Sign up.
Login page.
Yes.
Kind of login page.
Sign up.
Login page.
Signup.
Login has created by itself, right?
All the methods.
Then cart page.
Here we have the cart page.
Just like that.
Okay, now all the API.
All the UI pages are done.
Now it is asking for API's product, API, dot, py and all those stuff.
Right?
So here product API we have here just copy.
Base API we don't have base.
Okay.
Base API we have not filled.
So let me copy the base API first because we know this thing.
Yeah this is the base API.
Okay.
Sorry I created base API pages.
Sorry.
My bad.
So I need to remove this.
And now it has a base API here under the API section okay.
So see the error gone for API we have.
Now going back to the page classes.
Okay.
Product page we have done.
Now comes user API.
Okay.
And then categories API.
And okay so API somehow it has not generated the fraud.
So let's ask a brand category API is done.
Product API is done.
Okay search API is not done and user API is done okay.
And API.
Okay.
Only two left.
Okay.
So we can ask create page class or.
Search underscore API and brands underscore API.
So see it is like appending API at the end of the page classes.
All the are good or good practices it's already following right.
So it will create and will look into this in the next lecture.
Thank you.


=== AI-Powered Pull Request Review and Slack Notifications ===


--- Base Page and Base API class with config.yaml ---

Hello, Fred.
In the last lesson we have learned about like how to install all the dependencies through requirements.txt
file, right?
And that is all done with this requirement dot txt.
By running this command in terminal like pip install hyphen r requirements.txt, you are able to install
all the required dependencies like playwright, pi test, pi test, HTML request, pi ml right and MySQL
Python for database and other libraries required.
So that is all done.
And now you can see earlier we were getting an error in HBase underscore page dot pi.
But now we are not seeing any error in the import statement of this class.
And one more thing we did in the last uh, discussion that, you know, I have shared with ChatGPT that
create actions from uh, from the playwright document and actions document and you know, and then,
uh, like, Right.
Refer this request Python request library for creating the base page class and base API page class,
so you can see how extensively it has created this base underscore page class.
Earlier it just had two three methods, but now it has covered all the, you know, UI interaction pattern
like is visible is enabled.
Get text.
So you see everything it has created.
So I just copy that in my project.
And similarly in the under page we need to create another class.
So this is one.
Yeah we need to create a this base API.
Okay.
So let me create a this file base API.
We need to.
So this is for a base class for all the API interactions.
Right.
So we just need to copy this and paste here right.
No error.
So request is able to identify.
See, it is giving all the Python documentation for this.
So, uh, this is uh, one thing.
And now we have this base and page class ready.
And earlier it has given uh, if you have look into that, you know, we it has shared the configuration.
So here after the structure, it has shared, like, you know, what will be the structure of the configuration
YAML file.
So I will copy this and just let me close them okay.
Config.yaml and paste here.
So in this config YAML it has shared the base URL uh which is the application URL, the api url base
URL slash API, and the db detail.
So right now it has shared some dummy db detail.
But you can change according to your application DB detail like post.
You can change update with your db hostname or IP.
For MySQL the default port is 3306 right.
And the username password you can update it in Database name, so it has just created a placeholder.
I mean, you can update it later.
So all your configuration are centralized.
That is the uh, again a advantage you can mention we will discuss about how to explain this framework
in an interview.
But yeah this you cannot for now down not down for now.
Right.
That this is all your configuration your application URL, your DB details, your resolution that your
application going to run.
Like generally, uh, if you're running it on a desktop.
So there are two resolution 19201080 and then 1366768.
And it has shared it has gone one step ahead and share one resolution for mobile, like for example,
iPhone X, it has shared with you.
Uh, for now we don't need we are not testing any mobile testing here, so that is fine.
So we can keep these two resolution for now right.
So yeah, that's all for today.
We'll uh, like our next topics uh, in next section.
Thank you.


=== AI Self-Healing Test Automation — From Zero to Architecture ===


--- Config reader for reading configurations ---

Welcome back.
So in the last class we have created a two missing API page classes.
This is for search API and the brand API.
So you know ChatGPT has based on our request like create page classes for search API and brand API.
It has come up with these two.
So so friends like there could be a chances like you know you are even how efficient you write your
prompt.
There might be a chance that you need to further interact.
It's like a communication, you know, one on one, you know, communication with any person you are
having, right?
So suppose you have given how efficient you have given an instruction.
So there might be other person might be few things.
So you have to again ask what you need.
Similarly with these AI tools like ChatGPT, you might have to ask a follow up question.
Okay, this is good.
But now I want, uh, along with this.
I want this as well.
So it will update or its memory, its context window, which is in a technical terms, in terms of,
this JNI tool.
It will update all those things and will give up, give you a output whatever you output you want,
right.
So it will uh, generate like this search API underscore py right.
It has given us.
So let's copy this code uh search api.py I just right here and also see it has shared that okay the
node the search product endpoint in the automation exercise API export post data.
Expect post data like so it's sharing that okay.
What kind of uh payload this API expect.
Right.
So this is how in detail it is giving right.
With with this you you are also parallelly understanding the business logic of your application.
Right.
So while designing the framework so you just not be only technical person, you will understand that
how API you know how your business logic works.
You know how uh behind the scene, your application APIs are working, what kind of payload they expect,
right?
So this is what you also gain a knowledge on that part.
So in brand underscore API we copy this uh whatever it's present right.
Then how to use in this.
So it has shared some test.
But uh I will not go with this test.
But instead of I will ask uh.
Okay.
Thanks.
Uh, please create.
Test cases.
Uh.
Pi test based salvage to add more information.
Salvage.
Better Python based test cases.
Okay, uh, let's remove this.
Right.
Uh, please create a base because it has already have a context, uh, of all technical stacks that
we have already given.
So please create, uh, please create test cases.
Based on.
Above shared web and API page classes.
Perfect.
Below are the sample test cases for both web and API using the page classes we have already created.
These are structured using pie test and follow best practices for clarity, assertions, and usability.
So it is it has given a test cases like for test, underscore dot pi test underscore dot pi with all
the test see.
So it is basically entering the data as well right.
Then test dot pi test signup login dot pi test underscore car dot pi right.
And again for API as well it has created the test cases.
Wow two test cases per pages right.
Users see wow some Here it has created test cases for categories brands search API.
Wow that's awesome guys right?
Isn't it awesome that it has generated all the data for you?
So let's go inside.
Now let me close all these tabs and going back to the test.
So first one is test underscore home.
So we already have a structure created.
We just need to copy paste right.
If you are writing a current correct prompt.
So it's just a matter of copy paste right.
Most of the time.
And you know the concept why it is what it is generating.
Right.
So you know, so one problem I see in this response that it is just hard coded the URLs.
So I should ask like don't hard code the URL.
So here comes the experience right.
Whatever experience you have as a stack or a queue architect right.
Or automation engineer right?
You will know that okay.
If even I if tool give a you think that it's not as per the expected standard so you can correct it.
Don't hard code the application URL like I am doing.
Right the URL.
From right what what file we have under config we have config dot YAML file.
Config dot YAML file.
Perfect.
Let externalize the base url using config.yaml.
The best practice for any scalable framework.
So see it has correct its mistake.
So we have the config config.
So now it's saying okay you want to use config.yaml.
So we need to create uh a reader file for you know reading this configuration.
So under the utility utils we have one package okay.
We have we can create a config reader dot p y.
Sorry.
Reader.
Oh sorry.
It should be a python file and I just refactor it.
Okay.
Reader dot p y I just copy.
So what it is doing on the high level I explained.
So it it this is a class config reader right?
What it is doing, it's just basically initializing the uh file which you have uh, like in the config
dot YAML file you have.
Right.
It is just reading that path, that file.
So this you know, you might be overwhelmed with the code, but I will explain it in, in a very good
way.
So this, this is the constructor of this in the constructor what it is doing, it is constructing the
path of the configuration of Yemen.
So if I, have if you have given, uh, like, uh uh, like if you like look into the framework structure.
Right.
How it is designed.
So this config.yaml is present under config directory.
Right.
This is so how it is designing the path of this config.yaml.
Is that okay.
So it's saying okay where this config.reader.py file exists.
It exists inside the utils right.
So it is like os dot path joins.
This basically joins the path.
So first is OS dot path directory directory name in parentheses.
Underscore underscore file underscore underscore.
So this is a way uh in Python right.
To get the path of the current directory which uh and the current directory of the current file, the
current file is this config file.
It is.
And the path of this directory is utils.
Right.
It is saying okay this this give this line, give the path of the uh construct the path of Uh, this
file, which is config reader dot p y.
After that, you know, uh, it is joining, you know, it, it go, uh, one level up.
So if you go one level up from, uh, this utils right will come to the root directory, project root
directory.
And from the project root directory it's saying go to config config and in config.
It is config dot YAML.
So this is how you need to read this code.
Sorry.
So right.
So this is basically uh uh finding the first path of the current file and then going one level up,
then config and then config inside config it is config dot HTML.
So it will this is a configuration path.
And now it is using this uh context manager like with statement in Python which is an efficient way
of uh, you know, of reading any file or writing to a file or reading from data from the database because
it takes care of all the resources, it close those resources connections after use.
Right.
So we are just opening this file at this path in the read mode.
And we are from here we are accessing that file as file.
And then uh, we are using pyyaml, you know, uh library using that.
We are just unloading that into that file.
So in a dictionary format we are reading.
Right.
And once we have then we can, you know, get the and you know, to get the environment, you know,
the environment.
Similarly base URL, all those things uh we are reading it.
So let me copy this.
Let me check.
Do we have a environment here.
No we don't have.
So let's for now, um, comment it out.
So if you go to Config reader, let's copy it.
And for now, uh, I am just commenting out this environment part.
I'm interested in an api url and db.
Okay.
It is giving some error.
Okay.
That is environment data.
Okay.
It has over.
So it.
Okay.
That's fine.
Environment.
Okay.
Um, I think we need to tell him that.
Create a config reader.
Create config.
It has created the config reader in correct format, but there are some modification required.
So it is looking for some environment.
But we currently we have not that in our in that information.
So either we can update this config.yaml as per update.
Okay.
Let me do like this.
Uh, instead of updating this keep it like this.
Let's update this.
So it's good if we have a an environment handling as well in our configuration, but then update the
below config dot HTML file as per above.
Config reader.
So here it has updated.
See it has added the environment section QA staging right.
So let's copy this.
And paste here.
So for now it is just using this config reader environment.
So for example I am considering this environment as QA.
So I'm fetching QA environment details.
And all the details are fetching here.
Okay good.
We are good.
So okay so our configuration is ready and config reader is also ready.
Right?
And going back to the test.
Now going back to the test.
It has, uh, does it have updated the test?
Okay.
Configuration reader, we have added updated test base URL okay.
Home page.
So here it is updating the update API test okay.
Every time in the test it is calling this config reader.
Right.
Py test section.
Right okay okay okay.
Uh so I found one problem here is that, you know, uh, in every test it is always calling this, uh,
config reader.
Right.
And creating the object.
And based on that it is fetching this details the config reader and then config.
So uh, what if you can uh, you know, optimize it further.
So yeah, we will, uh, take care of this in the next lecture.
Thank you.


=== Bonus ===


--- Optimized Framework with Conftest.py ---

Hello friends.
From from the last section we have observed that, you know, it is a hard coded the URL and even like
it is calling this configuration reader every in every test.
So we want to make it more optimized.
So what I have written a prompt like add a config load.
So you know I want to all this type of reading the configuration.
And you know creating the browser object browser context right in the centralized place.
So in Pytest we have that centralized place is called test.py.
So this context.py has contains fixtures which are basically your setup and teardown methods that you
want to run before and after test.
Right.
So all these configuration I want to centralize to the context of py right.
So that's why I mentioned that add config load from context.py and create api client fixture that returns
session object.
So this is one for API and browser context fixture that yield the playwright context, right?
Create another fixture that use browser context returned by this feature and return the playwright page.
Right.
So there's a browser, then browser context and then playwright page.
Right.
And we saw that in our page classes we are operating at the page level and update all the web and API
you know page.
Pages and test accordingly.
So let's run this.
So awesome.
We are building the framework like a pro here.
How we will integrate the Config.yaml with Context Viewer and set up a reusable fixture.
See it has created context.py with full fixture setup right?
This is what uh reading the conf reader.
It is calling config.
Then it is calling uh.
Then we have a API session client request dot session yield session.
You know then uh it is like a browser context.
So with context manager, you know simply write as p dot chromium dot launch address equals to false.
By default it is, uh, all the tests will run in the, uh.
So right now, headless equals to false.
So that means it will run the browser in the headed mode.
But yeah, we can, but it's a good practice when we are going to run this test in CI, CD.
It should be run in the headless mode so that you know it is more faster.
And it is adding, you know, the configuration, reading the configuration from the resolution, you
know, browser new context.
It is viewport passing the configuration here and then returning the context.
And from this context it is updating this page.
So let me copy this context code for test.py.
And in our framework it is at this level.
And let me paste everything here.
So for all these fixtures right it has kept the scope as session like for example reading the config
reader.
So only one time this will be happen.
So that is more efficient.
So every time we don't need to you know call this config reader and create a object of this and API
client write request dot session.
You know, this is again session wise.
It is calling and you know, browser context.
So it has called session wise.
But I would say, you know, as you're going to run in a parallel box, we can update it accordingly.
So we'll we'll visit at this later point of time.
But for now we are good.
Right.
So okay we have this duplicated import.
So let me remove this okay contest.py is ready.
Let's see how it has updated the page classes API page class update API page to request a session from
the API client.
So it has.
So let me check what previously we have in the base API.
So if I go under API base API.
So it was having session okay it already using the session object right.
The session okay request session.
So earlier it was calling from here.
Right.
See it is calling in every page class okay.
In the bra in the base API it was calling request or session.
But that is not a good practice, right?
It should be from the context.
It should come from the base.
You know, your, uh, fixture classes.
So that's why, uh, it is in the constructor.
It is, uh, you know, it is passing.
Basically this is called dependency injection.
It is injecting the fixture inside this constructor and using this constructor, it is initializing
this object.
Right.
So let me update the base API.
Uh this put post.
Okay.
Earlier it has given more method but that's fine for now.
We are good.
We'll update it later.
Base API is fine with the API class like this right?
So it is saying each API class.
Uh let me go to brand API.
So this is what we have.
And just we need to update the constructor only test will remain the same because each page page class
are basically inheriting the, uh, the base classes, right?
Similarly.
Categories.
We are updating it like for other API classes.
See, I think we are done.
So.
it's all.
And for the web.
Now let's go to the web page classes.
So this is the base page class update usage in all other page object example.
So it has given page.
That is my base page is this page page number page okay I think that is fine.
It has not shared.
Okay.
From the base page web page class it has not given any update.
So that is fine.
Uh, in the home page, uh, update usage in all other page update example.
Okay, that is fine.
We'll see it once we run.
If you face any issue will fix it.
And then uh web test.
So let's go back to the test page.
The first one is test underscore home.
On one page.
Okay, here we need to give the config along with the page.
We need to pass config as well.
And instead of you know you need to instead of hard coded URL you need to pass config dot base URL everywhere
so that you know if if we change if in future if URL change right.
We don't need to come and update in each test.
So just like, you know, gradually and slowly our framework is taking all the best in, you know,
industry standards.
So this is done for test home test card.
Okay.
We don't have any test for test card.
Okay.
Let me ask create test cases for test.
Are.
Test contact.
Test product.
And test.
Final.
Login dot pi.
So it has given like test card.
So it is just marking like this as well.
That is fine.
So if we go to test card at home page it has added the configuration as well.
Okay, cool.
We just need to copy from here to here.
Can't get title is all attribute.
Okay.
Let it be.
We'll fix it for now.
I am just adding.
This is a test contact.
At least the structure is getting created, right.
These issues will can fix it later.
Product dot p y.
And login dot p.
Login dot p y.
We have here right now.
So, uh, we are done like we have added all the we have updated our test cases according to the centralized
configuration.
We are writing it and now we are getting few errors and we'll resolve it in the next, uh, next class.
Okay.
Thank you for joining.


=== Voice AI Testing with Sarvam AI + LangChain + Groq ===


--- Fixing the error in Project ---

Hey friends, in the last class we have seen that.
Okay?
We have added the test cases from different different pages.
But, you know, we were getting some compilation error.
Now we are going to fix those compilation error or build issues using ChatGPT.
So we will.
So ChatGPT has our context right.
What we are dealing with.
And now we can mention that okay.
For example this is the test card right.
And in this test card if you look at we are getting this method is not present.
This get title is not present in this card page.
And if you go in card page class right you cannot find this method.
Get title or card empty text.
So you know I will say that, uh, this is the page class.
Uh, in the continuation of the previous chat, we'll say getting.
Compilation error.
Or missing method.
So it is missing method in cart page dot p y page class write add simply notation for these methods
write so.
Method r cart.
Dot get.
Title.
Write.
You can mention that for these missing method.
Okay.
Existing.
Cart page dot p y file is.
Let me share this as well so that no new one.
Thanks for sharing the context.
Let's implement the missing method inside the cart class so that your test compiler unsuccessful.
So see make sure XPath cart is empty.
Match what's shown on the actual page when the cart is right.
Okay okay.
It has added this method so we can add for now right in the cart page.
Okay so now the error are gone.
In home we don't have any error right in contact test dot contact dot pi.
We are getting this error so we can say.
See me early and missing method implementation or.
Contact page dot p y.
Write missing methods are.
What are the missing method?
Said.
So.
And this is the idea right.
And one more thing.
Yeah.
Let me give the reference of the application again.
Therefore application under test is.
Okay.
So it has added right is found.
So it has rewrite everything and it has created all the.
So we can successfully go and create update the content page class.
So it's a cart page content page.
Okay.
We can ignore these errors.
Test content.
See all error gone.
Test content is perfect.
Home is perfect.
Cart.
We have fix product.
Now product.
We tell.
And so like this you need to do for product page.
What are the missing method?
Product list.
Visible search result displayed.
Application.
It has updated product page as well.
Let me go and update the product page.
All right.
See, errors are gone and then we have a test signup login.
Yes.
In final login page.
Add missing method for.
Each A plus.
Missing methods are.
Like this.
So sign up login page.
Let me copy update it.
So we all errors are gone.
So right.
So we have fixed all the web pages class right.
And all the errors.
Now we don't have any compilation error right now Test.py is also ready.
That's all for this lecture.
Uh we'll continue in next lecture.
The execution part.
Thank you.

--- API test cases execution ---

Hello friend.
Previous lecture.
We have executed the web test and we got a very good pass percentage on execution on the first time.
Now we have created the API test cases right.
Like this.
If you go under the section test API.
So we have this three test test plan test product and then test search right.
And test plan we have one test case.
Get all the brand you know that get all product and then text search.
You know this is again a for getting the uh verifying the product right.
So let's see uh how this execution goes.
Right.
So for execution we can run like pytest hyphen m API.
Remember, we have added for all the test cases.
We have added the marker as API.
So you know we can at the time of execution we can pass hyphen m API.
Right.
If I just click enter so it will start execution.
So see collected 13.
Item ten is selected because ten ah web test cases and three selected because we have three test cases
for API automation.
So now our framework support both web as well as.
API automation right.
And see what is the percentage.
Looks like all three are passed.
So you can ignore these warnings, right?
Because these are we are because we are using a mark marker in the pie test.
So they're saying we need to add.
So there is a IRF file where we can add this entry.
And we can ignore this warning.
But for now you can ignore right there.
You can see 100% pass rate three pass all three test cases or API test cases with all the validation
assertion.
You know everything.
We have not.
We don't need to create anything from ourself.
Everything has been created by ChatGPT, right?
Similarly you can use Gemini.
You can use you know it doesn't matter.
But I'm just using ChatGPT for this demonstration purpose.
But the idea is that, you know, you can create the framework in a single day and you know, you're
able to execute not only you're creating the test framework, but you're creating the test as well.
And you are basically the return on investment starts from a single day only, right?
That is the power of, you can say, the Gemini tools.
And as every as that every QA architect, test automation engineer, QA person.
We should leverage this in our project.
Okay.
So we are good.
Thank you.

--- Web test cases execution ---

Hello, friend.
So in this lecture we're going to run whatever we have written.
Right.
So it's like when the rubber hits the road, right?
Then we're going to execute whatever we have created till now.
Till now we have created all the page classes just to explain all the page classes, you know, web
pages.
It comprises of, uh, right.
It comprises of web page, web page and an API.
We have created all the API related page classes.
Right.
And now, uh, like we have created a utility, utilize a config reader.
Right.
And then we have created the test dot p y.
And we have created a test web test as well right now.
Right.
We have created a test card.
We have created test contact all those with all the locators.
And as of now API test are blank.
Will uh come to this point.
But yeah, for web we can run.
Okay.
And uh, we can run, uh, the just to refresh for everyone.
Like, you know, we can run the Pi test, uh, base test.
Right?
Uh, from the command line, we reach to the, uh, this location of the project root directory, and
we just write pi test hyphen v.
So Python, if we write pytest like this, only it will run all the test.
And if we write pytest hyphen v, it will run all the tests and it will in console, it will print uh,
the logs as well.
So let me do this like this.
And also uh, one change I what I did right.
Uh, in the contest dot pi.
Right.
Remember initially the scope was uh, all session right by default.
But now I have changed for API client function and especially for the browser context, I changed the
scope to function.
Otherwise it will.
If it's a session then in the same browser it will open multiple tabs.
Since we are changing the context, we are returning the context.
The contest is like, you know, creating a new fresh tab every time.
So for each tab it will add a new tab.
So we don't want to open new tab.
For each tab, we want a new browser for each test, right?
So right now it will be a sequential execution, but you will see how to execute a test in parallel.
So but now uh let's see uh what test.
Uh it will execute.
Right.
So we just write test hyphen V and enter.
So it has collected ten test cases.
Okay.
So it has opened the website.
Okay.
That is fast.
Pretty fast open.
Second, uh, it is verifying whether cart is empty.
Okay.
Contact form.
It will validate.
Okay.
It failed.
Okay.
No problem.
Let it be.
Let's see what about next test case.
It has enter few details okay.
So it looks like it is.
It has entered message as well.
But it is not able to click submit button okay.
Can you try this.
No submit button is not clickable, so it looks like a bug in the application.
So we have found a bug in this application.
This is how you start early in your.
Your application is getting built.
You start your automation.
So you this way you know you find maybe this automation is not perfect but at least you you you get
started, right?
You have all the necessary foundations.
And then on top of it, you can make it more optimized, more, uh, crisp.
Right.
But at least your testing start, you know, it's a shift left testing.
Right.
So you can give the feedback to your developer development team.
Right.
So this is okay.
So this is getting passed or to failure as of now which is good.
Like we executed first time.
Right.
And with all no manual intervention everything from UI.
So everything from using a tool like ChatGPT even the locator as well.
Right.
And this is a good pass rate.
I would say only out of a total test cases or ten test cases we have.
If eight are getting passed right, okay, eight are hour pass and two failed 80%.
So it's a good I mean, even though if you create manually first time, you run like, you know, we
don't get that much high pass percentage.
But you can see guys it has it has run API or sorry only web automation as of now with locator with
method with page class page object model, test, dot py, everything you know it has handled and the
pass rate is 80%.
And I'm really impressed with this performance.
Right.
So you can look at okay.
So we found that that failed not because of uh this framework issue that because of the bug.
We can see right that in the contact us page that uh, submit button is not clickable.
So might be it is overlaid by some other you can add some JavaScript or all those things you all know.
Right.
But the the idea of this course is to, you know, how quickly we can create a framework in using tools
like ChatGPT.
Okay.
So let's see, uh, move ahead in the next class we'll add API test cases.
Thank you.

--- Prompt Engineering for QA ---

Hello friends.
Now we will understand how we can create a fully functional end to end automation framework, right
using tools like ChatGPT.
So for that we should know how to write the correct prompt.
So the idea for this AI tool is that if you give the correct prompt correct input, you get a correct
output.
So for any prompt right like these, when you start, uh, starting the conversation with these tools,
right, there are few important points you need to take care.
Because if you learn these, uh, basic tricks, you will, you know, you can do, you know, a lot
of things.
You, uh, with efficiency and, you know, like, you know, your you can achieve a lot of things and
you can implement a lot of utilities tools framework as a QA as that.
Right.
Or as a architect, uh, in your, uh, project.
So let's start.
So first of all, uh, The most important thing is, you know, the role definition.
It is most important, right?
Like an objective right.
So the role definition is very important.
And the objective right.
So for example in this framework we are going to create a fully functional selenium Java testing.
Rest assured based framework right.
So you're going to write like you know assign a role to a ChatGPT like you are.
Or it's a if you are using Google Gemini or any other, uh, AI tool.
Right.
So that is the that doesn't matter.
But you should assign a role and objective.
So you are a QA solution architect with.
Extensive
expertise in say tools.
I want to build framework using Selenium.
Selenium Java.
Testing.
Rest assured.
Right.
I want test reporting.
So right now I'm using selenium.
You can use playwright or whatever like tool of your choice.
So that doesn't matter.
But for the demonstration purpose I am using I'm showing this tool reporting.
Okay.
We have written already write test reporting we need and what we need.
Suppose I want a GitHub actions as well.
I want to run in CI CD as well.
Right.
And suppose you want to run in database as well.
So you can write MySQL database validations for that I am skipping.
So suppose you know I want to start this only you are a solution and with extensive expertise in selenium
Java rest assured test reporting and GitHub actions right?
Okay now next important thing is task.
Very very important.
What is this?
A person with this role will going to do.
So you need to design and build a framework.
Name.
QA automation.
Framework.
So I'm giving this name.
You can give any name right.
I that adheres.
To industry.
Standards.
Follows best coding.
Practices and is both.
Reusable and scalable.
Right.
And the framework.
So you can, you know, right along with me as well, you know, to practice the free.
I will share this prompt with you at the end of the like, you know, this course.
But yeah, as a practice you should practice, you know, to write as well by your hand and then only
you will understand.
So the framework for support web testing.
Multi resolution testing.
Right.
Whatever you want I want say parallel execution of UI test.
Right.
Then I want API testing as well.
Or say comprehensive API validation I want.
Then I want.
Execution modes.
What are the execution mode?
I want headless or CI.
So in the initially initial time, you know okay what's your framework going to be like.
Right.
And what do you want from your framework.
So you are just documenting everything here for local execution I want in a hybrid mode.
Then CI CD integration I want and what I want is integration.
I want seamless execution on GitHub actions.
Triggered by pull request.
Now here I am using pull request.
You can use like, you know, uh, for example on every merge or say, or every commit or every like,
you know, push to the branch.
So you can add as many tasks you want, like.
But right now I'm just adding for every pull request, you know, whenever anybody is going to raise
a pull request.
So it will execute my GitHub actions.
Now we have defined the role definition and objective.
We have defined the task.
Now comes you know approach.
You can define we can share approach as well right with the ChatGPT like we will I don't want to be
overwhelmed, you know to get everything you know in single uh response because there is a context limit
as well, which, you know, these tools and there is a limit as well.
So we will build this is very important.
We will build the framework.
Iteratively.
Right.
Step by step.
Starting.
From the foundation and adding layers.
Right.
We'll build one component, one layer at a time.
Right.
So initial scope I can also give right.
What is the initial scope right.
Develop a.
Page object model.
Right form.
For web and API test.
Right.
Then include at least two test cases per page.
Slash API category.
From the application under test.
So what is my application under test is.
I'm using this practice website w-w-w dot automation.
Excel sys.
Dot com.
Right.
Implement.
So I would say implement a base page class with the latest and best.
Practices From the so I can use you know.
So.
From there I can go to this site selenium there.
Right.
I can give the references of the link as well.
Right.
I can go to documentation or.
Right.
So this is the selenium official website.
I can go to this documentation.
I can, you know put Java.
So yeah I will use this I can present this this practices from the selenium.
Official website this I have given that.
So implement a base API.
A class with relevant.
Actions following the Rest Assured documentation.
So rest assured documentation.
I can google it, right?
Rest assured.
I can rest assured documentation.
Right.
Okay.
So this is done.
Now.
What we can do is like, you know, outcome.
We can mention outcome like.
Guide the creation of this framework.
Starting.
With a foundational structure and expanding.
Step by step.
Right.
So this is you know, I don't just want to create a framework.
I want to understand that angle.
So that's why this outcome is very important.
Right.
So let me copy this and then enter.
Right.
So this will uh analyze and this will generate the initial structure.
So see it is referring from the internet as well you know.
Great.
Let's begin building the foundation of key automation framework from I step by step, here is the initial
plan for setting up the structure with form.
So for web API layer and base classes.
So see it has given the complete structure.
Like framework structure initial folder layout then base page dot Java.
It has generated the base page class for us with all the basic action right.
Then API as well, right?
It is still generating get post and everything.
So it has a you can add delete method here.
Yeah.
If required we'll add those as well.
And then it's saying next step is implement page object for home page and login page.
So it has understood that you know application.
And it's saying that okay want to generate for home page login page.
What about you know get all product post login add to web test cases.
So it's saying okay what next you want to achieve.
So we'll we'll build this framework gradually right.
So that's for that's all for this lecture.
We'll meet in next lecture.
Thank you.

--- Framework Construction – UI & API ---

Hello friend.
In this lecture we will basically build the framework.
Now, like in the last lecture we have seen that you know, by giving that prompt we will be able to
generate the basic structure of the framework.
Now we will start building that framework.
So this was the response we have received right.
So Q automation framework from AI, I have created the same, you know, uh, project here.
Right.
And it's it has given the complete structure like src main Java base.
So you know we have src main Java right.
It has given like this project.
So I have created one basic project.
You can also create, you know Java maven based project based on your favorite ID.
Like for this demonstration I'm using IntelliJ.
You can use eclipse right or whatever you like.
So this has created this this org.
Org dot example.
So I am deleting this for now.
We don't need this.
So.
And this one also.
Okay.
So we are now let's create the project structure.
So we need a base after Java right.
So what I will do new package base.
All right.
Now in the base we have a base page and base API.
So these are the basically the base classes in having all the common interaction with the web page and
the common interaction with the APIs.
Right.
So we create another base classes base page dot class and then base API.
Dot Java.
Then uh it it is saying, you know, you need to create a pages, uh, like under the same, uh, hierarchy,
uh, pages like package we need to create.
Right.
So let me create.
So it's under the pages under the same as what we have in base.
Right.
Okay.
So right click new package pages okay.
Pages.
We have then APIs similarly right click.
You just need to you know just create like this APIs and utils.
Under jar.
Everything is under this Java base package utils.
And then it is saying enums okay.
And then we have.
Uh under src main this is src main Java.
And we have same test Java test okay.
So it's saying uh, outside, um, Java, you need to create one, you know, directory or his name.
Yes.
Another test, a UI test test.
So yeah, for now, let it be like this.
And we have a resources folder.
Right.
The root root page.
Okay.
We have this resources.
And the resources we have this config dot properties file.
Sorry a directory file.
Okay.
So and then we need this form dot XML is already there.
Right.
And what else we need?
We are, since we are going to use testing as we create this file as well.
So everything it has suggested by itself, we don't need to.
Just plan so it will plan for us is what we have let's say dot GitHub.
So this particular dot GitHub basically use for you know us or for our CI CD.
So this is our directory.
We'll see like how to create that GitHub YAML file.
Right.
And then workflows inside GitHub.
And then run test dot YAML.
Let's create a file.
All right.
So I think we have covered everything.
So next step it's suggesting you know to build the base page API will build gradually you know step
by step.
So let's meet in the next lecture.
Thank you.

--- Build the BasePage and DriverFactory using AI ---

So let's start with the base page and the driver factory.
Right.
So we will say you know.
Okay.
So what we can do now create base page or Java driver factory with best practice of selenium.
For we can again mention like refer I can share this selenium documentation here.
Refer or will or say best practices okay.
And press enter.
So here is a clean and modern implementation of the base page dot Java and Driver factory based on selenium
for best practices incorporating fluent V8 Java generics for type safe page navigation, lazy initialization
via page factory and thread safe WebDriver management for parallel execution.
So see it has given all the you know that required a lot of planning.
a lot of, you know, discussions and a lot of, uh, you know, iterations.
So it has just created all those.
It's about, you know, the how you are giving your, uh, the prompt.
So we'll we already have this base page class.
So if we go inside, um, src main Java base, this is the base page class we already have.
Right.
So what we will do we'll copy this.
So it has created like wait for element wait for clickable click type get text all the basic actions
it has already written.
So we just need to copy and paste.
See it is giving and now it's complaining for import.
So we can do the necessary import right.
So web drivers okay.
So it looks like we have not added the form dot HTML okay.
Um fine.
So what we can do, we can add the or.
Let me ask this.
We can edit the previous prompt as well.
Right now create a base page and driver factory for best practice.
Right.
Also share the latest.
Form dot XML require or this project prefer web or latest.
Dependencies.
Okay, so it will update whatever it has given.
It will update that prompt.
Okay.
Looks like let me send.
Okay.
It's giving.
Sometime it you know So you might face these issues.
So what you can do just paste and send.
So see it's searching the web certainly.
So you know same for best practices page class.
We already have those.
Okay.
Driver factory and Pom.xml right.
So let me first copy this Pom dot XML.
And you know, uh, not from here.
Uh, especially group ID is fine.
Properties.
Uh, let me copy it from here.
So it has all the dependencies like selenium dependency, selenium for right.
It has parameterized all things.
So, so that you know, you can later you want to update your dependency version.
You can update directly from here.
You don't need to update each and every row.
So all the best practices it's already following Right, so we can copy till I'm copying it from properties,
then dependencies.
Right.
And then build.
Okay I still here.
Okay.
So let's save.
And you can see this uh to seeing the maven changes.
Let me run this.
So what it will do it will basically you can see you know it is downloading all the plugins and all,
uh, everything.
Right.
Well.
So it looks like it is done.
Let me import the packages now.
And now see, all the classes are available.
The driver made.
In duration.
No such element exception here.
From selenium.
We want duration.
And left.
No, I think we are good.
Right.
So you can.
Now you see that we have pom.xml created for our project base page class is created for our project.
Right.
And this is the base page class it has shared.
You know the constructor and all.
So that is already done.
WebDriver driver new web driver.
Wait, you know everything is done now.
We will create our driver factory class.
So driver factory class it has created under utils package.
So we have this uh enclose this and we have this uh RC main.
Uh, utils looks like it is in Java.
Okay.
Yeah.
Here it is.
So we can create a class inside this Java class.
Right.
And what else do we need.
We just copy.
So it has everything like local support for creating the you know local copy.
So so that everything its own local copy of uh driver.
So that's why this is for a parallel execution.
You can, you know, you can read read the notes as well.
You can for now, I'm just copying whatever it has.
Right.
Driver.
Okay.
Right now it is complaining.
Import class.
Let me look.
Paste all these packages here.
Okay, now it is done.
So we have created the base class as well.
You know under this the basic base base page class.
And we have a driver factory as well.
Right.
So and we have learned how to create a file using AI.
Right.
So now the framework is taking its shape you know gradually.
Okay.
So we'll see the next things uh in next lecture.
Thank you so much.

--- Build the BaseAPI using Rest Assured Best practices using AI ---

So in this lecture we're building the base class for APIs.
So I have written this prompt that prompt that, you know, build the base API using rest assured best
practices.
And I have shared this rest assured documentation for Java.
And let's see.
So based on the rest assured latest practices, here is the reusable and extensible base API Java class
that abstract request setup authentication and response validation for API testing.
Right.
So it has all the request specification, everything, whatever you know, for the Get request or the
request building building the request, you know, post request, put request delete request.
See everything.
You don't need to build all of this.
You know everything is getting created using AI.
So what you need to do, you know, just copy and paste right.
So this is our base API and.
A base API.
Base okay.
It has.
You see package statement.
Okay.
Let me write it already.
It has done this.
So see everything with all the proper documentation, everything, all falling back standards, everything
you got.
You know, if you are going to create this by manually you would need a.
I would say not if you are expert then only you, you need a 2 or 3 days, you know.
But now in just two minutes you get everything.
You know, the framework is you know, we have created the base page class, we created Pom.xml, we
have created Driver Factory with everything.
And now for the API as well.
We have added all the capabilities, you know, for Get request or Post request or put request and delete
request everything.
Right.
So right.
And then uh, let's see at the end what it has given.
So saying, you know, use IO.
Rest assured rest assured base you are centrally to set up API group use request specification abstraction
to ensure dry structure right each HTTP verb get post, put, delete.
You know it is sharing.
You know all the methods and we can.
Sometimes we call HTTP method or HTTP verbs right in abstract it to reusable method.
Use generic map for dynamic header and query.
Param would like you to sample implementation of API class.
So we will stop here right.
And then we'll basically continue further uh in the next lecture.
Thank you.

--- Creating Page Classes with ChatGPT (Live Demo) ---

Now falling all the best practices.
We will continue, uh, with, uh, the UI, uh, page classes.
Right.
So we are using this website.
Uh.
You can call this.
Yeah, this website automation exercise.com.
Right.
It has all the, uh, different different pages, like product.
It has, it has a card sign up, you know, and it has API testing as well, you know, endpoint.
So we will be, uh, using them as well.
So.
Right.
So this is what, uh, we will be using application.
So what we can say uh, now create now using frameworks.
Uh current.
Frame framework standards.
Stack share the page classes for the application.
Uh URL.
Application.
Uh, we can share the application URL.
Copy and paste.
Right.
And enter.
Let's see what it gives.
So define the page object model classes for the key pages of this website.
This class will encapsulate all the web elements and actions specific to each page promoting reusability
and maintainability.
Maintainability.
So guys these are very important concept.
It is explaining.
So at the time of interview it will say they they might ask right why you need page object model.
So you can say um we need we need page object model because they encapsulate the web element and the
actions specific to each page, promoting reusability and maintainability in your test automation framework.
So as an automation engineer, you should start, you know, uh, speaking in this term.
And if you give answer in this form, this will give a good impression to Interviewer.
So.
Okay.
So continue forward.
Like you know we have this home page login page, product page, contact us page, write test cases
page.
We don't need this.
But yeah it has created okay.
So okay let's start with this home page.
So we'll go to our IDE.
Let me close tab to the right.
So src Java pages.
So first page will create home page dot Java.
Right.
And home page has copy.
Everything right.
It has added see it has identified all the locators.
So I don't need to you know go and check their locators by myself.
It has by itself you know it.
Inspect the Dom of the application and find out all the locators and and the actions performing on the
on those locator that.
So that is you know it is by default.
It is, you know, encapsulating all those features for the home page and it's self extending the base
page class.
So calling all the best practices.
Now next is login page.
And login page copy.
I will just copy paste login page then product page.
And then copy paste.
So if we know the concept right we we can we don't need to create them you know always by ourself right.
So now in the world of AI we don't need them you know to create ourselves you know scratch contact us
page.
Let me write contact us page.
H.
Okay.
Let me refactor it.
As small.
All right.
So now it is matching.
So see all the locator all the method enter subject enter message.
We even don't know right.
It has identify all everything by itself.
Test case page.
We don't know.
So these page object class encapsulate the element and action for their respective pages adhering to
the page object model design pattern.
They promote code reusability and maintainability, making your test automation framework more robust
and scalable.
So it is giving material for you to prepare for your interview, right?
If you explain like this during during the interview, definitely, you know, the chances to clear
the interview basically are more so.
Not saying, would you like me to proceed with creating simple test cases using this page class, or
need assistance with any other component of the framework?
Okay, so, uh, let's take a pause here and we'll meet in the next lecture.
Thank you.

--- Create UI Test Cases with AI ---

So now we will be creating the sample test cases.
So I have written this a prompt like now create the sample test cases using the page classes which we
have already created.
So I don't want to create a test cases for you know, the test cases page.
Right.
So I mentioned that skip that.
Right.
And now it has generated this uh response like below are the sample test test cases using previously
defined page object model classes for home page login page product page and contact us page.
So see it has skipped the test case page, test case page class.
So we will be using Driver Factory to manage the browser session.
Use session annotation for setup, teardown and test execution.
Demonstrate both and everything like whatever we have initially given like for creating the parallel
execution, headless mode, driver factory, everything it has, you know it has in its context.
So driver structure is under the test folder.
We will have this, you know, home page.
And and first it has suggested to create a page test.
The base test will be a parent class for all the tests and all the upcoming test basically will extend
this page based test will have before method for initializing the browser, you know, and maximizing
it all, and then tear down method after method it has.
Right.
So what I did like you know, similarly I have created, uh, in my, you know, uh, under src test
Java, I have created this uh, package called test dot base.
And this base test class I have created, I just copy paste here.
Now let's create the remaining home page test.
Right.
So home page is present in the test, uh, package only.
So I will go here you Java class.
Page test.
Okay.
Uh.
Okay.
It's saying.
Above.
I want to move it to test.
Okay.
So it has done this for us.
Let me copy and paste.
Home page test.
So same is missing package name.
So let me copy paste this package test.
Okay.
Now it is happy.
And now, uh, I close this.
Next is, uh, login page test.
Again we will create a new class Java class login page test copy and paste.
Right.
So it has a missing package.
Package test.
C compilation error code.
And then product page test.
So it has automatically created all the test cases for specific page classes.
Product page test page on different functionalities.
Okay.
And last is contact us page test.
New class contact us page test.
This time copy this and paste here okay so this is also done.
So all the page cases page test classes are done like so each test class extends the base test.
We know okay for usability.
So test methods are isolated meaningful and demonstrate both happy and negative path testing.
Annotation allow parallel execution and flexible grouping.
Ready for integration with CI pipeline via GitHub actions.
So see.
It has summarized summarized that okay, we are following all the industry best practices.
So now it's suggesting that.
Would you like to help confirm test or date of action workflow.
So in the next lecture we will uh basically first configure the test XML and then we'll move to GitHub
action workflow.
Thank you so much.

--- Designing testng.xml using AI ---

So now we will be creating the, you know, the test dot XML file, right.
So for that, uh, we will be, uh, needing the, uh, like the complete structure of the, you know,
test cases.
So I have written this prompt like now configure after, you know, you know, creating the test cases
for UI.
Now I have written this prompt and now configure test dot XML file for UI test cases.
Right.
So all the uh, uh, like UI test cases we have created.
So I have written the prompt like configure test XML file for UI test cases.
So here uh, the so it has given this response like a properly structured test dot XML file that include
the UI test classes for the automation exercise website.
This configuration enable organized execution and is extensible for future additions like API or mobile
test.
So it has given, you know the test example file by looking into the future announcement as well.
Okay.
In case in future we we might need to add uh, some API test or mobile test.
Right.
So this is the structure saying that save this file in your project root and test resource directory.
So see you don't need any other, uh.
References.
All.
Everything.
You know, the complete knowledge.
Uh, assistant.
Uh, you know, I can work for you, right?
So let me create in my project root directory.
So, as we all know that this dot XML file created at the root directory.
So test dot XML.
Already.
Oh it's already exist okay.
So let me copy this first.
Okay.
Formatting and format this okay.
So we have this uh okay.
Suit name is right from I UI suit parallel test thread count has added the support for that as well.
So copy this.
And paste.
Right I think suit is.
Yeah.
Suit tag is the same.
Okay.
Now it is.
See it has basically created this suit with a parallel execution equals to test.
So each test will execute parallelly right and thread count at a time.
Two thread will be invoked by testing and first it will trigger home page test.
Let's see.
It has two tests.
So and then a login page test right.
So it is given like you know invalid or test sign up with existing email.
So you know so I mean it has given by itself.
So we'll enter our actual credentials right.
And then product page test as well.
See every all the references it automatically adds.
So we don't need to add anything by ourselves.
Right.
So see uh this has uh done right.
And so we are able to create successfully create the test dot XML file for all our UI test cases.
Right.
And it is up and running.
So we will, uh, be running as a part of this in a CI, CD, uh, execution till then.
Bye bye.

--- Create API classes with AI ---

Now we'll be creating a page classes for API test.
Right.
So we are using this application called Automation exercise.com okay.
So we will be like uh using this.
And then uh there is uh if you look into this application and go to this API testing.
So there are the list of API like get all product list post to all product list, get all brand list.
For example, if I go to this get all product list and you can see that it has an api url method response
code, what it returns.
Similarly post you know what uh, like response code and everything put.
For example, it has, you know, everything it has given in a nice format way.
We can click this as well and record this response.
Okay, so what we will do using AI, we will generate the page classes for all or some of the API.
Not all you can generate for all.
But yeah, just to demonstrate I will be using a few of the APIs.
So coming back to the uh, ChatGPT and say like create.
API page classes for.
API.
Mentioned in this.
Right.
Uh, we can uh, generate.
API page APIs for.
Okay.
Uh, let's see, uh, how it generate okay.
And press we can mention that, you know, cover get Posed and put API.
Okay.
Let's see.
So it is searching the web and understanding there.
It will basically looking into this application checking different APIs.
So and now it is it has generated like for example based on the API that is provided by automation exercise.
Here are the Java classes using rest assured to get post input endpoints right.
So this is for product API.
Get all product post to all product right.
Similarly, brand API search product API for these classes encapsulate the API interactions promoting
reusability and maintainability.
Each method returns a response object, allowing for flexible assertion in your test cases.
Would you like assistance in creating corresponding test cases?
Yeah, we will move to this, but let's create these, uh, like can package API.
So in our framework right if you go src main Java you know APIs under this API.
We can have this class.
Products API dot Java.
Let me check.
Yeah.
And.
Okay so it's APIs.
Okay.
Now it's fine.
Next is brands API dot Java.
And then search products API dot Java.
Okay, so we have created all these page classes brand, product and search.
And under for example search product.
We have search product without parameter search product.
You know with the Post request you can see it is doing the search right.
So yeah next class we will be creating the test cases.
Right.
Thank you.

--- Create API Test Cases with AI ---

Now creating the corresponding test cases for all these, you know, API page classes.
So what we will do like will ask ChatGPT to create corresponding test cases using test engine.
Create corresponding test cases.
Test classes using test engine and create separate.
Test in G dot XML for API test cases.
Yeah, I am just separating UI and API test cases.
If you want you can club them together as well.
Right.
So it's saying okay uh project structure will be like src test Java test API.
So we have under see.
You know uh, we have this test Java SRC test Java.
Right.
So we have a test.
And you know the UI tests are there.
So now on test we need to create another folder API.
And under this API will have product API test first.
Product API test.
Yes.
So this is not this is APIs.
Okay.
Yeah.
This is done.
Next is an API test.
Just copy and paste the APIs.
And this is all all the errors.
Search product API test.
Okay.
And copy.
Paste.
Okay.
Search is done.
Now this is test an API dot XML.
Cool.
So it has created this file new file just to distinguish from ui, api API.
Right.
Copy this paste or everything is done.
You can navigate to this link.
lane, right?
See, now there are three API test classes created with positive and negative scenario status code Assertionerror
expected behavior.
This test will run at them as a separate suit.
Not saying would you like me to help you to integrate this API UI test issue to GitHub action?
So we'll move to that later.
But let's now try, you know, run one by one.
So first of all I will run the test XML from UI.
So basically this login page test will definitely fail because we are just logging in with some random
user.
Later we can you know, you can parameterize this or whatever you can do.
But as a structure of this framework, which is a scope to create the, you know, high level, uh,
workings, you know, uh, end to end framework, right?
Later you can update it, you know, add lot of things.
But the, the idea is to how to get the running framework where you are, you know, end to end.
If it's failing few test cases, that is fine, but at least they are running.
You know the integration is fine with different different, you know, tech stack like selenium.
Rest assured testing you know everything.
They are working all together as a bouquet and now they are working fine.
So whatever failures are, you know, you can look them, you know, debug them later.
But as, as a, as a end to end framework, it is giving you like, you know, 70, 80% work done.
Right.
Then you can um from add more details like that.
So let me run this.
See it has opened the browser entering some details opening in parallel as well.
See no conflict opening the two instances at a time because we have given the thread count equals to
two.
So all those things, you know, parallel combination execution, browser in action.
Uh, and, and like, you know, your, uh, test and test integration page, object API, all the things
are done using AI only, right?
We have not written a simple single line of code by ourself.
See, it is like saying okay, login page test case is passed as login path and your test invalid is
passed.
Then this is failing.
Uh, not able to locate the X path.
So you know these things we can check, uh, you know, uh, but at least see, out of seven, three
paths, four failed.
But it is running like it is not giving like, uh, that, you know, not able to identify, test and
not able to identify selenium dependency or anything.
Right.
That is fine.
So we'll Will.
We'll see.
And now let's run API test.
Okay.
One two.
Pass one.
Failed two.
Pass two three.
Failed okay.
Three.
Pass three failed okay.
So this is pass.
And this is failed.
Expected for zero five.
All product product list okay.
Let's see in API product list.
So this is the Post request right.
They have written in their document that the response code is 405 okay.
But actual 200 is coming.
So this could be a bug right.
So they have written that the response code should be 405 for this API.
But you know and and around that it has created its uh assertion similarly.
Uh or put API on the brands list.
Let's see.
Put API.
See, the expected code is 405, but actual one is 200.
I don't know why they have given 405 here.
Uh, request method is not supported.
They are saying.
Okay.
And here they have, you know.
But still it is coming 200.
Then that's a bug, right?
If we are sending this as this API and expected is 405, right.
But yeah that is fine.
That's a for a kind of a, uh, you know, uh, false negative as well.
You know, it is saying it's fail, but actually it's a bug in the application too.
So this is the advantage of, you know, creating this framework early so that, you know, you get,
uh, you can test your APIs early while developer is developing or, you know, development environment
or any stage, you know, uh, before QA environment, you can test and give the feedback.

--- Part 1-AI Agent Browser Automation with Playwright MCP ---

Hello friends!
In this tutorial we will learn about the playwright MCP.
So you know recently playwright has come up with this model context protocol server.
You know as per the definition, if you go inside, uh, if you go to this site like github.com slash
Microsoft slash playwright hyphen MCP, right, there is a description that they have given like they
have recently come up with this playwright MCP and that provide browser automation capabilities using
playwright.
Right.
So basically this gives Lem a capability to interact with, you know, different web pages using playwright
and using structured accessibility snapshot, bypassing the need of screenshot or visually tuned model.
So generally if you know, if you take any example of, you know, any uh, tool like, uh, ChatGPT
or Google Gemini or, or basically cloud, right?
So they don't have, uh, you know, anthropic cloud.
So they don't have any, uh, capability as of now to connect, uh, directly, you know, interact
with some web pages or basically connect with your system services or MySQL services or any database
services or API.
Right.
But with this, with the help of MCP.
Right.
So this is the playwright MCP, the, you know, different different uh, tools.
Similarly, along with playwright MCP, there is a selenium MCP.
Also, you know, if you search this MCP implementation of selenium, you know, similarly there is
a MySQL uh, service, my MySQL server.
Right.
So like that, you know, people around the world, you know, have created so many MCP, uh, servers
to connect to that dedicated service.
For example, there would be a different MCP server for MySQL.
Similarly, there will be different MCP server for selenium and similarly uh, to use playwright service.
There is a different MCP server.
So this is a site for a, you know, model context protocol.
So MCP stands for Model Context Protocol.
And this is their, you know, main site model context protocol.io.
I will share all these links in the resources section.
So as per them the definition of MCP is an MCP is an open protocol that standardizes how application
provide context to LM.
So that is the most important definition because LM itself doesn't have a context to, you know, your,
uh, your, your um, services like, uh, SQL server database or, or, you know, selenium or MCP
or browser, right.
So it provide context.
Think of MCP like a USB-C port for AI application.
So like you know LM so it could be right now you're using ChatGPT.
Then you can use a cloud or you can use uh Gemini.
Right.
So think of so LM could be different but just as USB-C provide a standardized way to connect your device
to various peripherals and accessories, and provide a standardized way to connect a model to different
data sources and tools.
So, like, you know, different data sources and tools you can connect, like for example, you can
connect cloud Aiforia in.
For this demonstration, we will be using this cloud a lot.
Right.
So uh, we will be uh right.
So we will basically we'll be connecting this to uh, uh, right.
We will be connecting this to, uh, a browser and open the browser and we will see the demonstration
as well.
So why MCP?
MCP helps you to build agents and complex workflows on top of LLM.
So that is most important.
It helps you to build agent AI agent and complex workflow on top of LLM.
LLM frequently need to integrate with data and tools.
So for example we want to integrate LLM with growing list of, you know uh integration tool like, uh,
databases or browsers or APIs.
So the flexibility to switch between provider and vendor.
So it provides flexibility.
It's a it's an open protocol.
They are or they are saying that it's an open protocol.
So if you look into the general architecture.
So this will be your host with MCP client like cloud or ID or tools.
Right.
There could be many things they could ID like vs code support right now only cloud or uh basically uh
ID vs code only support uh, this MCP right now.
Right.
Or there could be other tool custom tools as well.
So you know those tool basically it's a client server architecture.
So those client basically interact with MCP.
So this MCP basically is a server right.
It send a request in a JSON, you know, and MCP server then interact with that server.
So it could be a, you know, local data source, maybe DB, you know, any browser or any remote internet
service.
Right.
So it could be on X exposed on some APIs.
Right.
You know you send a request in JSON and you know, the NTP server basically interact with that particular
service and get a response.
And then and server knows that okay.
Uh, right.
What type of format this, uh, client will understand.
And in that format it will send a response.
So it's a client server architecture, right.
So as they have explained MCP host program like Cloud Desktop or ID or AI tool that want to access data
through MCP, right?
MCP client.
This client basically protocol client that maintain one on one connection with the server.
So MCP servers are like a lightweight programs at the end when you give the configuration.
And we'll see how to give that configuration in the client.
And you know when you start the service.
So it basically start the server which basically listens to the requests from the client.
So lightweight program that each expose specific capability through the standardized model context protocol.
So this they are they are the client and server are connected to some protocol.
The protocol are standard rules through which they know that okay, Amqp client knows that MCP server
understand request in this format only, and MCP server knows that the client understand the response
in that format only.
So they are bind by some protocol.
So that protocol is called MCP protocol.
Local data sources, your computer file, you know the local data sources.
They can connect to your local computer file database service.
That MCP server can securely access remote services.
External system available over the internet through API.
Right.
The MCP server can connect to.
So you know that is what they have explained.
And if you go inside their GitHub page as well, you know, they have they have like uh, doing a lot
of changes and, you know, updating and upgrading it.
So they have given a definition like a model context protocol server for the playwright MCP.
I'm talking, you know, that provide browser automation capability using playwright.
This server enable GNM to interact with web pages through structured accessibility snapshot, bypassing
the need for screenshot or visually tuned model.
So key features are like you know, they are fast and lightweight uses playwright accessibility tree
not pixel based input LM friendly so no visual model needed.
Operate purely on structured data.
Deterministic tool application avoid ambiguity common with screenshot based approaches.
So that is a like.
We don't need to go into that much detail, but we understand in high level like how MEP server client
server architecture work and how they access the different services right now.
Uh, this is the main thing.
Like to get started we need a node server node JS 18 or newer should be there.
So basically these server are built based on node JS right.
So they need node JS should be installed in your local.
So you can go and download node JS.
You can you know just type download.
node JS.
So you get this link and you know, based on your operating system, if, whether from my mind's windows
then you can install the installer and then like uh simple installation.
Similarly for Mac Linux, whatever operating system you need to install this, uh, this uh uh, the
node JS.
Right.
And once the Node.js is installed, you know, they have some like okay for installing, you want to
configure it in VS code on some, some LLM.
Right.
So I want to configure this in.
So I am using this uh LLM right.
So here like uh I will be going if this is a cloud desktop, uh I have installed.
So you, you can also install this cloud desktop.
Right.
And you can click on this link.
So download cloud and desktop and it will you know you can download the installer and it will install.
Once it's installed you can log in and you get this message.
All right, so what?
Next thing you need to do is you need to copy this configuration.
Uh, you know, the getting started with, uh, playwright MCP server with your client.
So for me, this cloud LM is client.
So I will go to the file settings.
And in settings go to developer.
Right.
And here like first time you will not see.
So it will ask to create a configuration.
So and you know you will create and then you it will be saved.
So if I edit config basically it it will create this cloud hyphen.
So underscore desktop underscore config JSON file automatically.
And here in this file basically uh if I edit it again right.
Uh open edit with notepad here, you know uh, the same thing I have copied.
Right.
So once that is copied and then you can restart your plot.
Right.
And once that is done, it will go to the Uh, this, uh, certain tools.
Right?
See, you are getting this play, right.
So you're getting 25 playwright tools, right?
The browser underscore.
Close browser.
Underscore.
Resize.
Browser.
Underscore.
Console.
Messages.
Browser.
Underscore.
Handle dialogue.
All these tools you are get list of tools you are getting right.
Because you have you know given that configuration inside.
And now LM knows that you know, using these tools.
Uh, if I got any, you know, um, because LM has a capability of processing the natural language.
So you will give we will give a plain English instruction.
Right.
And LM has a capability to, you know, um, to, to comprehend that, uh, plain English language.
And they will know that, okay, for, uh, for that particular.
Suppose I want like, uh, navigate to this URL so they know that for navigation I need to use some
you know browser underscore navigate right.
How they will know we will see Like so.
If you go inside, uh, say any say this playwright MCP.
Right.
And if I go inside SRP, generally you don't need to do.
But just for your understanding, I'm explaining.
So these are, uh, the different, different tools.
Right.
Uh, we have this tool like, you know, navigate, for example.
So when lm basically, uh, get this instruction that, okay, I need to navigate to specific browser.
So they basically, uh, have access to these tools.
Right.
Which we have already set up a configuration and using these tools.
Right.
They know that.
Okay.
Which tool uh, I can use for this particular, uh, you know, English text.
So for each tool there is a description like these are the navigate tool.
And it has like for example you know description navigate to URL.
So LM will read this description and comprehension.
They have a synthetic syntax understanding.
You know syntactic Understanding they can comprehend the text.
You know, similar semantic meaning they can get from the text.
You know, for example, navigate and login and open the URL, right?
Open the URL and navigate to a URL.
They will they love has the capability.
Capability that they both are the both these two statements are same right.
So they will read this description and they know that okay.
Navigate to URL I need to use this browser underscore navigate tool right.
Similarly for screenshot they know that okay.
For screenshot take a screenshot.
They know browser underscore take screenshot I need to.
So they are different tools right.
So be with with by giving that configuration and setting up that configuration.
Now our cloud has access to all those playwright based tools.
And now uh, we will um, see a demo.
Right.
So suppose I am going to use this, uh, demo site from Source demo.
So I will say, uh.
Login, not login.
So first navigate to URL this login with username standard user.
And you know.
So I am giving instruction only in plain English.
No I'm not writing any code for this right.
And once it's login let me check it by myself first.
Okay.
Um suppose I want to add this jacket.
And.
To.
Verify
A successful addition in are so this for now like this is my test.
Once it will add into car, it will verify that it is added successfully or not.
All right.
So, uh, this is uh, our use case and basically we will be using, uh, this use case to uh, basically
uh, perform through uh, like using uh, from uh, cloud tool and, and basically, you know, using
uh, playwright MCP server.
Right.
So I will send an instruction.
So, uh, okay.
That is fine.
Yeah.
We enter this.
Looks like it is processing some fields.
Mm, I don't know.
Looks like it is fine for now.
Let me open it again.
So, you know we have just given the configuration.
So that's fine.
Okay.
Looks like some issue.
Let me check and we'll see.
Uh, the execution part in the next video.
Thank you so much.

--- Part 2-AI Agent Browser Automation with Playwright MCP ---

All right.
So in this tutorial we will see.
We'll continue with uh the previous one.
So there are some, you know, uh CPU and memory issue in my system.
So I have restarted and now we can see the cloud and we are using the same instruction.
Let me enter it.
So it will open the browser and access this site.
So then next step is to you know login with username and password.
Right.
So it will login.
Open the site.
And username and password.
See it has entered username.
Now it will enter the password.
So it will automatically detect the locators.
You know we need to add detect like username and password.
There is a login button.
You know because alarm has that capability right.
So LM can uh basically you know uh preview and basically understand the plain English text.
So it has added this, uh, source lab fleece jacket inside the card.
Right now it will verify whether it has added.
So now I will.
So what it is doing now I will add the source lab.
I can see that card now shows one item visible.
And so it is verifying that from here.
So it has performed all the same.
Perfect.
Let me summarize what I have done.
I successfully login login with this username password.
Added this item to the cart.
Verified successful addition to the cart.
The shopping cart icon showed one item when viewing the cart content, it's showing that what all details,
but the task has been completed successfully.
And source lab jacket has been verified to be in the cart.
So that is the magic of using lab with MVP server, right?
So this is how you know, everything is automated.
You know, just, uh, plain English.
We have given a command and it has automated everything by itself.
Thank you so much.

--- Resources ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Must Know Use Cases of Github CoPilot for SDET's ---

Hello friend.
In this tutorial we will go through how we can use GitHub Copilot in VSCode, right?
So as you can see GitHub Copilot official page for VSCode, it is written that GitHub Copilot is your
AI pair programmer tool in Visual Studio Code, right?
It act as a pair programmer.
So you know, as an automation engineer, whenever we write any utility or any method, you know, when
we create a script.
So we do a peer review, right?
You know, pair programming we do, we discuss and you know, we we do a peer programming and you know,
or we do a like, you know, understand with other you know and to a pair programming like, you know
discuss and conceptualize the thing and then start implementing it.
Similarly it is your kind of a buddy you can understand in your tool in Visual Studio Code.
You get you know which which will help you to get the suggestions as you type in or you know, as a
natural language, plain English language in chat or about, you can ask about your code, explain about
your code edit, you can edit your code.
So like this.
All all of these tasks you can achieve using GitHub Copilot.
So uh, by default in VS code GitHub Copilot is not there.
You need to install it.
So for for that you what you need to do go to extensions and here type GitHub.
So once you type GitHub you will get two options GitHub Copilot like this and GitHub copilot chat.
So you both of these needs to be installed.
Make sure you know the publisher of of this uh do these two extensions are GitHub right.
Official.
These are the two official uh, extension you need to install.
Right.
Once you install it, uh, that it will automatically ask you to log in in your GitHub copilot.
Sorry GitHub account.
So make sure before you install these two extensions, you have a, you know, valid GitHub account
where you, uh, have, uh, like, you know, uh, so you have a login in GitHub account so you can
create a git if you don't have, you know, create a GitHub account.
And through extension it will take you to GitHub account, uh, allow for validation and, you know,
uh, permission, it will ask for permission.
And you and you, when you approve it, uh, it is up and running in your code, right.
So what you can do, uh, for example, let me close this for now.
Uh, so for example, any code you have, like for example, I have this code, uh, which we have generated,
like, you know, uh, using JNI, it's a playwright based framework using Python.
So how we can use, uh, GitHub copilot like this.
Suppose this is my project I'm currently working on.
So to open, uh, the GitHub copilot chat, I will type Ctrl shift I in window.
Right.
It will, uh, open this window here.
Right.
Or you can open from this option as well.
Open it.
Right.
This will open.
And here you have this option called agent.
So for chat, uh, you need to change it to ask.
Right.
And then uh, once you type like at the rate, uh, you'll have so many option at the GitHub terminal
VSCode workspace.
So choose at the workspace because workspace is, you know, your entire project.
So you can ask any question for this entire project.
And GitHub Copilot will have a access or have a context of your current project.
Right.
So this is about the installation.
Once the installation is done, then, uh, let's see what all we can do.
Uh, with GitHub copilot.
First of all, uh, say uh, I want to, uh, say I am getting, you know, you are running your script
in some, uh, CI CD pipeline and some exhibition field, for example.
Right.
And it is failing for, say, some of the locator is missing or something like that, you know, for
this method.
Right.
So you copy it from the logs.
Right.
And you can ask like uh, for example where is this method.
Right.
Okay.
And press enter.
So you ask where this method exists in your project.
Right.
So it will analyze all the context and will say okay this method is defined in test under Score Home
dot Pi as a standalone test function.
Right.
So you can click on this link and it will take you to that method.
And you can, you know, review and check the locators and everything functionality where particular
line.
It failed.
Right.
So this is how you can search find a method definition using language.
And also, uh, for example, uh, you can you have this, you know, here you can explain you have
this co-pilot, you know, when you do a right click and do a right click.
And this star options are coming.
So you can click modify using preview using Copilot you can do a review as well.
For example, you know um this is very handy specifically review using copilot.
You know when you have uh when you are reviewing your PR, you know, not your PR, you know, you are
uh, as a automation lead, you are working and right, you are reviewing your, uh, we have to review
the team's, uh, script or whatever code they have written.
Right.
So you what you will do, you will, uh, check out, um, that, uh, branch, right?
That, uh, which is going to be merged.
And, you know, you know that, okay, this method has been added.
So what you can do, you can just.
Right, you know, select this.
Click on this icon and review using copilot.
So copilot will review this.
Uh so it's currently reviewing it and you know it will give you the suggestions like okay, uh, what
all best practices you can follow or you know, what else you can do in this.
So this is, you know, kind of an optimization activity you can do, uh, for, uh, the code.
It's right now it's doing and see it is giving you suggestion like the test function name.
This is descriptive but could be shortened for readability while maintaining clarity.
Example.
You know it is giving uh like you can rename the method name for.
Right now I have this test click Product Redirect to product.
But it's saying uh, instead of this uh you should change to test product redirection.
So it is first apply and go to next.
Suppose I can discard this.
So suppose I say apply and go to next next suggestion.
It's saying the assertion assert product in page URL may fail if the URL containing query parameter
additional path segment.
Consider using stricter checks such as verifying the exact URL or using the regex pattern.
So see here I have just used the exact, uh, right, you know the exact URL, but what if URL has some
uh.
It's saying that it has some, you know, query parameter or something.
So it's saying instead of using directly this page URL, you should import this library from Python
regex and use this.
So this is, you know, you you can give this suggestion in, uh, you know, uh, PR review, you know,
uh, while you are reviewing the PR, you can copy this suggestion, right.
You can see if you in chat panel or you can, you know, discard or you can copy this suggestion and
paste it in PR and, you know, you can ask the team member to fix this.
Then say I apply and go next.
The test function like a docstring explanation.
Its purpose.
Adding a brief docstring would improve readability and documentation.
So suppose, you know, um.
Uh.
It's saying that you should have some docstring.
The.
What is the purpose of this method?
So suppose I apply and go next.
Right.
So this is, uh, what digitalizing the homepage object for each test may be unnecessary.
So now suppose I don't want to go with this.
So I discard and go next.
You know, the method will invoke without ratifying the success of a.
That is fine.
So we understood the process.
Right.
Uh, this is, uh, what, uh, we can achieve.
Um, it has not import that, uh.
Right.
So, uh, this is what we can do or like, you know, I'm just giving a suggestion like, this is,
uh, right now it's giving some library issue so we can just revert it back.
And just to explain this, you know, this way you can basically do a code review of your script and
you know you can achieve this.
And next is using copilot.
You can, you know, debug some uh automation script error using I suggestion.
Right.
So for example, uh.
Like for example it is giving some error here in the code.
Right.
So I would say uh I can ask like, you know, fix the error in this file.
Right.
So it will generate a new file.
And basically it will say rename the to this to match your earlier reference.
Added a missing space after the comma.
Right.
So what I can do I can copy this and paste it here and save.
Right.
So all errors now is gone.
Right.
So this way you can, you know, fix the error.
And suppose there is a some you know, implementation in existing automation project.
You want to add uh say like uh doc string, you know auto uh, you know, one way we have the auto generated
doc string, right.
We saw but now you want to generate a doc string for a specific method or some files, right?
So you can say at the rate workspace, add doc string or test homepage.py, you can mention, you know,
as suppose all the pages, uh, not all the tests.
Sorry.
Uh, let's do it in all the, uh, page classes.
Right.
Part page.
Contact page.
Or can add here as well.
Start page or contact page and we can add you can click here and add home page.
So suppose in these three class I want to add docstring for page classes and press enter right.
So it is collecting the information and it is adding page object for the you know this is this is how
it is adding the docstring.
Right.
See this way you know you can update your classes.
You know.
So you don't need to go to individual class and write it yourself.
You can, you know, automate this task through GitHub Copilot.
And it will add the docstring.
So there could be a you know, it's been asked from the leadership that you need to add documentation
in your automation, right?
And for that, you need to add some docstring in your test method.
So you can achieve this by using a GitHub copilot.
And there is another use case.
Suppose uh, another could be, you know, your test cases.
You have for example, this is the test case, uh, say uh, product test case.
Right.
And you want to generate the, uh, generate like a manual test case for this automation test case.
Like what?
All tests, uh, what all test steps you are performing in your test script.
So, uh, you you want to, uh, basically nowadays, you know, uh, during while we are, uh, like,
submitting the PR so it it been asked, like, you know, like you should add, uh, some, uh, you
know, English, uh, description of your, uh, test cases, like what your test cases are doing.
Right.
So you can add all those things here So you can ask the, you know, GitHub copilot like to generate
the manual test cases for this, uh, test script.
You know, you can press enter.
So it will generate, uh, the manual description.
So here the manual test.
See it has generated how beautifully it has generated the test cases like whatever.
Uh, like for example, verify product list is visible or verify search functionality.
So these are the two validations we are doing.
And with the test step and expected result it has listed down right.
So we can use and you know we can copy this entire description and paste it in our PR so that anyone
who is reviewing our PR basically knows that, okay, what this test script is doing, what this test
case is doing right in automation.
And you know, this will also act as a documentation for this.
So this is again a very important feature.
You should be knowing.
And next one is you know, you can do uh for example let me close all this.
Yeah.
Let it be like test product.
So suppose uh, there is some other option like as well, like, you know, at the rate terminal, right.
For example, uh, I forgot, you know, how to execute this test from the terminal.
So, you know, you can write like, you know, so make sure you have selected this drop down, drop
down at the, you know, ask from this drop down and you can ask like, for example, uh, how to run
this test in terminal or in a headless mode, right?
I don't know, like how to run the test.
Uh, or playwright test from terminal in headless mode so I can ask GitHub copilot to generate a terminal
command.
So by the terminal it will understand.
Okay.
The context I'm asking for the terminal command.
So it will generate the terminal command.
So see it has generated the terminal command for me and the specific test you know it has okay.
Uh for example it has generated okay.
Test command that for a specific test case you can run headless using my, uh, project.
So suppose, uh, I am new to this project, and I don't know, like what all, all, uh, configuration
and, you know, and convention, this, uh, automation project is following.
So.
But I know that, you know, uh, we can run the playwright and pi test from the terminal.
So without going into the actual code and understanding that is important as well.
But, you know, at least initially, I can ask I can, you know, review the automation framework,
right.
The existing automation framework, how to how we can run it in a headless mode.
So this will, you know, end up at using the project context and it will generate the command.
And you can check and run it like you know.
So this will comes a very handy.
Suppose you are basically reviewing and working on an existing framework which you don't have much knowledge
about.
But this way you can get and you know, then GitHub copilot can act as a, as your, as your body,
you know, as a peer programmer with you and, you know, help you to perform all these actions.
So we have seen like you know, what are the different things we can do with GitHub Copilot, like finding
the method definition, optimizing the code and, you know, generating the terminal command, generating
the doc strings, generating the manual test cases, and debugging the errors.
So you can use all of these.
Right.
And thanks for that.

--- Chrome Dev Tool AI for QA and Dev ---

Hello friends!
In this tutorial we will learn how we can use Chrome Dev Tool AI features in our day to day uh, QA
work.
Like, you know, as a QA we do.
We write test cases, we understand API, we understand the functionality, we write our test automation
script.
So how we can use Chrome dev tool for for our for this particular task.
Right.
And you know, there are multiple tasks and then you can like uh explore more.
I will share few major, uh items or tasks that you can perform using AI feature inbuilt AI feature
of Chrome dev tool.
So for that you need to open the chrome.
And you know just for this demonstration purpose, I have, I have I'm using this, uh, you know,
demonstration uh, dummy site or for test automation practice site like open source demo or MLive.com.
Right.
You can also open this and test for, uh, use it for test automation Formation practice, right?
And for that, once you right click and click inspect.
Right.
So it will open the.
Depth tool.
Right.
And for that like you need to go to settings.
The first time you need to go to settings and select this AI innovations.
Right.
And here you see these three uh you know radio buttons right.
So you need to enable them toggle them.
Toggle buttons are there.
You need to enable them.
Uh but make sure that you know whatever side you are using.
So in fact, like, you know, Google is also saying that these feature use generative AI and may provide
inaccurate or offensive information that doesn't represent Google views, right?
These features, and also very important that these features and relevant data to Google.
Google collect this data and feedback to improve its product and services with the help of human reviewer.
Avoid sharing sensitive or personal information.
So this is very important.
So please before using this feature, please check with your company or network administrator that whether
you are allowed to use this right, or if you're using a, you know, a website or an application where
there is no sensitive, uh, you know, sensitive or, uh, you know, the data that you should not
be sharing with, you know, you should not be sharing with outsider.
Right?
There is.
So make sure that whatever site you are using it should it should not have a sensitive data.
Right.
And you should have all the permission to use, uh, this feature.
So once you have, uh, once you're clear about all these things, then you can proceed further.
So once you enable all these things, so you are good with this and you can, you know, go to you will
see in the console AI systems.
Right.
And you can uh, we can like if you are not seeing this somehow for example.
Right.
Go to console and click on, you know, this issue or maybe whatever this particular level you can click
so might be for your side.
It's two issues or one issue no issue.
But click over here.
So you will get this AI assistance here right.
And now uh, suppose uh first thing, uh, what I can do is, you know, this is a login page, right?
So what I can do, I can log in here.
So I will say login.
It's a default password admin admin 123.
Right.
And then I click on let me go to network tab.
Yeah.
And click on login.
Right.
So I'm able to login as you can see.
Right.
And I can say for example this is the validate API with having a status of 303 or 2 right.
I can select this.
And I can suppose I am not sure about this API right.
What I can do.
First of all, as a QA write.
I can write like, you know, explain.
This API.
So I click that API.
So it has a context.
It is there you know.
And then I can explain this API just like this.
So now you see like it will give you it will analyze the API response request format headers everything.
And you know it will give you the complete information about that API.
So you can view that this network request to this URL.
And suppose request used to validate user authentication like after a login attempt.
So the content type this is, you know, form URL encoded indicate that the request payload contain
the form data.
That means credential.
We can check that you know in payload you can see it's a form data right as a username and password.
So like that you know you you get understanding of the API like this.
So it's a complete Read documentation.
Suppose you are a developer and you know you are.
You have you are building one application, one API, right?
You're working on an API, right?
And you have tested it and now it's working fine.
You need to create a documentation for your API, right.
Ah, swagger documentation or you know, whatever documentation your company allows, right.
You can ask this tool to create documentation and then you know you can verify it and it looks good.
You can use that documentation.
It saves you a lot of time right.
So as a as a QA, you you can explain understand the API and get an understanding of the API.
Like what is the complete structure of the API is right.
Whether it's a Post request, what type of uh payload it accept it, expect a form URL encoded, you
know, content type and the 302 font status by 302 found.
Because status code signifies it's a redirection, it is redirecting to some other page or successful
login.
Right.
We know that, you know, all, uh, all the status codes starting with three, three, you know, three
x all these, uh, status codes are for redirection.
Analyze the timing, the waiting for the server response.
So it is analyzing the timing of the server as well.
You know, it gives you a non-functional attribute as well the performance of the API.
This could indicate server side processing time for validating credential database lookup and setting
up the user session.
While not excessively long, it's the primary area of potential optimization on the server, so it is
giving you suggestion as well.
The initiator chain shows that the request triggered a cascade of subsequent requests to load the dashboard.
You know, because it is redirecting to the dashboard page.
So might be that might be a case.
It is taking a more time.
But you know, you get an idea.
So you can as a QA you can analyze as a developer, you know, you both can sit and analyze the your
API and, you know, you get a response.
So this is one of the most important use case where you can get an explanation of the API, get an understanding
of the API, and, you know, check the bottlenecks.
Now, uh, moving ahead, what else you can do is, you know, you can say, for example, say, uh,
okay, uh, write.
Functional and non-functional test cases for this API.
So now you've got an understanding of the API.
Now you want to create a test case.
So see it will create uh, all the functional and non-functional test cases for you.
Like for example functional testing valid credentials, invalid credential missing credential.
You know, it has given a high level scenario log account CSRF protection.
You know it.
If you read all this thing your understanding will also increase.
Now non-functional testing consideration.
Load testing.
Stress testing.
Authentication.
Bypass attempt to bypass authentication mechanism.
Input validation test for injection vulnerability.
Security testing.
It is testing usability testing.
Compatibility testing.
Right.
So it has given you all the functional and non-functional use cases as well.
So now for this API you got understanding.
You got functional and non-functional test cases created for you.
And now suppose you want to write a you know some automation script for this.
So how you will write so you can say like.
Write Java.
And suppose you are using Java.
And rest assured you should base.
Test using page object model for this API.
Let's see what it gives.
So we want to write the page object model for this right?
So right now it has given me an explanation and at the end it has created the, you know, the conceptual
snippet.
So it is giving a kind of a placeholder.
But this is a very good starting point for you as well.
You know, you get API and all that integration connection points, you know, dependencies, base URL,
everything it is explaining.
Like for example here it has created the class, uh, login page class.
You know, for a page class it has created and you know, it is creating all the like, uh, response
given.
And then, you know, using the rest API like given when and then passing the, uh, base URI, all
the necessary headers and get the response, you know, you get a good, uh, starting point where you
can then create that, you know, this is your test, then this is the page class, and then it is created
the test pages as well, in which you can place in your test class, like a successful login using page
object.
Then you can click call the login method with valid username and password.
Similarly invalid login.
So this has given you a code snippet as well for that particular API.
So first you started with explanation.
Then you go to test manual test cases functional and non-functional.
And then it has created the code in Java.
And rest assured for you.
So suppose you are using Python right.
So we can say write test auto mission.
Mission permission code using.
Python and say playwright I'm using.
Right.
Let's see.
So it will create a you know.
So see it has created a Code snippet.
Test successfully.
Login.
So first of all it is logging you know.
And then it is basically capturing, you know, it has created the complete playwright code in Python
for you right.
And you can see how helpful it is.
Like, you know, you can inspect your APIs like this.
And you create a automation code for this.
So this is the power of AI.
So I think this is a very good tool.
If you are allowed to use then you know you should be consider this tool as well right.
And I so suppose another example is you know I'm using suppose this is a website where we have a, you
know, some broken links.
Right.
This is I, I found one site where it has a, you know, they have clearly mentioned that this is a
broken link or practice website.
Right.
So uh, if we click on this link, you know, we get a, you know, broken link error, right.
So once again I inspect on this and open the, you know, AI systems tool.
Right.
Go to network and click on broken.
Suppose this is your application under test you are testing.
And on clicking you got 404 error right.
So what you can do select this and you can mention it is giving like why this request is failed.
It is giving you auto suggestion why this network request takes so long.
Why is there any security header present?
Why this request is failing?
Suppose I ask question this and send the request.
Right.
So it is saying the Get request is attempting to retrieve the HTML content of this page.
The request is failing because it received it received 404 not found status code.
This indicates that server could not find the requested resource at a specified URL.
In simpler terms, the page you are trying to access does not exist on the server, so it is giving
you like why you are getting this error.
The timing information says that you know, then it goes to the timing and all other details.
But yeah, we got an idea like 404.
We know that it's a resource not found error, but you know, it is saying that that whatever request
you are requesting, that resource doesn't exist on the server.
That's why it is failing.
So you can write this as in your bug report as well, right.
So let's see, uh, if it allow us to do that.
Okay.
Create let's say uh JIRA supported bug report for this error.
Now you want to add a tester.
You want to log a bug for this API right.
See it has written like.
You can, you know, uh, the it has started from here.
All right.
Title 404 error for broken link on this site.
Right project you can mention issue type you know summary when attempting to access a specific page
intended to demonstrate properly.
That is as a part of testing, you know it has added all the steps to reproduce expected.
Navigate to this page.
Click on this link, observe the browser response and network request detail on the dev tool.
Expect the server should not return actual behavior.
Technical details everything it has added right.
Complete bug report it has created for you.
It saves a lot of time as a QA, right if you start using it.
So uh, as I mentioned, if it's allowed in your company, right, then you can consider this tool and,
you know, to increase your efficiency as a developer or as a QA, you can, you know, you can consider
this tool.
I think it's very, uh, time saving tool for you.
Right.
So I think, uh, whatever we have covered in this tutorial, it is helpful for you.
Thanks for your time.

--- Part1_PDF Comparison Using Python ---

This lecture, you will learn how to compare the textual content of the two pdf file using Python.
So this is very useful for QA team or a document reviewer, or as automation lead or, you know, working
as an automation engineer who need to validate PDF output across versions or, you know, different
environments.
So there might be a use case where you need to review or you need to compare the two versions of the
PDF.
Right.
So suppose one PDF before upgrade and another PDF generated after a, you know, product upgrade.
So you need to validate the two PDFs.
So like this I have two PDF in front of me.
Sample one PDF and sample two PDF.
So both are identical.
But the difference is that you know, the banana quantity in this PDF is eight, and the banana quantity
in this PDF is ten.
So how to validate this.
So first of all we will learn how to validate this through Python.
Right.
So because that is the foundation for us, and then we will extend this with exciting new era of AI
where we will use we will integrate in our Python utility AI, we will integrate and we will summarize
that okay, for business user, for leadership, that how we can summarize the differences whatever
we have fetched.
Okay.
Interesting.
So let's move on and proceed further.
So in this lecture you as I mentioned you will learn how to extract the text from the PDF using a very
exciting library of Python called py PDF.
Right.
And how to compare the two PDFs line by line, text by text, and how to detect and print meaningful
differences so it will print the differences, uh, like, uh, generally when we print the differences
in when we do a difference.
So we'll get a similar differences in the two file, for example, where the line original line is where
the modified line is, right, what text contain.
So we'll see all the practical example and how to build this into a command line utility.
Suppose we want to build this in a command line.
We can pass the two file as a path.
Right.
And we can integrate it with uh, you can, you know, extend it and even integrate it with your CI,
CD pipeline and whatnot.
Right.
So for that, it is always good to convert it into a command line utility.
Right.
So the prerequisite for this is, you know, you need to, uh, basically, uh, have this library installed.
As I mentioned, you need to pip install uh, I PDF, right.
You need to write this.
And once you click enter.
So for me it's already installed.
So it's giving like a requirement.
Already satisfied.
This version is already there in my system.
So uh that is fine.
And another library we will be using is diff lib.
But that is a as a part as part of the standard Python standard library so that we don't need to install.
Installed.
So that's it.
Only one library.
We need pi pdf and once it is installed.
Right.
You are good to proceed.
So I have already created this utility to save the time.
And I will explain what this utility is doing line by line so that, you know, you will, uh, get
understanding.
So first of all, uh, once you install this Pi PDF so you can have this, you know, uh, uh, the
package called Fitz.
So Fitz is a import name for Pi PDF, which helps you to extract text from the PDF pages.
So, uh, when we do import.
So it's an import name they have given.
Uh, so library name is pi PDF.
But when you import it you will import it as Fitz.
That's please remember this.
And in other library you need to have is diff lib.
So diff lib is used to generate a line by line comparison similar to how you know how git difference
work.
So this will work similarly Okay.
And next is, uh, we'll have this function called uh extract text function.
Right.
So this extract text function, what it does, it basically uh accepts a PDF file, you know, and this
basically open the PDF file using this open function.
It will open the PDF file.
Right.
We read page by page.
As you can see it has a for loop reading it as a page by page.
And I iterate through each page extracting that text right and return the full text as a single string.
So here we are basically converting a PDF into a single string.
Okay.
Then uh, we have this, uh, compare uh, like we have this compare text function.
Right.
Compare text function.
Expect two PDF files.
Basically.
Again it is uh it is what it is doing.
Like it is extracting the text from the above function, converting into the, uh, you know, serialization,
converting into the string text, one and another is converting into another text two, and then it
is using the diff library here like you know it converting uh, basically using this diff library,
this function unified difference and passing this t1 and T2 here.
So what it does like basically it use this function to return line by line changes.
So that is what it does.
It diff from this library using this function unified difference.
Uh it basically returns the line by line changes in these two strings.
So it will give you whatever the line added, whatever the line removed what are the lines change.
Right.
So the kind of, uh, output format is, you know, you will get uh, basically in the get difference,
like, okay, what are the file original line is what is the modified line is here.
You'll see in the console when we run this.
And another uh, function is we have this compare PDF.
So this is a high level wrapper to compare two PDFs.
So basically we are calling this function.
And this is what calling the compare text and compare text internally calling this abstract text.
So it's very simple like you once you will understand.
So in abstract lecture as I mentioned we are just reading the PDF file, opening the file, reading
it into a text and converting it to a string.
Then compare text basically, you know, reading both passing, we are passing the two PDF path, converting
into the two strings.
And then, you know, finding the difference in this two strings line by line.
Right.
And then compare PDF.
If I either mentioned it's a high level wrapper, it's a kind of a, you know, wrapper function which
orchestrate call to a text comparison logic.
So our text comparison logic resides here.
It is just a orchestrator.
Like we are just calling this from the main right.
And we are passing the two PDF file.
And it just orchestrated orchestrating the execution and comparison logic.
All right.
And then return the text difference.
Whatever output of this function, it returns this.
So here we are returning it.
And next is command line interface.
Right.
So this is what we are running this like not as a module.
We are just running this directly right.
So that's why we have this name equals to main.
And then we are passing here a compare PDF.
Right.
Uh, this uh we are expecting uh, this function.
Right.
Whatever this is uh, this um, utility to expect these two function to arguments.
We are accepting two arguments here.
Right.
And then uh, right.
So see this compare PDF.
This is calling this function.
And we are passing this two argument which we are uh passing from system.
So it will accept it will pass first argument which is the first PDF file path.
Second argument which is the second PDF file path.
And it will pass to this compare pdf function and this compare pdf function will compare text and then
compare text will call the extract text.
So this is how we can do it will print whether identical or not identical.
So right I can write it.
But you know I just write it before just the purpose is to understand the concept.
Right.
This type of utility we don't write on on daily basis.
But you should know what is and what is our approach and why we are writing this.
So suppose I want to execute this okay.
Right.
This is my PDF.
And this is a two sample files which I, uh, just show you like, you know, sample sample one and
sample two dot PDF.
So, uh, they both have, uh, in the same location where this, uh, dot py file is right.
Now, let me make this window bigger and then enter.
See, it is giving, uh, this type of modification, like I generally this type of uh, a message we
receive when we have a right.
When we have, uh, when we do a great difference.
Right.
So it line by line, it giving a different like you know it is giving like, you know here the quantity
of banana is changed like minus eight you know, minus eight.
And then uh, it is giving, you know, um, has been changed to ten plus ten.
So that means the quantity of banana got changed.
Right.
You can see eight and ten here.
So this is what it is uh highlighting.
And now so you know that now we how we can do the comparison logic.
You know, automated regression.
You can add this to, you know, for a PDF report or legal document audit or invoice comparison for
accounting or ensuring the localization strings have not been changed.
So all of these, uh, you know, this utility is fast, lightweight and doesn't require converting
PDF to images, which is like perfect for content validation.
So so this is what we can use.
And you know we can again run it multiple times.
And it will you know always showing this.
But this is a very, you know, technical output.
Uh, you know, we cannot show this output to, uh, business people or your leadership.
So I mean, so right, so how we can present it in a, in a more, uh, more presentable way or how
we can derive insight and derive how we can summarize this output.
So there we will use AI, right?
How to, uh, basically find out the differences.
Like we can integrate any LLM tool like Google Gemini to auto summarize the changes for us.
Right.
So there uh, we can use uh AI.
So in next tutorial we will see how we can integrate Gemini to create a summary of the file changes.
Thank you so much.

--- Part2_PDF Comparison Using AI and Python ---

Welcome back.
So in this lecture we will see how we can integrate.
Or we can summarize the PDF differences using Google Gemini and Python.
So for this lecture I'm using Google Gemini.
You can use any other like LM for example OpenAI or any, you know, LM implementation you can use for
but for but we are learning the concept here.
Like how different different use cases a QA automation engineer, how we can integrate AI within our
automation flows.
Okay.
So what is the objective of this lecture is like by the end of this lecture, you know, you will be
able to compare the text content of the two PDFs, which we have already learned, like from the last
lecture, like how to compare the text content using pi PDF.
Right.
So we are just comparing text by text and then passing it to the diff library for finding the list of
the differences and then comparing them.
Uh, right.
So we and printing them.
So that is what we already achieved.
Now we will integrate Google Gemini model like Google Gemini 2.0 flash model to summarize the differences
in the natural language, because last time when we received this output, this output is like, you
know, very technical, you know, technical for that or uh, like that can understand, developer can
understand.
But you know, it's very difficult to present it in and give a summary.
So for this PDF is small but in case you have large PDF.
So that is very uh difficult to understand and interpret.
So for that only purpose we will be using AI to summarize this for us.
So this automate document comparison can be used by QA for for verification of the document for compliance
verification legal and reporting use cases.
Right.
So prerequisite for that is you know, uh, you we should have uh, these two libraries installed like
pip install pi, which we already installed.
And another is Google generative AI.
So since we are using Google uh, model.
So we'll be using this for my system.
It's already there.
That's why I'm getting the requirement already satisfied.
But might be for your system.
It might take some time to install.
Right?
And then you need to get the API key for a specific model.
You know that.
How to get a Google API key, Gemini API key, or any model API key, right?
You can get that easily.
Next is you know Will.
So this is what a utility I have created, right?
So, uh, this is like we have we are importing rdflib and uh, that is the same from the previous lecture.
And now we have this Google generative AI, uh, package.
As a, you know, we have imported and here I'm configuring the API key for my, uh, Google, uh,
for my model.
And this is what, uh, uh, the model I'm using flash model I'm using here.
And next, basically I'm using the Gemini 2.0.
Uh, I can use Gemini 2.0 Pro as well for deeper semantic task, but, uh, for but flash I have used
because it's like more faster and cost efficient for summarization.
So as I said, you should know like which model you are using and you should have a justification because
there is a specific cost associated and each model comes for specific use case.
So you can go through the documentation of the model.
So why I've used Gemini 2.0 flash because that is for good for uh, summarization.
But if I have to do a semantic task, semantic comparison and all those stuff, deep semantic tasks,
right.
For that I have I should use Gemini 2.0.
But, you know, again, um, there is a cost associated with that.
Right?
So we should be using we should be you know, we should be knowing that why we are using, uh, specific
model and what, what purpose.
So this extract text is we already understand like, uh, what this function is doing this compare text.
We know what we are doing right now.
This is the these two functions I have added summarize with Gemini and compare PDF and summarize.
So uh, in from our main function we will be calling this compare PDF and summarize.
So I will be sharing this code with you in this lecture.
You know uh, in the resource section of this uh section.
So don't worry.
But just understand this.
So basically from the main function I will be calling this function compare pdf and summarize.
So this is an orchestrator.
It will call the compare text.
It will find out the differences.
And then here we are here the this is the pythonic way of identifying like suppose two files are similar.
So means text difference list is empty because text difference is a list.
We are getting the list here, right?
This is a list right?
So if list is empty right.
So empty list will be false and false of uh not is true.
So that means identical text become true right?
And if it is true then we don't need to summarize.
That means both files are same so no need of summarization in that case.
So we are just returning the content and summary.
There they are, the identical text.
But in case there is some difference that means it is true, then true of not is false.
Then identical text become false, right?
And then we have to summarize with Gemini.
So this is.
Then it will call this function summarization with Gemini with the text difference, whatever difference
it has found in the two pdf file.
And here we are writing the prompt prompt.
We are writing like you are document reviewer, right.
And we are giving.
We are basically here giving the Gemini the raw difference text and ask is to describe the key differences
here, right?
So this mimics a real world reviewer summarizing the legal or technical update in the document.
So we are right.
We have written the prompt as you are document reviewer compared to PDF file.
Below are the extracted text differences in unified difference format like we are passing the exact
text difference and then please summarize the key content changes in the simple term.
So this is how we we write the prompt, right.
We are passing the you know, we have written the dynamic prompt by its dynamic because text difference
always will be dynamic.
Right.
And this other text like this you are document reviewer and everything.
This will be fixed always.
Only change will be this text difference.
And that is what we are passing.
And then we are calling this model.
Model.
We are calling from here.
Right.
We have initialized this model class and we are passing the generate content.
And we passing this prompt.
So it will return the response.
And from the response we are fetching the text.
And that what we are returning here.
So the this will return the text function.
And from that text we are fetching the summary and printing the Gemini summary of differences.
And you know we are printing the summary here.
Right.
So that is what uh, the, the this utility is doing.
And you should be knowing this like what is doing what.
And suppose in an interview you want to explain this, that you have implemented this utility in your
project.
Right.
So you should be uh, nobody is expecting you to write the complete code, right?
Because nobody is writing this code on daily basis.
But you should know the concept that what why we are using.
Suppose why you have used this model.
Uh, like flash model you have used.
Why don't you use pro model or what a prompt you have written and then why how you have written which
class you have used, right?
How to initialize that model.
So you just basic things you should be knowing and then uh, it is good, right?
You should be able to explain this in an interview.
And this will give a very good impression in front of interviewers.
Right.
So let's try to execute this.
So we will this is our yeah this is our class.
And we will we are passing the same PDF files now.
And now we should get along with the differences.
And we should be getting a good summary of the changes.
So let's click enter.
So see it is giving the Gemini Summary of differences.
The document was updated to reflect a change in the quantity of banana from 8 to 10.
So see, it has converted that text.
So you know, this, uh, technical text, which is very difficult to interpret, is now converted into
a very simple line that the document was updated to reflect the change in the quantity of banana from
8 to 10.
And that is what the change is, right?
8 to 10.
And we are able to identify the differences.
So imagine that if this is a huge PDF and you have to save a lot of time or comparing the PDF and you
know you can be implement this in your project, you know, and get a good, a good basically, you
know, you will get a lot of appreciation and you know, you will be considered as a good start if you
are building this type of solution in your project.
So and also you can explain this in your interviewer as well.
So I hope you like this.
Right.
And thank you so much.

--- Download Postman, create Google Gemini Account and setting Up Tools for ML ---

1
Hello friend, in this tutorial we will learn how to test the APIs of a different machine learning model.
2
So we need to understand when we deploy the AI models, they will be accessed through any
3
application or by any application through APIs.
4
So it's very important as being a QA to test those API and whether you know through those
5
API whether model is performing well or as expected.
6
So for this demonstration purpose, we will be using a postman as a client, right?
7
So you can use any other client like you know, you can use Java with rest assured or Python
8
with request, you know, the purpose is not to understand the API testing here, but just
9
to check the scope of API, right, how models can be accessed through API.
10
And for this demonstration, we will be looking into the Google Gemini model, which is the
11
latest model by Google LLM model, which is 1.5 flash, it will check and we'll try it,
12
we send a prompt, you know, send a request and query and we'll get the response in the
13
API, right, excited.
14
So first thing you need to do is, you know, you go to Google and you know, you can download
15
postman for Windows or whatever.
16
So this link will come and you can click on this.
17
So it's very simple, you know, right now I'm using Windows 64 bit machine.
18
So it's showing me if you're using Mac, you can do that, right?
19
And you just click next, next, next and it will download.
20
So that is a simple thing, right?
21
And next thing is, you know, you need to go to this website, ai.google.dev.
22
And here, you know, once you go here, go to the doc section, and there is an option call,
23
you know, get an API.
24
So first of all, you need to log in, you can log in with your Google account, and then
25
you need to generate a API key, because we will be using that API key for authentication.
26
So you can click on this button, get an API key.
27
And it will, you know, you can use this request to generate the API key or you can create
28
from this button.
29
So I have already created.
30
So you can also create from this button, right?
31
So please copy that because you will be able to see that API key only once.
32
Once you have the API key, then you know, you can go to this quick start section and
33
you know, go to this rest, and you will see, you know, how to send it, they have mentioned
34
that how to send a request, so they have shown as a curl command.
35
So basically, any request, any request we send, for example, to chat, GPT, or Gemini
36
or meta AI, you know, these are the post request, because we buy post request, because we send
37
the content as a body, right?
38
We send a queries or questions, whatever we are asking, right, it's a post request, as
39
you can see, so we'll copy all of these things, you know, so like this here, you know, they
40
mentioned that you need to copy this you complete URL, and followed by query parameter key,
41
and here you need to provide the Google API key.
42
So I have already set up this, you know, let me open this, I have already created my key,
43
you know, so, so you need to create your own key, and then you know, you can paste here.
44
After that, you know, let's go back to that.
45
It has a content type as application JSON.
46
So this is a header hyphen h represent in curl command header.
47
So you can go and you know, in header, along with a default when you add this content type
48
application JSON.
49
The next thing is the body.
50
So minus D is stands for body.
51
So this is basically JSON, which you need to pass, right?
52
So here, you know, I have copied and, you know, tweak a little bit.
53
So what I am doing is, you know, I'm just asking, like, classify the animal based on
54
its characteristics.
55
So what is the characteristic of animal the creature has a eight legs spin swab, and often
56
eat insect answer is in greater than 200 word, or let me put it like, you know, less than
57
200 words, right?
58
So this is what we need to send and just click on the send button, and we'll see, we'll get
59
a response from Google Gemini.
60
So similarly, you know, before that, let me try sending through the UI prompt, right?
61
So this is a Google Gemini prompt, right, we just paste a similar prompt here, you know,
62
this is a UI interface, right?
63
But generally, when we develop or you'll develop in your project, that will have a custom implementation.
64
So you'll get some API and like this, and what we are seeing Google documentation, you
65
will get that documentation API documentation from your development team.
66
So you should ask that.
67
So we said this, you know, so like, we get this response.
68
So based on the characteristic provided, the animal is most likely a spider.
69
So it has given this and also explain on what basis it has selected this as an animal, right?
70
Similarly, we have set up like this only, you know, and we'll send this request now.
71
Let's see what we get the response.
72
Got it, you know, so you can see the same, you know, here is spiders.
73
So it has, we got this response here, right?
74
So you can see, you know, we are getting the 200, okay, and you know, we are getting the response
75
like this, you need to test.
76
You know, this is just a basic overview, like, you know, how do you need to test the AI model
77
APIs, you know, you can use rest assured, you can use, you know, Python with the request library,
78
or you can use postman, you know, you can automate this, you know, instead of sending on,
79
you know, we'll see like all the test cases, what we have covered till now.
80
And, you know, you know, those test cases, you can also automate them, you know, instead of
81
running those test cases manually, right, you can, you can run this test through automation.
82
So, you know, this is a very good way of testing the model, you'll get a daily feedback.
83
So this is what we want to cover in this scope, in this tutorial, especially, thank you.

--- PostBot(AI) Pluggin to generate automation script for Model API Response. ---

1
Hello friend, in this tutorial, we'll cover like how you can write some automation script
2
or automation validation for the response you get from the machine learning model.
3
So in the previous tutorial, we have checked that you know how we have sent the post request
4
to the AI model right and we get this response now how what if like we can create some automated
5
script that you know run daily or a scheduled time or run by some CI CD tool and we get
6
some result you know so this way you know instead of testing all those things you know
7
that manually and what we have covered till now like all the different different test
8
functional and domain related and you know other testing types we have considered in
9
different test strategies we have covered till now you know instead of typing all those
10
through this UI prompt right we can test them through API as well and API is very light
11
because you know we can automate you know all these things from you know some UI tool
12
like Cypress Selenium as well but you know that is a bit heavy and that require a lot
13
of maintenance we have to read the objects location locators right you know enter the
14
text and fetch the text response and read that so instead of that you know API is very
15
light and you know we can we should always focus on doing more API automation right so
16
Postman has a very good post port they have included AI in that so I will also demonstrate
17
that so you can see this option you know post port so if you click on this right you can
18
just like add some validations so all the validation and scripts will go in the under
19
the script tab right now it's empty and we'll see how we will add more test here so for example I
20
want to validate whether the content is present in the response right so what I can write is you
21
know check if content check if content key exist right so it will okay I think we should send the
22
request first check if content key is present
23
see it has added one validation like response contain the content in the request payload so
24
like this is a JavaScript based so just the people who don't know like this PM is a postman
25
object and on basis of this you know it is we can access all the functionalities right here
26
we are adding expect you know whatever the response it basically traversing the JSON
27
and it will validate whether content is present or not like this you know we can check the content
28
length content text and property text
29
length should not be greater than 200 words right because in the if you look into the body right we
30
have mentioned that answer in less than 200 words right we need to test that whether it is giving
31
that response or not in that it is you know it is following this our instructions or not so we'll
32
add here so it is taking some time and it will see it has added the method as well where it is
33
checking the length now we'll run this and see like you know let me clear this response and run
34
it again so once we get the response it will run all the test so we can see we get the response
35
now and if you go to the test so we can see the response contain the content key in the length of
36
the content property text value is not greater than 200 so it has understood that you know it
37
is all this test is also passed so suppose if I change in my prompt I change that you know answer
38
in greater greater instead of less than greater than 200 words right and see like how whether
39
our test what will be the outcome of our test whatever script we have written here using post
40
port right send a request see so this test got failed the length of the content property value
41
is not greater than 200 content I should not exceed 200 word but expected you know we got
42
236 so that's why this is failing so like this you know we can add more and more validation and
43
we can run these scripts you know automation to automation and run on daily basis right and see
44
like whether model is whatever test we have checked till now like manually we can automate
45
all those things using this API and get the result alright thanks for joining

--- Welcome to AI-Driven QA Automation with n8n ---

Hello, friend.
What is Enitan?
The automation brain behind modern QA and AI workflow.
So before understanding this tool, let me ask you a very simple question like how much time do you
spend every day on non-testing work?
Like things like collecting the test result, preparing the QA status reports, sending emails, updating
the Google Sheet or JIRA, or coordinating with developers.
Now here is a real problem.
Most automation stop at test execution.
Everything before and after this is still manual.
So this lecture is all about fixing exactly this problem.
And the tool we are going to use is Enitan.
So what is Enitan?
Enitan is an open source workflow automation platform that allows you to connect different tools, automated,
automate repetitive processes, orchestrate complex workflows like, you know you have different workflow.
For example, you have when your automation should execute it, update the result or report in, say,
an Excel file on placed at some Google sheet.
Google drive.
Right.
And now you need to go and check open that sheet manually.
Check that okay.
How many test cases are passed, how many are failed and whether and give the analysis that okay.
Based on that whether we can release the product or not and send that report to stakeholders.
Now this is complete and complex workflow.
So anytime will help you to orchestrate this complex workflow with simple nodes connecting different
nodes.
Right.
And without writing any glue code and you know, and any code for integrating those tools.
So that is the advantage.
It's completely automation tool.
So it use AI logic and integration visually, so we don't need to write any code for it.
So as per their definition, like it's a flexible AI workflow automation for technical teams.
So you can connect different, you know, flows using AI agent as well.
Connecting to Postgres chat memory entropy chat model.
You know connecting to Jira software right.
And then adding some condition and basically sending a message to a slack channel or teams or sending
an email.
Right.
So all this type of orchestration you can perform using this tool and see we are not writing any code
here.
We are just adding the blocks visually and that's all.
So it's not any scheduler.
It's not a CI tool.
It's not any testing tool.
It's just an orchestrator you can understand.
So anytime is a automation brain that sits above all your tools right.
So in QA we generally use lot of tool like we use automation framework, Google sheets, email, JIRA,
slack, AI model.
Traditionally these do.
These tools don't talk to each other.
So this each tool becomes unknown in Manhattan and you can visually connect to them and dataflow automatically
between them.
So no glue code is required, no complex pipelines, no hard dependencies.
And it does all of this for us, right.
And this is how you know, this tool is becoming so popular nowadays because, you know, this tool
is not new.
It was there before AI as well, but with the with the outcome of the AI, you know, AI agent AI,
this tool becomes so, so famous that, you know, it's like, you know, the most famous tool nowadays,
you know, for orchestrating your workflows, complex workflows.
Right.
So we can create a workflow like this where you can, you know, uh, as a, as a user, as a tester,
you know, you create one workflow where you have some, you know, automation execution happen and
you know it.
Update the test cases with pass fail status.
And you can basically run your workflow as a chat, you know, normal plain English chat.
And it will analyze your result.
And based on that it will create an execution summary report and send that execution summary report
to your project stakeholder.
Right.
So we can write like this as a prompt that analyze the existing bugs listed in the Google Sheet and
generate concise professional QA summary report.
Assess the overall release health and clearly indicate whether the build is suitable for release and
highlight key risk areas, impacted functionality and provide clear recommendation.
And we are sending this report as a email.
Right.
And we can just run it and it will execute all the Items in few seconds.
Right.
So it's complete automation, right?
We are not using any code here.
We are just using a block of codes and like that.
Right.
And it should send uh, you know, it has basically, uh, produce uh, all the steps for me.
It just analyze this sheet, you know, create a summary report and then send an email to my, you know,
I can go and check that whether I have received the email.
And you can see we have got the email now, it's not that, uh, like, uh, fully formatted, but we
can format this with better prompts, something like that.
But yeah, you understand the flow, like how it works and how different workflows we can automate using
it.
So that's about the introduction of it and I hope you are excited.
Thank you so much.

--- What Problems Does n8n Solve for QA? ---

Welcome back.
So why anatomy matters for modern QA engineers?
So traditionally, Q automation focuses mainly on writing test scripts, executing tests, validating
results.
But real world QA involves much more.
Right.
Rather than just writing the test script, executing them and validating the result, it will involve
other activities as well.
Like QA involving test planning, test data creation, triggering the test runs, result aggregation,
notification, bug creation and reporting.
So these all are manual process most of the time.
And it's painful.
Time consuming.
Right.
What if we can automate all this activity to make the QA overall QA process more efficient and productive?
So they are an important role in automating all these tasks, which basically doesn't require much of
the QA brain.
Right.
Much of the QA skills.
Right.
But these are important activities that for every QA task or thing we have to perform.
So, you know, we should automate all these activities using tools like anytime so that, you know,
we can focus mainly on the main testing part or, you know, validating the functionality, right?
Core functionality, writing the test script, we can focus on writing the automation scripts.
Right.
So there are these tool will help us.
So what problem does it solve for QA.
So without anytime we have a multiple Jenkins jobs let's say like for multiple environments or you know
we can have a Jenkins job for API automation, separate job UI automation for mobile devices like,
you know, we have a hard code and suppose it interact with, you know, uh, with uh, Google Sheet
and interact with database.
It has to interact with, you know, uh, it has to send a email.
It has to send us, you know, teams message or notification.
So for that we could have multiple Jenkins jobs.
We have a hard coded pipelines.
We have manual API calls copy paste report.
We have to, you know, post a report somewhere.
Then we have to copy paste and, you know, fetch the report from some shared location.
We have multiple disconnected tools right now.
Like in a world of AI we have you know, we have to leverage the AI within our automation.
So we have kind of a disconnected tools together.
And we have a fragile script.
Right.
You know, if we try to create a glue code for all of these tools, right, we have to write our custom
logic and, you know, their frequent library update happening, you know, and we have to update our
script.
Suppose if that library update right, and we are using the old library, then it might break right.
So just make all process fragile with anytime we have a visual workflows as we saw in the previous lecture.
right.
Event based triggers.
We have, you know, centralized automation logic, easy integration and AI powered decisions.
We have.
Right.
And that too without writing a single line of code.
So how can it fit into the lifecycle.
So in test planning we can generate the test cases from the requirement using AI.
Create the test plan automatically.
We can store the result in Google Sheet and dogs.
During the test execution we can trigger the playwright selenium and API test.
We can run the test based on GitHub push schedule or webhook.
We'll see all this and we can retrieve failed execution automatically.
In test reporting, we can collect the results, summarize the failure using AI.
Send the slack and email alert and auto log bug.
In JIRA.
We can integrate tools like JIRA as well.
So anytime a traditional tool like playwright selenium, these tools are basically generally used for
test execution.
Jenkins GitHub actions are for CI orchestration We use different language like Python, JavaScript for
custom logic.
Building and editing is like workflow orchestration plus AI automation.
So anytime does not replace your test framework, it orchestrates and enhances it.
Okay, so the key benefit of using anytime is like, you know, we have visually low code, easy for
manual testers or functional testers.
Like you don't have to automate or write those, you know, low level detail code by themselves.
They're powerful for automation engineer as well like because it provides them orchestration power.
And it works with any framework like playwright selenium, Cypress API, like for example, you have
built an playwright with JavaScript framework, right?
And it updates some report and create some final uh, sheet in your Google Drive.
Now, after that execution, you want to analyze the test result.
So that is framework agnostic, right?
You can automate all those tasks using anything.
It's AI ready.
Native support for lm agent change and workflow, and it's cost effective.
Like, you know, we can have a self-hosted using you know, you can uh self-host your in your company,
um, servers know for execution pricing.
Right.
If you are using self-hosted.
So perfect for learning and you know, build teams better observability.
You have execution log data tracing and failure analysis.
So these are the you know benefits of using native.
And you know we can automate all those tasks which are not required by QA.
Right.
Like all this activity like test planning test data creation training training test run which required
for support the test activity, test execution.
But you know we can automate these type like bug creation, notification reporting, result aggregation,
all these things we can automate.
And for those activities and it plays a very important role okay.
Thank you so much.

--- Configuring and Accessing n8n Cloud ---

Hello friends.
In this lecture we will understand.
You can also run in cloud.
So once you visit this site, uh, there is a option called sign in.
And once you click sign in you can basically create your account.
So anytime by, uh, as of now, as of today, like this, they provide a free trial of 14 days that
you can start.
So you just need to fill your, uh, basic information, full name, company email, email address,
password, account, and they generate an email confirmation, uh, like link.
And once you confirm you are good, you can start, uh, accessing the from cloud.
Right.
So this is, uh, like suitable like if you want to give some POC, want to create some POC and then
present it to your within your company.
Right.
So then you can use this free trial to, you know, access the tool.
But uh, I think uh, for, for the customizations and for like, you know, QA use cases, I would
suggest to go with, uh, the local setup or that you can also move that setup.
You can host that setup to your company server as well.
So I would prefer that.
But yeah this is just you can access that as well.
So I have already created my account.
So once you created you can click you can enter your account name then click sign in.
So right now it is giving this option.
Let me check host I click sign in here.
Okay.
It's already saved.
Yeah.
So once you log in then um you this is the homepage you can open and you know you can then the interface
is almost similar.
Like you don't need to create, uh, I mean, uh, it's already we have seen.
Right.
So I have already created one sample workflow, uh, like this.
So where you can create, add all the, you know, uh, elements nodes here.
Right.
And uh, this is the Google Gemini account.
And suppose you want to add Gmail tool.
So you will add here right.
So you can create a new credential.
So there's one difference that when you are you are accessing the installation in local setup or in
hosted setup or any then you don't have you have to set up the client ID, secret ID, you know, I
will show you that in the upcoming session, but you need to, um, basically enter all those client
ID, client secret, you know, redirect URL, and then you have this button.
But in cloud you have directly you can log in, sign in with your Google account like this.
And you know you're good to go.
And you can set access Google services.
So that is one difference.
And but apart from that, almost everything is same.
You got all everything on the cloud so you can access them as well.
So this is about the cloud access of the Nat.
Uh, thank you so much.

--- Local n8n Setup for QA Automation Workflows ---

Welcome back.
So in this lecture I will demonstrate how you can install anything in your local machine.
Right.
So we have seen how we can run anything in cloud.
And now we can also run anything in local as well.
So I will show you that.
So if you go inside, you know, just Google uh, anything uh GitHub.
Right.
And just press enter the first I first link you can open this anytime hyphen I o and then you can open
it and you can see uh, this is the official GitHub project.
Uh, and you can see the star like it's 167 K as of today.
So that looks like it is quite popular tool.
And if you scroll down, uh, it has a nice documentation as well that they mention that anytime is
a workflow automation platform that gives technical teams the flexibility of code with the speed of
no code with 400 plus integration capability and fair code license.
Anything that you build powerful automation while maintaining full control over your data and deployments.
So they have mentioned key capability like code when you needed AI, native platform, full control,
enterprise ID, active 400 plus integration.
Right.
And they have templates as well.
And they mentioned like how to you can install uh any anything.
Right.
So but before uh you need to install this you need we, we should have uh Node.js installed in your
local.
So quickly search on Google Node.js and open this Node.js dot org and click.
And you can see about this Node.js saying that run JavaScript everywhere.
So Node.js is a free, open source, cross-platform JavaScript runtime environment that lets developers
create server web apps and command line tools and script.
So click on this Get Node.js and you can download Node.js from here.
So if you are using Mac, you can install, uh, this and you know, this binary standalone binary version.
And if you are using windows you can install this windows installer MSI.
So it's just a simple installation.
Next next.
And you can install the Node.js.
So once Node.js is installed uh, you can confirm the version of the Node.js as well.
So just type node hyphen.
And it should give you the latest version, what you're currently using at the time of recording.
And this is the version.
But it might be it got changed when you are accessing this or using this tutorial.
So one Node.js is installed.
Uh, similarly you can enter same command in windows under PowerShell.
Right.
So I will tell you where is the difference.
So you know you can work both work for both windows as well as Mac OS.
Now, once your Node.js is installed then we need to install the node.
Sorry, Nathan.
Then for installing the Nathan, we will just, uh.
If you're on Mac, you need to open the terminal and enter the command sudo npm install hyphen g and
eight and right.
So this is the command you need to execute if you are using Mac.
But if you are using windows and you are accessing through PowerShell, you don't need to mention the
sudo.
Just type this npm install hyphen g and it.
And so since I'm on Mac so let me click here.
It will ask the password.
I will enter the password.
And the reason I'm using hyphen g is because this will make sure that, you know, we need to install
the antenna only single time.
We don't need to install every time.
You know, whenever we are using this, you know, uh, like every time we need to start anytime, uh,
in local.
So we don't need to install again and again.
Right.
So in contrary, like what we see in the it's inside, right.
Uh, in GitHub page.
Uh, okay.
So I mean, that is kind of, you know, um, we don't need that.
So if you go to this, they are you there?
They're saying we using this, we can also install anytime instantly with this command.
But this whenever you execute this.
So whenever you start anytime it will all download all the dependency every time.
But we don't want to install download the dependency every time we execute, so it will run for some
time.
And then once it is done, uh, you can, uh, you can then we'll start the annotation.
So right now it is installing the required packages, giving some warning.
So we can ignore this warning for now.
So you know it will take some time.
And you know, so you know, it means, uh, what they're saying.
What does an n means.
It means node node mission and pronounce as N8N.
I get that question quite often.
So I decided probably best to answer it here.
So that's what the author is telling why they name it as an it.
And you can read it this GitHub page.
It's quite you know, it's keep on updating.
You know, they're like actively working communities, actively working on this.
So yeah, you can check it out this page for the latest pages latest changes.
And yeah, so it is installed.
So once it is installed let me clear the screen.
Then you just type N8N right.
This is the same command.
If you are using Mac or Windows just press n n and wait.
So it will uh you can get you will see you get this, uh, URL.
Just copy this in your browser.
And enter here.
So you can see it is working right.
And you can I have already installed it previously so I can access my workflow.
But in case you are using accessing first time.
So it will ask for your email uh, you know and username password.
So you just create your account and then you can start creating the workflow.
So that's about, you know, installing the antenna in your local.
Thank you so much.

--- Connecting Google Services to n8n ---

Welcome back.
In this lecture we will understand how we can connect, you know, Google Sheets, Google Docs or you
know, how you can connect, uh, services like Gmail or Google services, right, to any of our AI
agent or using anything.
So for example, suppose you are using, uh, like you want to add Google Sheet.
Right.
So like get sheet or you can say Google Sheet tool.
So you need to have an account right.
Like create you need to have this uh credential setup for connecting to this.
Suppose I create a new credential.
So here you need to have saying that OAuth URL right.
So use this URL above and prompt to enter all.
So we need to configure this client ID client secret.
So how to configure all of these right.
So connecting to services like Google Sheets Google Drive Gmail we need to set up uh you know all these
configurations.
So for that go to Google and search for Console.cloud.google.com.
So you know you can log in with your Gmail account and open this Console.cloud.google.com.
It's free of uh, you know, you can login.
There is no charges for login.
Right.
And once you log in here you can click here.
Uh, so I have a recent some project created so you can create a new project as well.
Uh you can name it as an it and demo two.
So I will click on create.
So it is creating the project demo two project.
And it take a while to create.
And once it is there you can select from the selector as well.
So let me select this demo two.
So we have this project setup.
Now we need to set up a credential manually like client ID client author URL.
All of these right.
So how to do that.
So we selected this project.
And then in this project we need to first select click here this hamburger menu and click on API services.
Enable API services.
Right.
And we need to enable some of the services here.
Right.
Gmail.
Email API.
Yeah.
Click on enable.
Similarly.
You can search.
Sheets.
Google sheet API.
You need to enable this as well.
Then after that on drive Google drive API.
Enable it as well.
And suppose you want to enable for Google Doc calendar.
Similarly you can enable individual services.
So once the APIs are enabled and again go to you know API services.
And go to this OAuth consent screen.
So click on Get Started.
Yeah.
And app name.
Say anytime.
Demo two user support email.
Next.
Since, uh, you are using any, uh, you know, organization account so you can select internal.
Otherwise since I'm logging with my Google account I will choose external.
Click next and your contact email.
Click next and then accept Terms and conditions.
Click create.
So it will take a minute and then it will set up.
So after that uh go to.
Like this.
I think this is done.
Then create out client.
Correct application and web application.
That is fine.
Okay, so this is, uh, where we need to set up our client ID and everything, right?
So.
So once you go here, you know, you need to add this.
So for example, you want to connect to Google Sheet, right.
So let me close this.
So you want to connect this Google Sheet creating account right.
So it's showing one over three directory URL.
Click to copy and add authorized URL here.
Click create.
Client ID card generated.
Placed this ID here.
Once you click okay, it will generate client secret as well.
Open this application again.
And here is the client secret.
Paste it here.
And let's try to save this.
So once you have set up this you can see you got this sign in with Google option here right click here.
Choose your email ID and you can see you are getting this error that X is blocked and it has not completed
the Google verification page.
It is because there is one setting still left we need to complete.
So.
Let me go back to here and go to audience.
We need to publish this app as well.
Click on publish app confirm.
So this will once this is published, right.
You can configure this.
Here.
Sign in with Google, collect your email ID and then click on advanced.
Go to and then go to.
That is fine.
Collect all continue.
See the connection is successful.
So you are able to successfully connected to Google services from Manhattan.
Right.
And let me close this.
And suppose I select the Google account to right from which list I want.
So I want uh document list.
So this document is present in my name is results.
It is present in my Google Drive.
So it is able to fetch from that you can see sheet one because sheet one.
So it is able to read the data.
And let me execute this step.
So okay so let me again we need to connect this to the tool.
Okay.
So let me execute this tab.
So you can see it has successfully fetched the data like login checkout search test login checkout search.
So we are able to successfully connect to Google's services like Google Sheet from.
Net.
So this is how you can select and similarly for other services like if you want to connect to Gmail
tool.
Similarly you need to set up account you know and then perform that action.
So I hope this is helpful.
Thank you so much.

--- Setting Up Ollama Locally on Windows & macOS (Step-by-Step) ---

1
Friends, so in this lecture we will understand how you are going to set up OLama locally
2
on Windows and MacOS.
3
So you can see that it helps to chat and build with open model.
4
You can use OLama to run the LLM in your local machine.
5
So AI automation becomes 10 times more powerful when you can run model locally because there
6
is no API cost associated, no internet dependency, full control and you have a faster experimentation.
7
That's exactly what OLama gives us.
8
So in this lecture we will set up OLama on both MacOS and Windows and I will clearly
9
show you what common and what is different so you don't get stuck in your installation process.
10
So before that I will give you a quick context about OLama so you can know about like this.
11
So OLama is a local runtime that allows you to run LAL language models in your local machines.
12
So you can run the LAL language model on your machine and download model with a single command
13
and use them for your QA activity like QA analysis, test generation, bug summarization, AI agents.
14
Think OLama as a kind of a docker for LLM like put in simpler terms like for docker
15
we have lot of configurations but for OLama it is very straight forward and supported platform.
16
It supports MacOS, Windows and Linux.
17
So in this lecture we will focus on Windows and MacOS but you can install it based on
18
your QA environment.
19
So let's start with MacOS first.
20
So we will go to download, first you go to search OLama and go to olama.com on your browser
21
and then click on this download button.
22
You will see three options, download OLama for MacOS, Linux and Windows.
23
So since we are right now on MacOS so I will click on download for MacOS so it will download
24
the .dmg file so it's pretty fast.
25
So it will download OLama.dmg file so you can just double click and install and move
26
it to application folder.
27
So for my system it's already installed so it's very straight forward.
28
So once that is installed you can open terminal and verify that OLama is installed successfully or
29
not. olama-version.
30
One second let me clear the screen so that you can view it clearly.
31
Type this command o-l-a-m-a that is olama-version so it's giving me .13.5 right now at the time I have this.
32
Might be when you are installing you have a next updated version but that's all you know.
33
OLama installed correctly on my system and then their command you know I can OLama list.
34
So first time you are doing you will not see any model because these models I have installed
35
in my local that I can see OLama list but might be first time you will not see any record here.
36
Right so how you get the model so you click on the model and you know you'll see a lot
37
of models there.
38
So based on you know like for suppose we want a model with tools or function calling right
39
so we can select this tool and we have like minstrel model 2 and 3 you know 2 billion
40
parameter 4 billion 8 billion parameter right.
41
So for example if I search Lama model so you know we have I have like 3.2 Lama.
42
So you can go 3.2 you know 3 billion parameter or you can go with Lama 4 you know but you
43
know like you can see the size of the model so make sure that your machine has a sufficient
44
storage and RAM right and so I mean that is required for 3.3 we have you know for 3 GB.
45
So right now what I am using I am using this one Lama 3.18 billion parameter model right.
46
So 3.1 you can go here and this one so just copy it and in terminal you know you just
47
need to run this Lama full the model name right and just press enter so it will install
48
it will take some time for me it's already installed I am not running but yeah you just
49
enter it and it will install after that you can just run or Lama you know run you if you
50
want to run that model in your command prompt terminal you can run that but once you basically
51
pull that model it will be there in your system so you know when you are basically creating
52
a workflow in n8n right so we saw that so when when you pull this like when you click on this
53
say you want to bring or Lama or Lama you know chat model here you have a you need to connect
54
with that right then what you need to do you need to give the account here example I'm using this
55
so you just no need to give any API key because we are not you right now it is not running
56
yeah it is working now so so make sure for your localhost you give this URL HTTP 127.0.0.1
57
colon 11434 right so this is the default port on which all Lama is running right and you can
58
give this port and it should be and should show the connection tested successfully right and you
59
know in here once you have the connection ready then you can basically select the model so right
60
now these three models are available for selection because that is what I was getting when I run this
61
command or Lama list so these three and these three are basically coming in the drop-down so
62
you know I can select so I have selected this 8 billion parameter model so that's all like that
63
is what you you can see all this drop-down values and so your setup is ready for n8n and you know
64
all our mark is running in here so it's very simple straightforward TI based installation
65
installation no manual service setup and I think all I'm are actually is running you will see this
66
kind of you know setting or Lama icon and it's saying that it's running right and one more thing
67
you can verify you can basically go and copy this URL and paste in your browser we're saying all
68
Lama is running so that means all Lama is running you know in the background at a service automatically
69
right so you don't need to start or stop any service that is about Mac OS and suppose you
70
are using Windows then how you will do so similar nothing fancy same setup you go to download you
71
know select the window and download and basically download for window but will start installation of
72
.exe file so it's again a GUI based installation run that exe installer and follow the setup is
73
are just very simple just next next you need to click and you know but make sure that once
74
your installation is complete you should restart your system so this step is critical on Windows
75
and I mean so I often found students you know facing issue and once they restart their system
76
they will see all Lama you know service running so once you're also restart your system go to the
77
go to your power shell and you know similarly you can run this command which we ran all Lama
78
hyphen-version so it should give you you should give you the version that you have installed in
79
your system okay so just like that you know you can also go to the model once your installation
80
is done go to install yeah so once you are done with that then you can you know go to that again
81
Lama 3.1 you can you know run the same command Lama you know all Lama pull and give this name
82
of this model that will install the model and you know then you can start using an 8n and you can
83
bring the Lama chat model here and then you can give set of the connection similar like nothing
84
else just this localhost or when 127.0.0.1 colon 11434 right so that is about you know Lama and
85
you'll see the port in which port once you install that Lama it will say that at which port it is
86
running so you can get that for most of the time it is the same port right 11434 it was by
87
default on this port 99% it will be this port only right and then just you can start you don't need
88
to start anything it will be start automatically as a you know and yeah that's all that's all you
89
need to run the old Lama models in your machine so yeah once you are set up then you you can
90
create workflows in an 8n like this right you'll see in upcoming lectures thank you so much

--- Automating QA Test Execution Reports using n8n AI Agents ---

Hello friends.
In this lecture we will understand how we can build AI driven QA test execution report automation using
Ntent and Google.
Gemini Anytime is a flexible AI workflow automation for technical teams.
So we will be building this type of workflow where, uh, the complete execution report analysis will
be done by an AI agent and Google Gemini chat.
So before we jump into this workflow, let me explain you the workflow what we are going to do.
So in most QA teams today, test automation already exists.
Tests run using tools like playwright, selenium or API framework.
But after the execution, QA and engineers still do the manual work.
Suppose the motivation execution done and the this type of report got generated that.
Suppose you know two test cases are passed and one test is called failed.
So generally what you engineer has to do is he has to go and open this report, check which test case
got failed, assess the release risk, write summary emails and send updates to all the stakeholders.
So this process is repetitive, takes time.
It's error prone and does not scale.
So our goal is that we want to build an AI driven QA assistant that reads this execution result from
the Google sheet, understand the failures that what which test case got failed, assess the release
health, generate the professional QA summary and send this summary report via email to project stakeholder.
And we want to do this without writing any custom backend code.
That's exactly what workflow does.
Okay.
So this is this is the high level workflow, right, that we will be using.
Right.
So um, I have like a use case where, you know, uh, after automation execution, uh, test report
got generated and my workflow has to read this Google sheet, you know, verify that this test case
got passed or failed.
And based on that, assess that whether we should release the product or not.
Right.
So here, uh, let me explain the important components.
Uh, we will build this from scratch.
But in this tutorial, I will explain you the high level that you know, how this workflow will look
like.
So we have this a chat interface which act as a trigger where user will enter as a, you know, user
will basically enter that, okay, what action they need to perform this chat triggered the AI agent.
This agent reads the test execution result from the Google sheet and then pass on those reserved to
the Google Gemini Chat LM model.
So here we can use any LM model for demonstration purpose.
I'm using Google Gemini Chat.
You can use OpenAI model as well.
So this is the task of this LM model is to generate the QA summary release health assessment and recommendation.
Right.
So an AI agent, as we know right from the uh, from like, you know, in, in NCP or, you know, we
have seen that right in AI agent always have, you know, tools associated and a brain it needs a tool
as well as brain.
So this is a brain a model.
You need to give a chat model which basically perform all the assessment.
And this tool will help AI agent to perform the task, like reading the data from the Google sheet,
sending an email to a recipient in Gmail.
Right?
Or any, you know, email for for that reason, right?
And we have a set up a simple memory.
So the simple memory I will explain you in a while.
Right.
So effectively here like we turn this row automation result into an AI generated keyword reasoning system.
Right.
So, uh, when this chat, basically, uh, when a chat message is received.
So this workflow starts with this chat trigger.
So this node allow a human or any other system to start the queue analysis by sending a message to this
chat message.
Right.
So why this is powerful.
It can simply ask like okay generate today's QA report.
And no need to manually run script or dashboard right?
This is the entry point of this AI workflow.
Then next comes AI agent right a central brain system.
This is the most important node in this entire workflow.
This agent acts like a QA lead.
It can use the memory call the tools, query the data, and generate the structure output.
So think of it as an automated autonomous keyword decision maker.
All logic flows through this agent right.
And then we have the simple memory node.
So this node gives a short short term memory to our agent.
Right.
So this will act as a kind of a memory buffer that allows the agent right to remember the recent context.
So for example I have configured that, that uh it recent context window length is to like how many
past interaction the model received as a context.
Right.
So it maintain the conversation continuity.
You can increase it to greater.
But for this use case uh, let's let's keep it as two only.
Right.
So this is critical because uh, for multi-step reasoning or follow up questions, you know, and consistent
reporting, we need, uh, some memory for that.
You know, model remembers the context.
So without memory, every execution would be feel like a stateless.
Then comes this chat model, right.
So which is LM model which is an AI brain we are using here.
So we are we are using Google Gemini model here to understand the issues data.
Right.
Assess the severity pattern deciding the release health and writing the professional QA summary.
So this is where human like reasoning happens.
And then we have this Google Sheet tool uh which basically fetches the row from specific Google account.
I have created a credential.
I will explain all this like, you know, in upcoming lecture how to create this credential, how to
fetch the data.
So, uh, when we give this, uh, you know, we tell that, okay, this is the sheet name.
And from this sheet, which, uh, this is the workbook name, and from this workbook, which sheet
name?
We need to fetch the data.
Right.
Just and if you execute this, it will fetch the data from that sheet.
Right.
So easy for automation, right.
To update, easy for QA team to view and act as a lightweight test management layer for us.
Okay.
Then next is like, you know, this Gmail tool which used to send a message.
So right now it is sending this message to this email ID, which is my email ID for a dummy email ID
I've created for demonstration.
But you can send it to, you know, multiple recipients.
So you can have here like emails.
We can have like subject right now as defined by model then you know, message defined by model.
So which basically governed by the prompt which we send to the chat.
So this email include the execution summary failed.
You know all the summarization of the report and basically you know has all the details.
Then um, we will basically, uh, execute this in this and see how it perform.
So for that, uh, I am I have written this prompt, right.
So which is like, you know, analyze the existing issue listed in this Google sheet and generate the
concise professional summary report, Assess the overall release held and clearly indicate whether the
build is suitable for release.
Highlight key risk areas, impacted functionality and provide clear recommendations.
After that, I am saying that email the above summary in tabular format to this email ID right?
Or here you can.
Instead of this email ID, you can create a distribution list and provide the distribution list email
right of your organization so that, you know, multiple folks can receive your or, you know, multiple
stakeholders can receive your final summary report, right?
So it's like everything if you perform manually, right.
It takes an hour.
But with this you will definitely will perform this action in few seconds.
Okay.
So you know this is my email.
As of now we don't have any email, right.
So let's execute this and see how it perform.
Okay.
Uh.
It seems like there is some problem.
In the workflow.
Looks like some additional element added here.
Let me take.
Okay.
Let's use this one.
So this is the same I think.
So let's use this instead of that.
Right.
So let me copy that prompt again so that you know we don't need to write it again and again.
Right.
So uh, for that, you know, um, we can interact.
We can start the interaction with that, uh, this workflow, and then it will basically, you know,
generate, uh, for us.
Right.
So we can use.
Where it is that.
Let me write it again.
So analyze the issues listed in.
Google sheet.
You know create a.
Summary report.
And.
Assess the release and.
Through that summary report.
Right.
And highlight if.
Highlight the release and.
Okay.
Uh, share the above.
Summary.
Report.
Via email.
In tabular format.
To email.
Right.
Let's try to execute this.
So you can see looks like it has executed roughly executed successfully.
Right.
And let me check whether it has sent the email.
So you can see I got an email with release health summary report.
So they have created like this.
So dear team, please find the release Health Summary report below.
Total test three pass two.
Failed one pass.
This release health needs attention.
Regard.
So I mean they have it has created like this you know but we can we can like, you know, make it more
friendly.
Like, you know more reader friendly and, you know, uh, like get the better result by just updating
the prompt.
But you get an idea, right?
Like how fast it is, like, you know it access this sheet, you know, read all the bugs, uh, reported
there and then analyze that whether it's, you know, you know, you know, whether the release health
is good or not and send the email to the stakeholder.
Right.
So this is the complete automation.
We have not written any code here, right?
Remember, we have not written any code here to, you know, read the data from the Google sheet, you
know, from the drive and then, uh, you know, sending the email or basically passing this, uh,
converting that data from Google Sheet to, you know, uh, model and then model connecting the model,
you know, write the code, all those code and, you know, and get the response part, the response,
and then convert that response into suitable format.
And then, uh, write a code for sending an email.
So we have not written any code.
All we did is like, you know, just adding these blocks of code and this code is working.
And this block codes, these blocks are working.
Right.
We have not written any single line of code for this.
So that is the beauty of this.
Right.
So in the next lecture now we'll start building this uh, workflow from the scratch okay.
Thank you so much.

--- Connecting n8n to Databases for QA Validation ---

1
Hello friends, so in this lecture, we will understand how we can connect to database.
2
So I'm taking my SQL as a database because that is highly used.
3
But you can, you know, those concepts can, it can be applied to any database, whether
4
it's Postgre database or Oracle, right?
5
So you know, once we have we are on this workflow page, you know, we can add a database tool
6
and we can connect and fetch the data.
7
So how we can, how we can do that, like just click on this plus button, right, or you can
8
click here as well.
9
So I will enter like my SQL tool, select that, and you need to create an account.
10
So you know, I have created a database in my local.
11
So you know, I can connect to this using my SQL workbench.
12
And it's, you know, I can connect by entering username, password.
13
And then if I query, you know, I can access this database and its table and get the details
14
first name, last name, email, phone number, like, right, it has a contact table, the same
15
operation we want to perform using an A10, right?
16
So how we can achieve that.
17
So we need to create a new credential.
18
So if it's in your local database, so you will get the local host, otherwise, whatever
19
database hostname, you have just mentioned that you can get that in from the developer
20
or DBA, right, and you have this database.
21
So my database name is, if I go back to this, my database name.
22
So I will give this database name for you, like whatever database name you have, you
23
know, application, QA environment, or dev environment, or stage environment, you get
24
that database name here, and the user.
25
So generally, different users have different access, but you know, you can check with your
26
DBA and get that your user, you know, QA user for accessing the database.
27
So this is very important for performing database testing for validating the quality of data, right?
28
So this we can do.
29
So like this, I enter and let's try to see if I'm able to access so you can see connection
30
tested successfully, I can access the database.
31
And I will close that.
32
And I will try to check whether I'm able to access, you know, this detail here or not.
33
So I will say, select that credential account, full description, I will keep it as set automatically operation.
34
For example, you can see it has DB operation, execute SQL, insert update, you know, so that's
35
why we choose select here from the table, you know, you can select so I have two table
36
content and users, I will use this contact table.
37
And you can limit the rows, you know, you can add conditions like that.
38
But that is fine.
39
I want to execute select star from, you know, DB dot table name.
40
So I want to execute this command.
41
So I will just click on execute step.
42
And you can see it's very fast.
43
And I got all the data, right, whatever records I have.
44
So I got all these number of records, you know, so that is, you know, we can fetch all
45
the records from here.
46
So we have 11 records starting from zero, index zero, till, you know, till 10.
47
And similarly, you can see 11 rows are there, so we are getting all the data.
48
And you know, in form of we are getting in form of, you know, table, JSON, you know,
49
and we got the schema as well, like, you know, schema information as well.
50
So this is how we can connect to my SQL database or any database.
51
So for example, we are using, say, Postgre, right, so you can use Postgre tool here.
52
And similarly, create a credential for Postgre, similarly, right, same thing.
53
And then try to perform this.
54
So the concept will remain same irrespective of the database, right.
55
So right now, we have seen how we can connect to database to N8n.
56
Thank you so much.

--- Part1_Validate database with n8n ---

1
Hello friend, in this lecture we will see how we can perform a database validation and
2
if there is an issue in the table, right, in the data, we can automatically, we can
3
create a bug in Jira using N8n.
4
So let me ask you a question, how often as a QA team you face like, you know, you just
5
trust the database data directly or you discover data issue only after, you know, it goes live
6
or manually report data bugs in Jira.
7
In real project, data quality bugs are some of the most expensive bugs.
8
In this lecture, we will build a workflow that read a database record, right, like this.
9
We have this table and we have a number of records, right, and find the invalid email format.
10
The requirement, suppose your feature requirement is that email should be first name dot last
11
name at the right example dot com, right, but because of some data inconsistency, you
12
have an email, say like, which is not following, like for example, if email record ID 19, first
13
name is John and last name is Doe, but the email format is not correct.
14
So we need to identify this, like suppose this is here, we have around 11 reports, fine, we can look.
15
But suppose if you have thousands of records, how can we check that?
16
That is not a, you know, if you check by manually, you know, and adding, we can add some regex
17
expression that is fine and select query, but we want every time, suppose there's an
18
ETL process going on, right, and every time data ingested into your staging layer, right,
19
that's a part of ETL process.
20
So you don't need to, you don't want to sit manually and run and validate data every time,
21
you know, thousands of reports.
22
So you want some automation.
23
So nx10 will help us to, you know, automate all those workflows.
24
So you got the rule, like we have the QA rule that, you know, all email address must follow
25
this format, like first name, last name, at the right example dot com.
26
But we have this record, so we have to identify this.
27
Okay, so this is the workflow on high level we have created, like we have a chat trigger.
28
So I think I have explained all these individually.
29
Now we are in a good position.
30
So wherever, like, you know, we need to make some changes that I have not explained, I
31
will explain to you.
32
But this is our, you know, just to save time, I have already created.
33
So you have, you can check that in this workflow, I have selected two agents, right?
34
One is database tester and other is issue reporter.
35
You can add multiple agents and connect to each other, right?
36
So that is not a problem.
37
So here I have chosen two agents just for efficiency.
38
So chat message to you, this chat message will get a basically, you know, a message
39
and it acts as a trigger.
40
It triggers the database tester, the database tester agent basically read, connect to the
41
MySQL and read the contact table and basically pass that data to LLM model, AI will validate
42
the email format and then pass on the observation to the issue reporter agent.
43
Now issue reporter agent basically can analyze the issue reported by database tester and
44
if there is any issue reported, then basically connect to JIRA tool and log a bug.
45
So this workflow behave like a database QA engineer, like followed by QA lead, like who raises a bug.
46
So for example, you know, this is a database tester, this agent shares the observation
47
with this agent and then this agent basically, you know, based on the observation, if we
48
find that, okay, this is a bug, it will log a bug in JIRA, right?
49
The whole end to end process is automated.
50
So this allows QA engineer to simply say like, you know, validate email format in contact table.
51
So we are not using any script, SQL script, no SQL client, just a QA intent and we are
52
just interacting with different services.
53
So this agent acts like a database QA engineer, understand the validation rules, fetch the
54
database report, analyze data quality issue, there is basically, there is all the testing
55
logic like this, right?
56
There is no code.
57
So that is the main intent of these two, like we as a tester, I am more focused on validating
58
the business rule rather than writing the code, right?
59
And then we added all these tools there, right?
60
So let me check.
61
So only change that we have made in the MySQL tool is like if you double click, I have selected
62
the operation as select, right?
63
And from the table contact, you can see I'm fetching all the records.
64
So that is fine. Okay.
65
And in the JIRA tool, instead of get operation, I have selected the operation as create because
66
I want to create a bug in JIRA dashboard, right?
67
So that's why I selected create operation here.
68
So project is fine, issue type I want to create is bug.
69
And summary, I am just saying they define automatically by the model.
70
But in description, I was saying that, you know, a description I want to map to this
71
output, what, because you know, there is this output of this, output of this mod agent will
72
act as an input to this automatically act as an input for this agent, right?
73
So you can see it has input like output, it has a got this variable.
74
So I'm just fetching this JSON dot, you know, sorry, here.
75
So this is the input.
76
So you know, I'm basically using this, you know, JSON dot output, whatever output we
77
have here, I just placed in a description for now, right? Okay.
78
So we can check and then you know, let's see if how it runs.
79
So this is about the complete workflow.
80
So this is a chat trigger message from where the conversation will trigger it will start
81
the database register agent, then it will read that the record from the table, and then
82
pass on the those record based on the chat intent and the context, which what we what
83
we asked this database register to validate, then it pass all those observations to LLM
84
model and model will judge that, okay, whatever the condition we have mentioned, like are
85
those matching, if and based on its observation, it pass on the result to the issue reporter
86
agent and issue reporter agent, basically, then check that input, you know, pass on to
87
the LLM and analyze that, okay, does it have any issue if we find that, okay, yes, there
88
is an issue, then it will connect to gear tool and log above, okay, so that is the complete workflow. Okay.
89
So let's now run it for to execute start execution, we need to pass this prompt.
90
So here, I have written the prompt like, suppose like you are acutely responsible for raising data bugs.
91
So if invalid invalid email records are identified, right, I will share this prompt with this
92
lecture resources part, you can also copy paste it.
93
But I mean, you know, I just I want to, you know, to tell you that, you know, this prompt
94
in gaming, basically, you should also learn this prompt in gaming, you can tweak this
95
based on your use case.
96
But yeah, I will share this prompt with you.
97
Then if email, invalid email records are identified, create a Jira bug using the Jira create issue tool.
98
See, I'm mentioning it here that we have to access the issue tool, Jira issue tool, populate
99
the bug with summary description, step to reproduce actual result expect result impact
100
if no valid records are found.
101
So sorry, if no invalid records are found, respond that no defect was identified, do
102
not ask the user for permission, do not say you cannot create Jira issue always take action
103
when defects exist.
104
So this is basically I have optimized this prompt, you know, after trying multiple times.
105
So this you also face some issue, right, and you need to make this prompt, you know, optimize
106
as a you know, so then it is a role of a prompt engineer, right, we need we when we are interacting
107
with AI, we have to, you know, but if we are giving up optimized prompt, optimal optimized
108
instructions to LLM will get a better result.
109
So this is what we are asking to analyze the record.
110
And then if there is an invalid record found and log a Jira ticket, okay, so let's execute this.
111
So you can see in it has not trigger somehow it has not trigger unused tool create an issue in Jira.
112
Okay, let's see if that what how it goes so it has read the data from the table.
113
But why it is not showing the this tick mark on this Jira tool let's see and let me check
114
in Jira if it has created an issue but previously it has created an issue like this scan seven
115
but you know, but now it has not created an ticket so might be we need to see this
116
is how we need to check even though it's saying that you know the Jira bug has been created
117
so look like some issue here is an output do we need to give this equal symbol here?
118
Yes, curly braces yeah, look like it is fine Jason dot output and know why it is not creating
119
let me try with this again if it's not then I will debug and let you know why it is not
120
creating and probably we can cover in the next lecture but I think it should because
121
it worked so that is what you know sometimes you face issue might be the model because
122
right now I'm using flashlight gemline model so might be if you use a better model so you
123
get a you know better result but that is fine when we need to create and check
124
so let me send a request again
125
still looks like it has not sent a request
126
109 so it is looks like it creating issue but create issue
127
okay
128
yeah but it is not triggered I don't know what was the what is the problem here so
129
let me connect this again
130
right and create issue should work it's working somebody say let me execute this step so this is
131
how I'm explaining in case you see errors are not simple memory I think there this is what an issue
132
like it open node expected to find a session id something like that it is not
133
working session id
134
okay because it is related to it is linked to
135
this agent that's why it is might be not working
136
this step
137
yeah and what if I remove this
138
description field and then try to execute
139
it yeah it is look like sunset automatically issue yeah create from list bug
140
defined automatically by browser execute step okay I need to debug this and then
141
I will share my observation and probably will cover this in the next lecture thank you so much

--- Part2_Validate database with n8n ---

1
so welcome back so I have like take this workflow a little bit and you know
2
first let me execute this and I will explain what I have made the changes so I will
3
enter the prompt here and let me execute this now so it is running
4
okay looks like it has not called my SQL model let me that is fine
5
let's try it again
6
okay now it has called a select row right
7
okay and it has created an issue let me go and refresh
8
okay so it has created a bug here and you can see invalid record found ID 19
9
name John Doe email ABC reason it's giving the email does not match the
10
valid format first name last name example dot com right so you can see it
11
has executed and it has fetched the record from the it has fetched all the
12
record from the table and then right and then basically it is applying you
13
know it is passing this data to the next agent and then this agent is
14
physically comparing then you know whether it whatever the observation the
15
database tester agent has shared with issue reporter issue reporter will log
16
the bug if it there is a any record with not following the first name dot
17
last name at a rate example dot com so it has checked in the database table if
18
we look into the database table right we have one record with ID 19 which is not
19
falling first name dot last name and the rate you know example dot com format so
20
it has identified right and then ask issue reporter to reporter bug and now
21
issue reporter has created this bug right it is fine and you know it has
22
logged a bug it's 10125 and it is like here you know
23
can 20 check yes he can happen 20 the bug ID and it has given the proper name
24
as well as added the description and reason as well right now let's come like
25
what changes I have made instead of using Gemini model I have chosen all
26
our chat model which is running in my local you can use chat model as Gemini
27
as well but I just say basically I thought you know I add this all our chat
28
model so that you can also run it locally and you know for some of the
29
basic use cases it is always advisable to use you know the free models like
30
this because it's running in your local and there is no token post associated
31
with this and with this we have always we should always check that whether a
32
given use case we can leverage you know free models if yes then I'll be we
33
should go with that instead of paid because there is a cost associated with
34
that right but it's not always that these models we should always go with
35
free model you know paid models as for you know complex use cases you know
36
paid models are better choice but since for this use case we have multiple
37
agents and just check the query the tool and you know what the model I have
38
chosen is llama 3.18 billion parameter model and it has a function calling
39
support so you know I have selected that model so you can check the olama
40
chat model section where I have explained how to download the olama chat
41
model in your local and how can you pull the model so it's very easy to go to
42
olama site and just select the model search the model llama 3.18 and I have
43
just selected this 3.18 be and go to terminal then and you just need to
44
basically like you know just install this olama pull and then model name
45
right so it will install the model in your local and then you can access that
46
model from this drop-down I right now I have three models I'm so I have for this
47
purpose I have you 3.18 billion parameter so this is the one chain
48
similarly same I'm using for show reporter and for database tester if you
49
open you know I have added this system message I will share this in the
50
resource section about this you know you can also what I can I will do so
51
that you know you can also use this what I will do I will basically you know
52
download this you know download this as a JSON file and now next time you'll be
53
what you can do it you can import from the file right so that will help you to
54
you know download get this entire workflow in your local setup that is
55
also we can do right and also I will add this file so that you can import the
56
workflow the complete workflow so this is about the workflow and now we have
57
successfully added we have successfully verified the database we made that
58
and identify that okay right if there is any record see in this system message I
59
have I'd like identify and list all the record where evil does not follow this
60
format right so what is the format the valid email format is first name dot
61
last name and write example dot com so this is very important right the prompt
62
engineering is very important when you're dealing with agents right so you
63
should write a proper system message here and similarly for issue reporter
64
I'm delegating the roles right so I'm not giving database tester to log the
65
bug right I'm just telling if invalid record I will return their details ID
66
name email reason if no invalid record I just clearly state that all records are
67
valid I'm not telling database tester to report work but it's not his job its job
68
is to just analyze and read the record and identify the email is following the
69
correct format or not now to log the bug that issue reporter job is right so it
70
will this responsibility review the validation result provided by the
71
database tester agent if one or more invalid reports are identified create a
72
Jira bug using Jira create issue tool populate the bug with clear and concise
73
you know I am mentioning here if no invalid report found it won't clearly
74
that not if I identify do not create a Jira issue see I am giving this all
75
details so this is very important right and another thing in Jira issue like you
76
know you can add you know I have selected the summary as expression here
77
right you know this is from AI I'm using and or description right I just
78
selected you know custom field you can add the custom field here add custom
79
field right and select you know like by from list or by ID you know if I
80
automatically you know you can select one second
81
then remove this and you can add you know by ID whatever field you want to
82
populate with so here it is like description so I am basically giving
83
this description field here and value is you know this double double you know
84
this what I got from here you know because it's adding in double curly
85
braces and here you can give the dollar JSON dot output so what is dollar JSON
86
this is a JSON object JSON and in this JSON right I want to fetch the output
87
value so that's what I am giving here so it will face the complete output in the
88
description field right that's what we are getting here okay so you don't need
89
adding this equal sign as well so we don't we can remove this but yeah this
90
is all about you know the execution flow and it's executing end-to-end and it has
91
created a bug with description as well and you know imagine that this will help
92
a lot because to identify any data quality issues you can use this and you
93
can use the paid model as well higher configuration models that basically you
94
can add multiple agents as well here right so this is I mean sky is the limit
95
but the concept will remain same you know the connecting to the tools maybe
96
we have seen my SQL tool we have seen Jira issue tool we have seen the memory
97
concept we have seen how we can connect to brain the LLM then Gemini or all our
98
chat model and you know about the system message or agent right and then a user
99
message it provided here you know just in user message I'm just telling they
100
okay well it even format in this table and report bug a format of the email is
101
not correct very simple plain English right and the whole entire table is scan
102
and fetch and better date for the record invalid record right so this is about
103
the database testing or we can use with you know as multi agent as using any 10
104
right I hope this is useful thank you so much

--- Building a Public AI Chat Interface for n8n Workflows ---

1
Hello friends, so in this lecture we will see like you know how we can access this N8n
2
workflow that we have created outside the N8n tool like for example right now we are
3
accessing within the N8n tool and we are executing them right from here what if I want to access
4
this chat interface not within the N8n tool interface but outside that right so for that
5
you just click on this chat message receive trigger and there is a toggle button here
6
like make chat publicly publicly available just make it on right and you can see we have
7
this chat URL accessible if you click here you know and just paste here so right now
8
it is giving you that it is 404 error data request by book is not registered so we need
9
to enable or we need to make this workflow active before accessing this through outside
10
right so let me close this so how to activate this workflow so that we can access outside
11
right so for that you in the workflow section right you have this publish button right so
12
click on this publish button and it will give you a version name that is fine you can if
13
you want to give some specific version you can give an add some description which is
14
optional and click on publish and it will give you this message that works for publish
15
you can now make call to your production chat URL see production chat URL that means you
16
can access it from outside the N8n tool so this execution will not will not show up immediately
17
in the editor but you can see them in the execution yeah so I will you will see that
18
where we can see this in an under execution so I will click in God okay and then
19
okay so you can see it has now you know you can see this green tick mark that means this
20
is has been published so now if I refresh this so see we have this call we got this
21
chat interface and it is coming by default all this message like I hear my name in there
22
and how can I assist you today so where from where this message is coming see if you click
23
and you can see the initial message right that is how it you can change this according to you
24
know your product or you know project requirement and now you can access it from the outside as
25
well well if I enter the prompt here like this okay same problem and if I click here so it is
26
running and if I go to the workflow under the execution right you can see it is showing as
27
running it will take time so you can see that all the executions for a given workflow like
28
for this particular workflow all the executions will be locked under this execution so there is
29
editor tab and this is execution step so you can see all the running exit execution here right so
30
you can see it succeeded right so that is how it has succeeded and right so this is what about you
31
know and say that you know invalid email John Doe has a invalid so it identified that this
32
particular report has invalid report so that's how we can execute the workflow from outside the
33
you know an 8n tool so right now it's localhost.cor but in your case when you deploy this hosted
34
entity into your company server right so you will have the company URL here and you can access within
35
the company firewall but the concept will remain same right this is how you make your workflow
36
available outside an 8n tool and you can access you know like this chat interface so this is
37
very interesting right now you don't need to open the workflow for debugging you can execute from
38
here now as well right but generally when you share it with you know the leads or you share
39
it with you know higher audience within your team right the leadership team you know you will share
40
this URL because they are comfortable with this and they can you know enter the prompt what they
41
want and they can basically access this workflow and this workflow will execute so you are just
42
entering the query that the prompt in the plain English and it is executing using AI okay so that's
43
what about this tutorial thank you so much

--- Jira Configuration and Access Setup ---

1
Welcome back, in this lecture we will understand how you can create an account in Jira right
2
so if you go in Google and search Jira right so you will get this Jira by Atlassian right
3
you can open it so we will use like Jira cloud for the demonstration you can download a local
4
instance you can set up your local instance of Jira as well but I would suggest for the POC and
5
for this course go with Jira cloud because setting up the Jira instance locally that require you know
6
a lot of administration access as well on the machine and as well like a lot of dependencies
7
so this course is not Jira course right so this we are going to use this we create some issues
8
in Jira will try to fetch the data from the Jira through N8n right so we'll go with you know normal
9
Jira cloud right and we'll set up a account there okay so as of now I have logged in with my account
10
and you know you can log in into for example first time when you create right so you might get
11
you know something like that account or you need to log in with your Google
12
or something like that right so what you can do let me do one thing
13
let me open it with my different account
14
okay so you can continue as your Google account
15
right so it's saying create your account you can go ahead and create an account
16
so it's saying that this is your site that will look like so that is fine I will go ahead I will go ahead
17
so it is setting up the things right so it will take a minute or so to set up all the
18
project and the space for us so looks like this is done so saying what kind of work do you do
19
like software development you know let me select all like for now you can change this later as well
20
and that's fine welcome automation setup your space right so saying so let me say let's assume
21
that our project is e-commerce app so let's call it as e-com as space get started
22
task story feature what type of work do you need I need all let me set up like this click next how
23
do you track your work that's fine let me click on finish it's very simple you know a straightforward
24
setup and I hope this will load the jira successfully so it's kind of preparing the
25
setup for us and it will be completed soon so this will set up our jira account right and this is how
26
you can set up your jira cloud setup so you can see it has set up the space as e-com and it has
27
created a it has created few tasks as well as a dummy task like from one from two so we don't
28
need them right let's say right so let me delete them it will create our own task right and now
29
you can basically add item what do you want you want a feature bug request right so like this you
30
can manage different things okay so this is how you can basically set up your account you can
31
create you know task request bug epic like this you can create from here as well okay so this is
32
how we need to set up the jira cloud right and I hope this is useful thank you so much

--- Connecting n8n to JIRA Cloud ---

1
Okay, so in this lecture, we will understand how we can connect to JIRA from an end-to-end tool, right?
2
So we have created an account, right?
3
And for the demonstration purpose, I created the user story inside JIRA project, right?
4
So it's like for our user can place an order using the credit card, it has a description
5
as a registered customer, I want to place an order using my credit card, so that I can
6
complete my purchase.
7
It has some acceptance criteria as well, like all the details, you just originally have
8
it as a project, you know, the issue ID, which is CAN-4, so by default, it has given this.
9
So that is, you know, a sample that I have done now, to connect an end-to-end to JIRA, right?
10
They need to have some connections set up, or we can say a credential account, or you
11
know, a service account needs to be set up.
12
So if we jump to, you know, end-to-end, and I have added, for this workflow, you are working
13
and you want to add JIRA tool here, right, so you have AI agent chat, and now you want
14
to add JIRA tool, so that you know, agent can fetch the JIRA related information.
15
So for that, you know, when you type JIRA here, you get JIRA software, JIRA software
16
tool, you get JIRA software tool, right?
17
Make sure you select it.
18
So this AI already has basically created one account, right, and you can see, I'm able
19
to fetch the project as well, but let's start it afresh, suppose I want to create a new
20
credential, so I will create a new credential, and since I'm using JIRA cloud, so I will
21
select this cloud, only connect using cloud, right, and email, I will be given here, email,
22
and the main thing is API token, so how you will get this API token, so you go to your
23
account, go to your, this icon with your name, and go to account setting.
24
And here you go to security, and API token, create and manage API token, so it has given
25
one notification, let me add that automatically.
26
Okay, so it's done now, from here, you can create an API token, and you can demo, expire
27
on this thing, okay, one year, so make sure you copy this API token, because next time
28
you're not, can't recover the API token after you're done with this step, so let me copy
29
this, right, and make sure you store it somewhere so that you can refer it later.
30
All right, okay, so I have copied this API token, now I will go to my edit end, and basically
31
give this, and click save, so right now, email needs to be mentioned here, so I will say,
32
we need to give the email here, and API, do not connect with this settings, okay, it may
33
be that we are using trial account of Jira, and it may take up to a minute to work, and
34
they have, okay, it might be, it is, let's try after sometime, we close this, using this,
35
okay, and we need to give the URL as well, okay, so the domain you need to give from
36
where you can copy, so this is the domain that you need to give at latian.net, right, and once
37
I give, so it is working fine, you can see it is working, and it's fine, it's fresh here, it's
38
saying that, yeah, 18 seconds ago, it accessed, and let's see whether we are able to fetch the
39
related details, we are using Jira account 2, right, and now, suppose I want to fetch this
40
project, so it's saying that, if you want to create, which bug, epic, feature, story, what you
41
want to create, you want to, suppose, get operation we want to perform, and saying issue key, so
42
suppose, issue keys, scan hyphen 4, if I give that ID here, and try to execute this step,
43
you cannot read property when defined reading, okay, what happened, okay, issue,
44
get created, delete a user, issue, description, get operation, get an issue, okay,
45
not defined while completing the step,
46
decision, connection is successful,
47
tool discussion issue,
48
no it should be an issue, that issue p is
49
okay, so similarly I have created one other account previously so I use that
50
I think there is some restriction on number of APIs we can create
51
okay, for this as well it is giving me a problem
52
okay, let me create another
53
copy key, let me create another story
54
okay, test, user story
55
present
56
test user story
57
let me open this
58
why it is not opening
59
oh no, let me try it again
60
story, test, user, story
61
okay, let me create a test description
62
right, and it's scanned-6
63
let me try to fetch
64
cannot read property, okay
65
fine, okay, because it is not connected to any tool, is it because of that
66
okay, it was not connected to AI agent, that's why it was not working, okay, so it has a
67
because a tool should have its parent, right, the parent is agent only, so once we connect,
68
it works, okay, so now it is, see it is fetching, now let me try with different
69
previous one, can-4, and try to execute, see it is fetching
70
this as well, user can place an order using credit card, let me find that detail, it must be there somewhere
71
description is here
72
it's in json format, so yeah, description as a registered customer,
73
I want to place an order using my credit card, description
74
see, somebody user can place an order using credit card, so here we have this detail,
75
so we are able to fetch all the detail, and suppose there might be a use case where we want
76
to fetch a specific field, right, because the reason I am saying this, because we are dealing
77
with, we have include LLM model here, right, and there is a restriction of tokens, and also there
78
is a cost associated when we fetch, when we give the data to the model, so we don't want to,
79
you know, give this entire json, you know, field which are not required like this,
80
after urls and everything, we don't want to pass unnecessarily data to the model, so how we can
81
restrict this, you know, we want to fetch special detail to the model, so what we can do, we can
82
just mention like, you know, just select fields, what field you want to give, so I want to give,
83
say, I want to fetch somebody in the response, I want to have description,
84
probably severity, anything else we want,
85
or we can have ID, suppose, right, and let me try now, so you can see the json is,
86
now we have somebody description, you know, key, basic fields are mandatory fields are there,
87
but, you know, now we have shorter json compared to the previous one, so this way we can, you know,
88
optimize the cost, the token cost, right, well, which is very necessary when dealing with, you
89
know, AI models, specifically in the paid model, right, so this is how we can set up a JIRA,
90
and how we can make connectivity of end-to-end tool with JIRA software,
91
okay, I hope this is useful, thank you so much.

--- Live Demo: Generating Test Scenarios from Jira User Stories Using AI ---

1
Now let me execute this workflow in n8n so that you know we can generate the test scenario
2
for the requirement.
3
So we have this user story there in Jira and we want our workflow to create the test scenario
4
for it by fetching the user story from Jira and then send those scenario via email.
5
So I am writing this prompt as like generate test scenario for Jira story can for because
6
the user story name is can for and then share the above summarize I would say summarize
7
scenarios via email in tabular format to email this.
8
So let me try and execute this.
9
So saying that workflow executed successfully and let's see that like.
10
So it has like get this input like generate the test scenario for the user story shared
11
above summary scenario via email and let's see what user story we have fetched.
12
We have fetched the user story detail as like in user story we have limited that we want
13
only these fields summary description acceptance criteria and priority to fetch right.
14
So that's why we only got these values you can see right and let's see what email we have received.
15
So let me jump to the email and see what email it has triggered for us.
16
So like I team here the test scenario generated from story right you can place order using
17
credit card test scenario the user can place an order in credit card acceptance criteria
18
successful payment with valid card and all of these.
19
So you know scenario 2 you can see we have scenario 2 like you know verify order placement
20
is prevented with invalid credit card number given you.
21
So it has generated around scenario 5 you know but yeah I agree that this is not in
22
a correct format.
23
So probably with a better prompt or with better configuration we can change this into a better
24
format so that you know or we can generate some kind of an attachment file but you get
25
an idea that okay we can generate scenarios how we are generating the scenario by just
26
you know so our workflow automatically reading the user story from Jira right it is automatically
27
connecting to Jira right we have not written any glue code and in not in Python not in
28
any you are not using any blank chain anything right we are just using these blocks doing
29
some configurations and the magic is happening right.
30
So that is the power of any tenant we are not using any code you know any you just think
31
creatively and you can automate your task.
32
So this basically automate my task you know of like you know creating the test cases from
33
by reading the user story we can go further like we can ask that okay not only create
34
that scenario but identify the test gaps in the requirement so it should give you so it's
35
a brain right agent has a brain so it can use that brain to you know using LLM right
36
to perform the different tasks right and we it has a tools as well like you know it has
37
a memory it has get Jira connectivity tool it has a send message email tool right.
38
So this basically automate the one of the important use case during the test planning
39
right that I mean how we can create the test cases right by reading the user story okay
40
so that is again a very important like you know so this trend rises the test planning
41
reduce the dependency on individual improve the consistency across the team right and
42
save the planning effort sprint after sprint so like you know you move from like you know
43
common consensus that okay who wrote the test plan so is your coverage is good enough right
44
so it is very clear that you know we are using automated to automated orchestration tool
45
right so we build this AI driven test planning workflow where we are reading the user story
46
from the Jira and creating the test cases on the fly and in fractions of second only
47
right so this prevent the common situation like you know requirement arrived late or
48
test cases are written in hurry or edge cases are missed you can add like okay create negative
49
scenario create edge cases as well you know so it prevent the bug escape to the production
50
and and data you know later generally comes like your big report is this is not covered
51
in testing by it is not covered in testing right so this is this is not a testing problem
52
this is a test test planning problem that we are solving here so you know with this
53
we can solve all this problem thank you so much.

--- Reviewing Pull Requests Using AI and n8n ---

1
In this lecture, we will understand how we can automate the verification or review process
2
for the pull request when any pull request is raised, we will get a review comment automatically
3
and it will review the pull request completely, all the file changes, all the code changes
4
and it will suggest that whether the pull request needs some modification or changes
5
and then it will send a notification or a feedback to us so that you know before reviewing
6
any pull request we can verify that okay what changes and what modifications are required
7
in that particular pull request right so what typically generally we have the flow like
8
for example I am working on this automation code and this is playwright type script based
9
automation and suppose I have a requirement that I have added a new test case for example
10
in this file and let me name this test case as test 3 so this is the type script and if
11
you don't know about type script that is just a example I am giving it could be a python
12
it could be java or any language for that matter the process would remain same suppose
13
I have I what I am adding is like I am adding a test new test case within this dot type
14
script file or ts file where the test case name is test 3 and it basically just printing
15
then running the test case so suppose this is my requirement I have added a new test
16
now general process is like you know when we add something you know we raise the pull request
17
so how we raise like we just enter like command like get status so it's showing that whatever
18
files has been changed I just want to move this file change book uh that's for example
19
dot scan dot ts file so what I will do get you know add I will copy this and paste here
20
right so it is added and then I will when I will say get status it is showing that it is
21
add to the stage file now what I will do as an automation tester I will commit my chain like
22
adding new test case so this is my comment I am adding and it is committed and if I show that get
23
status now you can see uh that is the file which is present in stage is no more here right it's
24
already committed and now I will push the code right so so the code is being pushed to the
25
remote repository okay so let me uh let's move back to a remote repository so this is our remote
26
repo and let me just bash so this is a typical flow of you know whenever we make any changes
27
right so when I will go to pull request right so I'll create a new pull request
28
from the repository
29
see it is showing adding a new test case right so this is how we create a pull request and then
30
we have to review all the file changes so it has some other uh committed from the test file but uh
31
we just focus like suppose you know this is the change we have added right this is the new test
32
we have added in this file okay now the use case is that we want to automate so right now as of
33
like um you know you are a lead then you know you will get you know the person will raise a pull
34
request and that person basically you know create pull request assign and reviewer and then it goes
35
to the reviewer and then you will basically validate each file changes and add you know
36
suggestions command all those so that is kind of all that process is manual and that is you know
37
take a lot of time so what if we can automate this process that okay as soon as pull request is
38
raised you know and it and workflow basically you know we have a workflow which basically verify
39
this you know and and review the pr review get the all the field from the pr and you know
40
get you know review the pr changes file changes and then send a message to the finally you know
41
send a message to in our slack channel right that okay i have taken into the pr whatever changes
42
and solution in the file name it has you know or everything you know we got this type of feedback
43
in as long as the pull request has been raised in the github we got a notification in the slack
44
channel about the pr and you know the review comments in the slack channel so how cool is
45
that right we don't need to go inside so if i am a lead right i can review this comment and i can go
46
through you know uh automatically i have an idea like what on high level even though i have to go
47
to the pull request and approve manually right i am not adding the any any step here that to uh
48
approve the pull request right because that is something manual but at least you your 7080
49
work work will be done automated automatically by this flow and you don't need to spend and look
50
into each and every file so you on high level you know that okay what are the main point i have to
51
look you can also review it but this is how you can automate so we will build this flow you know
52
by ourselves right and then you can verify this so for example you know as long as i create a pull
53
request so suppose you know let me execute this flow so it is waiting for the trigger event in the
54
github and as long as i create a pull request say added new test create pull request
55
so see it got the event and it has executed and i got it all the workflow has been executed
56
and if i go to execution i can see i got this message i took a look at the pr first time for
57
writing the new test that always a great way to so it is giving that you know for readability i
58
think the test itself is pretty straightforward but i don't notice the description field is empty
59
would you mind filling that in the brief summary of what this test is checking that will help
60
others you know that is saying that you know some documentation to add in terms of maintainability
61
of changes to see it has identified the file name under for example spec so in which file
62
the changes are there looks good the test is well structured and easy to follow one minor suggestion
63
i have is to consider adding a brief comment explaining why this specific test is important
64
and what scenario it is covering so again document because there is not much in this code but you
65
know we got the idea that it identified the test and identified the file name where the
66
we have made a change in saying that adding some description and you know come comments will help
67
someone need to modify or update the test in future security wise therefore it it has gone
68
also to check the security wise everything looks good no concerns here so see it is from the
69
functional point from documentation from from the code point from the security non-functional
70
standpoint it is checking everything overall the test is great addition and with a bit more context
71
in the description and maybe a comment or two it will be even easier for everyone so see how easy
72
it is like if i am a i'm working as a test lead and i have to review say 10 pi on daily basis
73
you know that will take around one and two hours of my time on daily basis right but if i got this
74
type of you know feedback in my slack channel right how it is easy and we have a history of
75
the you know all the conversations so that you know we can i can also revert back or you know
76
i can attach this you know message to you know someone else and i can share this comment with
77
someone so that you know everything is here is to improve the productivity of the qa and that is what
78
we will be building this workflow so that you can also implement this in your project and you know
79
you can also show this to your seniors and you know this will give a very good impression if you
80
can build this type of workflow in any trend okay
81
so in next lecture we'll start building this workflow from the scratch thank you so much

--- Configuring Slack Credentials in n8n ---

1
Well, Pat, so in this lecture, what I will do,
2
I have this trial version of Slack in my local,
3
so I will explain to you how you can basically
4
create an app inside of Slack.
5
So what do you do?
6
When you open the Slack first time,
7
just log in with your, you can log in with your Gmail account
8
and it will ask you to create a workspace.
9
So right now I have created my workspace as Prateek.
10
So it allows me only to create a single workspace,
11
but yeah, in case you're doing it the first time,
12
it will ask you to create a workspace
13
so you can name it anything.
14
So right now the workspace is this Prateek right now
15
and under the workspace, I create all the apps
16
and all the channels and everything.
17
So it's kind of an umbrella inside the Slack.
18
So after that, just go to the slack, api.slack.com
19
and you will be able to log in
20
and click on this create new app.
21
So just click from scratch,
22
can give like demo app from the workspace.
23
Just select this.
24
So it gives you multiple information that is fine.
25
Go to auth and permission, right?
26
And first of all, we need to add scope
27
because to integrate anything with Slack,
28
we need to add some permissions here, right?
29
So it will be like kind of a chat.write
30
and you can add multiple permission as chat.write public
31
and channel read and channel integrated to write.
32
Channel read and channel integrated to write.
33
Channels write message is there.
34
Okay, channel write, channel join, channel manage,
35
channel write invite, channel write topic,
36
conversation connect manage.
37
There are so many, check conversation connect write.
38
Okay, channels, I think channel read is there,
39
channel write, write topic, yeah.
40
So this is pretty much we need to give
41
and then I think we are good
42
and just you need to basically to create auth token, right?
43
So when we go inside, when you add this Slack action here,
44
right, say send message,
45
you need to create a credential
46
and you can use auth or access token as well.
47
So we'll use this access token.
48
So to generate the access token,
49
you need to install to your workspace, right?
50
It will ask, you know, this permissions,
51
you can click allow and this is your auth token,
52
just copy this auth token and, you know,
53
just copy this, yeah, here and you can paste it here,
54
save and you can see connection tested successfully,
55
you can retry it, so it is working.
56
So that's what you can connect your Slack channel
57
or Slack basically, you know,
58
how you can set up the Slack credential
59
within your Anitn so that you can use that
60
and basically integrate with your Anitn workflow.
61
So this is how we can generate and, right,
62
thank you so much.

--- Building an AI-Driven Pull Request Review Workflow ---

1
Hello friend, so in this lecture, we'll start with the workflow creation for reviewing the PR.
2
So here we are in our workspace.
3
So I will click on create workflow simply.
4
And the first thing we need to add is the trigger that you know, trigger when any pull
5
request is raised.
6
So I would click here, or you can click here as well and search for GitHub, you know, and
7
add here and search, there are many options here.
8
Let's take this on pull request.
9
Okay, so once you selected this, it will give you you know, you can add your GitHub account.
10
Okay, and from this list, you can select the repository owner.
11
So repository owner is you know, this one, you know, github.com slash whatever name you
12
see for yourself.
13
So that is your repository owner.
14
So let me add here, my repository owner.
15
So you can select this and from the repository name, my repository name is you know, pay
16
right type it for demo.
17
So I can just select here. They write
18
demo, you can select an event is pulled request, you can select you know, many other events,
19
right on push, push to a repository branch, right branch pushes and repository.
20
So on the pull request, and as long as the pull request, you know, is PR is raised, this
21
event will trigger you can choose any events, but the concept will remain same, right?
22
So, you know, let me execute this step.
23
So right now it is listening, listening for the test, even go to GitHub and create an event.
24
But right now we have not raised any PR.
25
So yeah, but this is working, right?
26
We are we are able to fetch the repository on a repository name everything. This is good.
27
Okay, so once we have a GitHub trigger, I will need to basically, you know, fetch some
28
of the details from here.
29
So what I will do, I will choose one action here as added fields, which is used to modify
30
add or remove item fields.
31
So what I will I can add here is you know, multiple fields I can from the input from
32
the GitHub trigger, I have multiple input data, you know, input variables, I can fetch
33
those variables here and you know, store those variables.
34
So what I will do, let me quickly go to my code.
35
And just for example, add a space for it just to it has some changes, right?
36
I'm just showing you know, all the values will be there.
37
So just get add, git submit, I'm just adding test2 and then git push.
38
The files data has been moved here, right?
39
And now, I can go back to GitHub repository here, right and go to pull request, new pull
40
request from test branch, right, test2 is there, right, and we have this, okay.
41
So we already had a pull request.
42
So what we can do, let me create a new pull request.
43
Okay, I think I need to close this pull request, new pull request, let me close previous one
44
quickly, all the close pull request, there are some tests going to run.
45
So this is closed.
46
Okay, now let's I think we need to do it again.
47
So let me add another test, now this time test4, running test4 to validate the checkout page, okay.
48
So this one is done, so simply add git add, git commit, and git push, okay, now we have this.
49
Now let me go to this pull request, new pull request, now suppose as I you know, I am one
50
of the team member, I want to push my changes.
51
So I will go ahead and create pull request, added test4 validate checkout feature, okay.
52
So let me, you know, before this, let me execute this, so it will wait for PR race,
53
you know, and it was, you know, PR number is fifth number, so we got this number five,
54
and all the detail related to pull request, right, we have here, I mean, that is huge list.
55
But yeah, we got everything here.
56
And now, in the edit fields, right, we can see we have everything.
57
So now, what I want in this edit field, I want few details, like I want PR title variable.
58
So the title is might be it is coming in something different.
59
And you know, if I search here, title, you can see this is the title, and it test for
60
to validate this was a title, you know, a PR title we had given while we are raising the PR, right.
61
So I want to fetch this.
62
So what I will do, I will just give it like PR title.
63
And what I can do, I can just drag here, see, I got this value.
64
Similarly, I can add another field.
65
And I will add like, PR author, who is the author of the PR, right.
66
So again, I will, I need to search author, is there some feed with author, I think this
67
login will work.
68
There should be some field related to author as well here, if I remember it was related
69
to pull request author association, we have some, why it is not fetching from here, okay,
70
we can start from here as author, do we have anything related to author association, okay,
71
author association, here it is coming.
72
So I can drag here, see, the complete information, the complete, you know, JSON path is there,
73
the entire, this entire JSON is named with JSON and in this body, you know, they're fetching
74
the pull request and the complete JSON path, right.
75
Now, next, I need a PR description.
76
So what I will do, I will just add PR description here and the value would be something related to description.
77
I think it's simpler to search in the schema, yeah, repo description, base description repository,
78
pull request description, I think this should be fine, okay, and next one, I want to fetch
79
PR number as well, PR number and that would be this number, yes, so like this we can do
80
and I, let me add a repo name as well, repo name or repo is fine, repo repository for
81
full name was there, let me check with full name, yeah, this one, all right, so we have
82
all this mapping and let me execute this task, see, we have the PR title as whatever title
83
we have given PR, then PR author, we have here, you know, as an owner or like PR description,
84
right now, it is coming now, that's fine because we have not given, I think the description was
85
not added, yeah, description was not provided, then PR number here, then repo name, we are
86
fetching the complete repo name here, so we are good.
87
So now, next step, we fetch the few details from, first we fetch the entire PR information
88
and out of which whatever we need, I can use, you know, here we have this parameter,
89
action called, you know, edit field or set field, we can set from field as well,
90
so as description says that, you know, you can modify, add or remove item fields, right,
91
from here, so that's what we did and now I will add, you know, I need to basically,
92
you know, fetch the files information, like whatever a file change has been happened in
93
the pull request, suppose, this was my, you know, pull request, adding new test case,
94
suppose, you know, and here what files I have changed here, right, if I go to file change,
95
so you can see pull slash PR number, so you can see the URL, so it has, you know, this
96
github.com, then it has basically the repository name, right, the player, you know, the repository
97
name and then, sorry, the order name, the complete repository name, starting from this to this,
98
you know, here, right, and then slash pull slash PR number and slash files, so it will give me
99
whatever files has been changed, so same I need to get this file information, because I need to
100
feed this to the AI model, then AI model will understand the content of the file, so till now
101
what I did, I have able to fetch the PR related information, but I have not fetched the actual
102
change, right, to fetch the actual change, what I will do, we have an action called HTTP request
103
and here we need to basically use this URL, so what I will copy this,
104
okay, I need to copy complete URL here with HTTP, okay, this is there, so but this is hard-coded,
105
I don't want to hard-code this, right, what I want, I want this, this complete
106
and repository information, I already have this information here, right, so I can fetch from here,
107
okay, let me cut this, yeah, I can paste here, right, github.com, you know, github.com, then
108
this repository name, complete owner name, slash repository name, this is what I need,
109
right, and then pull this file, now, right now, it is 5, right, so I need to pull this 5,
110
right, and then pull this 5, now, right now, it is 5, but next time when we raise PR,
111
it would be 6 or it would be 7, right, we cannot hard-code this, so how to make dynamic, just
112
pull this information here and place it here, right, so we have a, let me execute this,
113
see, we got the file, http, github, okay, I think we need to add repos here as well,
114
resource you are requesting, I am making any mistake here, JSON repo, okay, see,
115
so this is the problem, right, if you look at this URL, this is pull, but when you look into
116
the API documentation, when I was doing this, right, it is pulls, not pull, so that's why it
117
is saying that this requested resource doesn't exist, so just click now, it should work now,
118
okay, still I think there is some problem, http, github, okay, this is not github, this is
119
api.github.com, right, so again, these are some debugging steps, okay, so now we got something,
120
some information, you know, okay, we got this file, now, see, we got this file, so
121
https, api.github.com, slash repo, JSON repo, then pulls, then this is the PR number,
122
then we have the files, so when we execute this step, we got that this is the file, test,
123
slash hook, example, stack.ts, so this was the file, right, test, slash hook, so we got this
124
file, and this file has been, you know, modified, what modified, we have added a new test here,
125
see, test4, we have added here, right, so see, two deletion, ten addition, so it is kind of,
126
you know, it is fetching the data, so this is what we want to achieve, so now I got the complete
127
information, what I need, I fetch the PR, I fetch the github information, and then I am able to,
128
using this edit or set field, I am able to fetch the required, you know, parameter out of all the
129
parameter, and using this parameter, I can, you know, fetch the modified file using HTTP request
130
action, okay, now, we are good till now, so now I got the file, so what I need to do, I need to
131
write some code, because this file is fine, I got this, but what I need to do, I need to send it
132
into a format, which my model can expect, model can understand, right, so something like, you know,
133
like, right now, that file name, hyphen, you know, status, kind of, you know, modified, and another,
134
so right now, it is single file, but it could be a multiple file, so right, I cannot send this
135
complete information to my model, so I, what I need to send, I need to send, you know, this is
136
a file name, hyphen, this is the status, whether it is modified, whether it is added, so all these
137
things, I need to, I can do by adding one code statement here, so what I will do, you can, you
138
know, add this code action, which runs custom JavaScript or Python code, so I can add this,
139
so I will go with JavaScript, you can add Python as well, that is not a problem, okay, so what
140
we will do, I will loop over input item, add a new field, call new field to JSON, so it's,
141
by default, it has added some code, but yeah, I need some, I need to write my code, so what I will
142
do, I will define one constant called file, so all the files I got, right, so this is a JavaScript,
143
so a person who knows JavaScript can understand this, what I am doing, but this is fine, you can
144
write it in any language, like you can write it in Python as well, so this JSON, where I am getting,
145
sometime I get this in a JSON object or might be, I get some, you know, in some JSON array as well,
146
so I need to handle this condition, so how I can add this, handling this, using this
147
ternary operator, so if I got a JSON object, I will convert this into an array, otherwise
148
I will just use the JSON array object, so this is what I am capturing the complete JSON information,
149
file information, and from this, I will create formatted files, the input that I will send
150
to my model, files dot, there is a function in JavaScript called map, so what this map will do,
151
map will say file, right, I need to add, you know, I want this type of format, so
152
I need to write under dollar, curly braces, file dot file name,
153
and curly braces, then parenthesis, dollar,
154
file dot status,
155
okay, so this is fine, and on this, I will join, so I can have a, you know, join by a
156
new line character, so every new line will have, so what I am typically doing is here,
157
suppose, you know, a file name one, hyphen, you know, modified, similarly, I have another,
158
suppose, I have two files, so other file could be file name two, whatever the name of that file,
159
it could be added, another could be deleted, so I got this type of information from this output,
160
okay, and the finally, I will send in a JSON array, so this formatted
161
file, key value, this is my object, so for file dot map, file, let me check, okay, it's files,
162
files, and then this arrow function, I have added a file, I am using this map,
163
so I will convert the file dot status, so this is my individual object,
164
so from this, I will type the status, and then I will add a file dot status with file dot file
165
name, this file name is this one, and then status, so I am basically, you know, concatenating and
166
mapping this to each object, and then finally returning to a JSON object, that's it, so let me
167
execute this step, okay, so not executed successfully, so I hope this should find,
168
so like this, this will be the object, it will return formatted files,
169
array, this array is fine, I hope this should be fine,
170
and formatted file equals to files dot map, okay, this should be file,
171
file dot file name, file dot status, join, okay,
172
okay, I think this is fine, I think this should work, let's see, now move ahead, and now we will
173
basically add, next step is, you know, calling to the LLM model, so we have, we can add the
174
individual LLM model as well, or we can make a API request to LLM model as well, so for this,
175
I will add API request, okay, so what I can do, we can add here another HTTP request,
176
and I am using this grok API, right, so you can, you know, this grok API URL, and you can see this
177
documentation console dot grok dot docs API reference, here they tell like, you know,
178
how we can access their model, right, how can we access their models, you know, so what I can do,
179
this request is the post request type, you can see, so let me copy this, probably we can call
180
the specific model using grok API, so let me select this post, URL is this, and then authentication,
181
and we need to send headers as well, so header, let me hold it here, first header is content type,
182
so this way I learn, you know, from their document, optional documentation, I learn
183
these things, so you know, so I am just telling you like how I learn and
184
how I learn all these things, so you can also refer in case you have any doubt, application JSON,
185
and I can add another parameter, next is authorization,
186
and its value is bearer space API key, so in my case, I will add my,
187
basically, my grok API key, so let me copy, and I will paste this one here,
188
and then we need to send the body as well, so the body will be, you know, the body will be,
189
you know, I will explain that, you know, what prompt I can send, so I have created this prompt,
190
previously, you know, we can use this, I will attach this with the lecture, I will explain
191
this, what we are doing here, so this is what in grok documentation, you know, they said that,
192
you know, this model information, message, role, content, we need to send, so same thing,
193
I am sending here model messages, right, and then in this message, I have, you know, two role,
194
a role of a system, a role of a user, right, so role of, in role of system, I am sending the
195
prompt as well, you are a friendly and professional software engineer, reviewing a pull request,
196
your feedback should sound natural, thoughtful, and constructive, like a real developer reviewing
197
a colleague's work, avoid sounding robotic or overly formal, right, and then in second,
198
role, user, content, hey, could you review this PR, and this is what I have added, like title,
199
you know, edit dot field, this something, you know, from where I am getting this information,
200
I am getting this information from, you know, from a previous step, right, from here,
201
I am getting this information, like, you know, from here, you know, this information we have
202
already captured, right, so you can use this prompt, like edit field, item, JSON, PR, title,
203
you know, this one, basically, we already fetched this edit field, item, JSON, PR, you know,
204
description, you know, all this information I have already created, so you can just use this
205
information and just copying this prompt. And we will paste where we will paste in the body.
206
So, I need to send this as a JSON, so I will paste here, right, and then
207
record the message, right, so I will have to take a PR, I noticed that this is empty,
208
it's super helpful, regarding the file, I see that you have modified the file,
209
I take a closer look and actually, can you tell me a bit more about what you, so, I mean,
210
this is working, when we will run it, it will work, let me take this code,
211
if it's fine, format this, right, and then, it will work, I think,
212
okay, now, it is, see, might be, yeah, some curly braces was missing, and formatting was not
213
correct, so now, it is working, and you can see, it has fetched the formatted file, and now, if I
214
run this, this step, see, I am getting the output as, you know, someone leaving the PR,
215
I think, it's very easy to follow, you know, one thing, you know, it has, we got the response from
216
the model, right, so, we are using this llama3.70 billion parameter, you know, you can also
217
check from their documentation, you can go to grok documentation, and, you know, go to,
218
you know, playground, or, you know, grok models, you can select, you know, different models,
219
create different project, you can search, you know, different models, we have, you know,
220
you can create API keys, like that, you know, so, this is how you can create an API key,
221
and you can use the grok models here, right,
222
okay, it should be grok models, supported models, and you can see different ones,
223
but for this purpose, you know, I have used, you can choose based on your use case, so,
224
I'm using the free tier of version of grok, and it's quite, you know, provide me sufficient
225
information, you can check the usage of your model, you know, like this, right now, I got
226
this one request, and you can have, you know, usage matrices, as well in console.grok.com,
227
you can just create an account here, and then, basically, it's very simple to create an, you
228
know, API key, and all, like this, so, once you have this information, you know, you can just
229
create, basically, API key, create your account, you can log in with your Gmail in grok,
230
console.grok.com, and go to API key, create API key, I have already created, just give the name,
231
and submit, so, you will copy the grok API, and then, just paste that, you know,
232
when you are creating the credential, right, so, just use, you just basically provide that
233
credential here, right, so, that's how we are able to access this, okay,
234
okay, so, here, you can place that API key, right, you don't need to set up a credential,
235
I'm sorry, you just can, because we are passing it as an authorization, as per the,
236
as per their documentation, where was their documentation, we were wrapping it,
237
yeah, so, authorization here, API key, we need to pass, so, this is where I am passing my API key,
238
and we are good, you can see, we are able to interact with the model, so, the model name,
239
we are passing in the body, llama 3.3, 70 billion versatile, you can use any other model for your
240
choice, but this, I think I'm good, you can use this prompt, and tweak according to your requirement,
241
but I'm just explaining the concept, and, you know, so, this way, you know, you can,
242
able to fetch the PR detail, and review the PR, now, we are good, now, next, last, is that,
243
you know, we need to send this, whatever output we are getting here, right, this content, I need
244
to send this to a slack channel, right, so, what I can do here is, what I will add, another action
245
called slack, and I will choose send message, okay, so, I will choose my slack account,
246
I have already explained how to create a slack account in the previous video, you can refer it,
247
you know, slack account, and then, you can basically, in the slack account, I need to
248
send a message, you know, to send to slack account, to a channel, which channel, so,
249
so, right now, all hash, all hyphen, is the channel, so, that is where I am sending it,
250
message type, you know, simple text, that is fine, and, you know, message text, what text you want,
251
just drag the content here, this is what I want, right, and I can execute this stuff,
252
and I think we should get the, so, see, it is right now, 3.14, and at 3.14, we got this message,
253
right, so, it is working, so, this is how you can create the entire flow, you know, and this
254
is how the complex workflow looks like, where we have fetching the information from the GitHub,
255
you know, filtering the information from the GitHub, added, you know, added set fields,
256
and then, using HTTP request, we are able to fetch the change files as well, and then, using the,
257
some, we have added a coded action as well, we are just, you know, minimum code, we, with this
258
minimum code of JavaScript, we were able to format what needs to be sent, and then, we have integrate
259
the HTTP request to send an API request to our model, so, this could be, you know, right now,
260
I am sending it to the Brock API, you can use OpenAI, or Gemini, or, you know, you can refer
261
their documentation, but the concept would remain the same, right, and here, I am sending the system
262
and user prompt here, and tell them that, okay, just, you need to verify, right, verify this,
263
get, give feedback on reliability, security, and maintainability, keep it conversational,
264
and helpful, like a developer giving advice to another developer, if there is no security
265
concern, just acknowledge that briefly, instead of over explaining, so, this is how I, given the
266
prompt, so, the prompt engineering is very important, right, so, for that, you can refer
267
my other tutorial, other lectures, other courses on the prompt engineering, right, for QA, you know,
268
I have explained it in other, other courses, but this is how we can build this, and now, at the
269
end, once we got the response from the model, we can send this message to the Slack channel,
270
right, we have seen live that I got the feedback from the LLM model directly in my Slack channel,
271
okay, so, this is how you can create this, and the moment I create a new pull request,
272
right, let me first check if there is already a pull request is there, or not,
273
so, I go to the pull request, so, right now, this is the pull request, and, you know,
274
merging the pull request, confirm message, let me merge this, now, I go to my code,
275
now, added, suppose, I added a new, I am running it again for you, just to explain you,
276
like, I have added, suppose, new method, you know, five, right, and then, let me clean this,
277
git add, commit, let me add proper comment, added, new, test, five,
278
then, git push, now, if I go back to my pull request,
279
create a new pull request, so, before that, let me execute this workflow, you know, branch,
280
test branch, create pull request, create pull request, right, and this will trigger,
281
quickly, and you can see how fast it is, and I should get the response on 317, new message,
282
let me refresh my Slack channel, so, see, 317, I got this message, I have taken a look at the
283
PR, I noticed the description is empty, and looking the change, some more descriptive
284
comment message, so, you can see, it is working, so, this is how you can create and review the
285
pull request of your, you know, as a developer, you can review using N8n, GitHub, you know,
286
LLM models, Slack, we have learned how to integrate with Slack in this module,
287
you know, and how can you send it, so, quickly, you know, at the moment, the PR is raised, right,
288
you can basically get the complete review of your PR in your message, and you can read this,
289
and you can just, you know, copy paste and send your, this feedback to your union, right, so,
290
this is how, see, imagine how basically effective and how efficient is, you know, this will help
291
you in your day-to-day work, suppose if you want to review your pull request, say, 10 PR on daily
292
basis, so, this will help you, so, this is entirely automated, we are not, there is no manual task,
293
so, every time a new PR is raised, we have to make it dynamic, we are fetching PR number,
294
we are fetching PR description, everything, right, and then we are basically fetching the file chain
295
names based on these variables, and then, you know, basically sending this message to the Slack
296
channel, so, everything is dynamic, so, there is no hard-coding here involved, right, so,
297
I hope this is useful, thank you so much.

--- What is REAL AI Self-Healing Automation ---

1
Welcome everyone, so today we are going to understand one of the most powerful concept
2
in test automation and in like in modern test automation in self-healing workflow or adding
3
the self-healing capability in your test automation.
4
So we'll go with this self-healing with AI assisted self-healing right not only the normal
5
self-healing it will be a AI assisted self-healing.
6
But before we jump into the code let me ask you something like how many times you have
7
failed you know your tests are failing because locator got changed or you know some for example
8
button text updated or new UI redesign happened and what you do normally in that case right
9
we generally open the test fix the selector and you know push the code again and then run that.
10
This is the manual healing you know manual maintenance and it has you know we all we
11
openly you know found this situation in our you know this is like something you know developer
12
has changed the locator then there's some redesigning happened and now we are again
13
have to fix the locators you know all the page classes and then push the code.
14
So this is all about manual healing.
15
What if my automation framework automatically detect that okay there is a locator that okay
16
the supplied locator the one which is part of the test script or page class right this is not working.
17
So it will check and on the fly during the execution only it will identify that okay
18
what is the correct locator and then execute the test and not only it will basically persist
19
that locator save that locator for the next execution for the next test as well as you
20
know the next execution as well we will persist that permanently in the disk so that we can
21
use that and you know later of point of time we as our as that we can go to that CSV file
22
for all the you know healed locators we can update our you know page classes easily.
23
So it saves a lot of time a lot of effort.
24
So this is how we are going to build a solution where how we will see that how AI and caching
25
keeps UI test stable resilient and maintenance free.
26
So today we are going to build this automated healing solution.
27
So but before that you know by traditional automation generally fails okay.
28
So traditional automation you know generally fails because you know for example if I show
29
you any website for example you are testing and it has for example it fails because the
30
locator got changed someone has you know in the in the locator for example the locator
31
one next button right and it got failed and you know it got failed because you know someone
32
has changed the developer has seen the locator and the definition of that particular field.
33
So how are you going to let me show you one website so that you know you will get an idea.
34
So for example here right let's see this.
35
So for example this is your sample website and you know you instead of right now if I
36
locate on this login button right so right now it's submit hyphen button right or for
37
example data test is login hyphen button and your test was running till now but because
38
of some redesign happened the attribute that you are using this data test you know it got
39
the value got changed and from the button it could be you know like this right and next
40
time you run this your test will fail definitely because it will just attribute value doesn't
41
match and it will not be able to locate it right.
42
But what if my automation has this capability you know the capability to you know identify
43
the failed locator send that error to AI with a failed locator and the page where it is
44
failed and identify the best suitable candidate for this and based on that AI will do a ranking
45
and AI will basically find out the latest locator and not only it will give the locator
46
then my framework will test that whether the AI whatever AI has supplied the locate corrected
47
locator right it is it working fine or not and then we will use it and if it works then
48
we'll save this locator for the future reference so that you know next time if my test comes it
49
will not fail it will first check in that persisted aid locator in you know that is
50
present in my framework and then it will use and what we can do is that you know we can
51
update after so many execution if you think the this is the finalized locator and this
52
is this is stable now we can update our page classes as well with that locator definition
53
so that no more healing is required for that locator right so this is what we're going to see
54
and right so so generally in a definition we can say a self-healing is like when a locator
55
fails the framework automatically find a working alternative like using cache dom analysis and AI
56
so test continue without manual fixes right we don't need a manual fixes for this why it matter
57
because it reduces the flaky test failures right so many times you know it happens you know because
58
of you know nowadays in agile application changes frequently right so our test has to keep up with
59
those changes but you know updating manually those changes will take a lot of time so we have to
60
have some intelligence in our framework where you know it will keep on updating the framework
61
with the self-healing feature so it drastically lowers the maintenance effort as we know that
62
you know now our tool or framework has a capability to maintain the locator itself
63
and it accelerates the CHED feedback loop so you know many times it is very important for CHED
64
execution that you know it should look for the changes right and so this is a high level approach
65
like we'll try with the original locator right it fails it checks the cache memory or disk whatever
66
so we have been saved a locator in a RAM as well as in a in disk in form of CSV format
67
right so first it will check for RAM memory because that is fast if it doesn't find it will
68
look for disk if still it doesn't find it will send that error to AI for healing and AI will return
69
the fixed locator then we will not blindly you know believe that whatever AI has returned it's
70
correct we will validate it we will verify its existence its visibility and if it's fast
71
then we will basically update our memory or disk cache and also you know proceed further in our
72
test so test will continue so this is about the whole architecture and whole overview I am giving
73
you in terms of self-healing and we'll see step by step you know how we're going to build this
74
so I hope this is gives you an idea and you know in the next lecture we will start with
75
you know self-healing engine that is you know we'll start looking into the you know why we
76
memory versus disk cache and we'll try to understand that you know this analog
77
you know why we have built this okay thank you so much

--- Memory Cache vs Disk Cache ---

1
Welcome back, so in this lecture we will deep dive in a self-healing engine.
2
So we will start looking into the main building blocks of you know a self-healing engine.
3
So in the previous lecture we understood that you know what is AI based self-healing and
4
why traditional automation fail.
5
So in this lecture we will go deeper like we are going to understand the most important
6
component of this framework which is you know cache right and we will understand it
7
you know how it works and you know specifically how to remember the solution.
8
So because you know real intelligence is not just solving the problem it is learning from
9
them and before we look at the code and how it works so let's understand in terms of you
10
know like you know how human from the human behavior and how human brain works.
11
So suppose you know you have a car and you forget you know where you park you go to mall
12
and you know you forget sometime you know where you park your car right so first time
13
you know suppose you know first time you search and you identify so you know next time when
14
you go to the mall you know you will you might be you can take a picture of you know the
15
location where it is you know and you can note it down right and it will second time
16
it will be faster right and next time when you visit the mall it will be a more faster
17
because you know that okay you know you have the click of your of your car as well as you
18
know you have noted down so it will be faster right on which floor where you have parked
19
your car right so you know all of that.
20
So why it is that you know the brain so brain store this in memory in two ways right so
21
first one is a short-term memory like what you have just learned right you know and that
22
you know that can be that can you can forget that that is a temporary you short-term memory
23
but there is another concept you know for long-term memory where you know you save your
24
knowledge permanently you write somewhere you take the picture you know that is a long-term
25
memory so this self-healing engine do does the same exactly the same so we will not only
26
heal the locator identify the locator will save it for save it for the future reference
27
so let's visualize like you know what's happening inside you know the framework when you know
28
locator fails and we'll see that you know what are the main component of it okay
29
so let's say that you know you are running your test execution started it will try with
30
the original locator if original locator works it's fine if it if it success it will continue
31
the test if no it will check the cache it will check the memory cache first then it
32
will check the you know the disk cache so you know and if it found that it will proceed
33
will heal and continue otherwise it will proceed to the next part we'll see that but the next part
34
but let's focus on this cache a part you know so we have two types of cache here will build you
35
know the memory cache which is which I mentioned that you know it's a short-term memory and then
36
we have a disk cache which is long-term memory so you can see right now because AI calls are costly
37
you know and take time and money right so we are not always you know going to first AI right and
38
find out that okay this is the locator it failed no that is not the correct solution that is not
39
the correct architect mindset first we need to check do we have that already have we faced that
40
issue of previously in the past if yes we must have that save in our cache so we should use that
41
instead of making a call you know to the AI right so this is why we have built this cache and in
42
the code I will share this you know this code with you but you know in them but I will explain I want
43
to explain this first so this is the method like you know suggest new locator it's in Python base
44
and here we are passing the page the action which we are performing like click or sand or whatever
45
right and the fail locator so whenever your test fail it it will call this method for this new
46
locator so you can you know if you are building using pytest you can have that in your teardown
47
method or you can catch that in an exception and call this method you know you can catch that
48
exception and catch the action page and fail locator and then you can call this way there
49
multiple ways but I'm not going that good that depends upon your framework to framework multiple
50
flavors of the framework right that I cannot discuss right now but the main concept we need
51
to understand it how we are performing the cell feeling of the locator so we'll build the cache
52
here so you can see first one we are checking the memory cache right so we we check that okay the
53
key which is what is the key so it create you know the cache like this you can see here healing
54
and that's what cache it or JSON file it is creating where it is storing the page in which
55
page that locator fails it could be inventory page it could be check out page you know and
56
then well separated by pipe the action for example click action you have gone to perform and the
57
failed locator so you can see I have you know you know I have make it wrong this framework this
58
particular locator I have make it wrong like you know instead of single key I added another key
59
so this is the key this will be a key right the page pipe separated by the action and the
60
failed locator so this is a big in dictionary if you know about Python you know in dictionary we
61
have the key and value here so here it is act as a key and this value is the heel locator so right
62
now you can see it is correct so I have not created I will delete it you know I will show
63
that you know this particular step and I basically you know we can it is the correct
64
locator you can see it has removed this you know double key and it has a single key here similarly
65
for another page we are in the checkout page you know the click action is the action and then this
66
is the failed locator continue one right I have added wrong locator here and then AI has yield
67
dislocator okay so what I will do I will quickly run this and you what I can do I can remove this
68
file so that you know it will create on the fly so I have removed this file and this is my test
69
case so you know you could have also have your test cases so I am doing a login steps adding
70
item to the card checking out the steps you know all those steps I am doing so I will show that
71
you know how it is performing and you can also mean well see the locators you know how it is
72
basically working so it will log in into the swag this source demo application like this you know
73
and then it will add some item probably this and then go to you know add to the card go to the
74
card and do the checkout and enter some name a random name right and continue and then finish
75
so this is the flow right will be the flow and in the flow I have added some wrong locators so to
76
imitate the situation where you know suppose the locators has been changed so how you will handle
77
that so you know to execute this what I will do so I am running this test
78
you can see it has now it has login and now this card icon is it is printing all the messages and
79
it is not able to print on that click on that card icon yeah see now it is able and let me
80
show you what happens if it's failed locator right waiting for the locator then can get down
81
and by the count and if I suggested because I have deleted that really catch it now you can
82
see that it has created this healing cache agent file and perform the action now next now all the
83
things pass and it's so fast right next time it failed at that step number you know 12 where it
84
is performed click on to click on the checkout you know continue button and then it failed and
85
then you know AI suggested this is a container it's saved success heal and save that into this
86
file let me open this cache a file and you can see see this is the one which failed now this is
87
the correct which which is AI suggested one right here AI has suggested the correct locator for us
88
and similarly for continue button this was a wrong locator and AI has suggested we are printing it
89
right AI has suggested this and we are storing it here right so it make a call to AI and identify
90
the locators and everything so you know what I am using in here you know so for example when
91
this test is executing so I have this framework I will share this framework with you don't worry
92
but you know the idea is that it's not not relevant to any framework you can implement in any framework
93
but you need to understand the self-healing part how we are doing this self-healing so go to this
94
step so execute step so what steps are running and suppose in any step if it fails somewhere you
95
know like for example it is performing an action and during the perform action like click fail
96
press however any action it got failed then you know the except because we caught that exception
97
here and then we are perform you know we will do you know healer dot we what is where healer
98
is coming it is the object of the selfie self-healing engine right this particular class that we have
99
created right and in this class we are passing the LLM object so you know I am I am for this
100
demonstration purpose I am using grok light right I'm I'm using the grok line you can use open AI
101
or whatever I am passing the I'm basically passing the you know if you go to this class
102
I created an LLM abstraction layer I explained this you know in my other courses but you can
103
see how we I'm creating you know giant blank change add grok class here you know and here
104
I am passing the model API be I'm reading from the environment file and initializing and passing
105
into the LLM now so I cannot explain all this framework in this class because this is that is
106
not a scope of this lecture but you can see that I am passing at the end you know from the test
107
from the you know from you know the self-healing object self-healing object in class is getting
108
this LLM object whatever LLM so it doesn't care the self-healing our self-healing self-healing
109
object is you know irrelevant to you know what LLM we are using it could be grok it could be
110
open AI it could be you know anything else llama you know you can use any model here
111
so it doesn't matter only thing matter is you pass the brain which is LLM so if we are passing this
112
to this brain LLM object and then we are actually calling here you know where it is yeah here
113
so just suggest new locator so just new healer dot suggest new locator so we first we got the
114
healer object we can on this healer object we can we have a method called suggest new
115
locator so don't worry I will share but please focus on the understanding part you know how we
116
are doing it so I'm basically calling this suggest new locator and this suggest new locator in the
117
self-healing class except the page you know the page object the action what we are performing
118
and the failed locator similarly here what I am passing you know the page action and the
119
locator so the locator we already know here like you know which locator got failed here
120
and action we know and the value of that we know right so we pass all these value to this
121
such as new locator and you know it will check it will create a key you know the key like what
122
we saw that in a json file right just you know the page separated by a pipe and then
123
action and the failed locator you know like this so it will create on the fly this key
124
and will check first whether this key exists or not whether this key is present in my memory
125
cache or not if it's present it will use that cache key it will fetch the value and use that
126
locator and return you can see and we can use it will return that value right will not go to ai
127
and next we'll check uh we'll check uh in terms of you know whether if there is not in memory
128
cache we will check in terms of you know uh the disk cache right whether the disk has that cache
129
or not you know we'll here we see this cache we are doing if it's not found in this then we'll
130
check in disk cache if disk cache has a key that means what is the disk cache we have a disk cache
131
here you know we are finally storing that in our json file we'll see that uh so if present in a
132
json file we'll use that otherwise if if we didn't find in json file then it will go to this you know
133
ai where we are calling this select candidates and then calling the prompt and then invoking the
134
llm by passing this prompt we will see how what is this prompt how we have written this prompt
135
right i will explain each and everything but concept to understand here is you know
136
before sending this call to llm we are basically trying first that you know uh we have that uh
137
key present inside our cache which is our memory cache and the disk cache right so if that is
138
present in memory we'll use this right and that will be you know during one test execution if
139
reading happens for example if we have a 20 test cases running and suppose on test number five
140
that locator got failed so we do not need to call ai again or for example if the same locator
141
is referenced in other tests as well we can use it from during that test execution run right
142
because that will persist in the ram so this is fast so no ai call no delay in that case
143
and in terms of disk cache you know we stored that into the json file we saw that you know
144
so unlike memory cache this survives across the test what if uh my disk test execution was
145
but in next test is test execution you know uh again that but at that same point has failed
146
so do i need to fetch it again no i have already you know uh that in that case the ram doesn't have
147
that locator so in that case we have to look for the persist file that we store in terms of you
148
know json file when json file will check for that key present and for that key from the dictionary
149
we will fetch the value and we'll use that value to uh locate the element so this will you know
150
this survive across the multiple test run so meaning today you know uh if ai fixes something
151
tomorrow test runs again framework remember that you know framework remember that you know using
152
disk cache or you know or you know using the memory cache we know that okay whenever uh if
153
there is a healing succeed we'll write that solution to the file and this is a real world
154
scenario also like for example if but button locator changes then ai heals it and save it to
155
the disk and next support day two you are running in the same test framework read from the disk
156
cache and use a heal locator immediately so still there is no ai call so why someone asked you like
157
why two level caches is a you know you have implement so you know why not just having a
158
disk cache then why we have a you know memory cache here we are implementing so that is for
159
the fast lookup during the same execution you know always reading from the disk is you know
160
it's slow because it involves multiple input output operations right so together the memory
161
cache for the fastest lookup from the ram and the disk cache from the persistent json file
162
we get we get the performance and intelligence right so the execution priority would be first
163
try to look for the original locator then from the memory cache then disk cache and then ai healing
164
so you can notice that ai is the last step here right it's not that only at first time when the
165
original locator doesn't work we just directly jump onto ai no we first try we first check from
166
the memory cache we first check from the disk cache then we will move to the ai because we know
167
that you know ai calls are costly and takes time right so to make our test more stable framework
168
more stable you know we have implemented this approach of having the cache along with the ai
169
thank you so much

--- DOM Candidate Collection Strategy ---

1
Welcome back. So in the previous lecture, how the self healing
2
engine remember, you know, fixes using the memory cache and this
3
cache. But in this lecture, we'll discuss something even
4
more important, like, first of all, like how, when locators
5
fail, how does AI know even like, what are the alternatives
6
exist? You know, so if suppose in the case, if we are running
7
it a first time, or you know, that locator key doesn't exist
8
in our JSON file. Right. So in that case, we need to collect
9
the, collect the DOM, we need to collect the alternatives from
10
the DOM. And we need to send that alternatives to the DOM.
11
If you're confused, don't worry, I will explain. For example, if
12
you go back to our code, right here, where we have this self
13
healing, availability, we are calling this suggestion new
14
locator. So what if, like, suppose, you know, I just call
15
randomly, you know, like, you know, without, without having
16
much details, right, for example, here, I am creating the
17
prompt, like, okay, locator, this particular locator, this is
18
hard coding for now. But for example, if I even I can use
19
this locator from here, I have the locator object with me paid
20
locator, suppose I pass this here, and it is, is all like
21
this ID with this button, suppose it's saying that
22
locator, this particular locator got failed, we suggest a new
23
locator, is this the correct approach? No, I am asking, you
24
know, AI to hallucinate, right? Because I'm asking to give me a
25
locator. Right? It could, it can give it doesn't have a
26
reference or context to my DOM, right? How can it generate?
27
Okay, this is safe, so it can it will create and then AI will
28
create something, you know, that is what that's why it's called
29
a generative AI, it will generate, but in that case, this
30
will not be a contextual correct, right, it will not give
31
me the correct output, because it doesn't know about the
32
context, it doesn't know about my DOM, what this DOM is, right,
33
I need to give the reference to this DOM, then only it will
34
identify that, okay, for this login button, this is the most, you know,
35
most reliable locator you can use, and then I can use that
36
locator and proceed, right. So, all this utility works like,
37
you know, it prevent the hatch of hallucination. And it asked,
38
you know, instead of using this type of prompt will pass the
39
complete detail from that, okay, which prevented from the
40
hallucination, you know, and have it safe limit in AI choices.
41
And, you know, why DOM candidate collection is the, you know,
42
secret weapon here we use, you know, we are collecting the
43
candidates, and we are passing those candidates to the AI,
44
right, I will explain what are these candidates, but let's
45
understand, you know, how, what should be the prompt here. So
46
instead of this prompt, I should be having the prompt, something like this.
47
Right, so this makes more sense. Yeah, I'm giving this is a
48
fade locator. This is the action that I'm performing, play,
49
input, whatever, right, choose the best locator from this list
50
only, right, I'm passing the list from where I'm getting this
51
list from this method, I will explain this, what this method
52
does, it collects the candidates, and it's a list,
53
right, I am giving AI to choose the best locator from the list
54
only, right? Yeah, I'm not giving AI to, you know, you
55
know, create anything, any junk thing from me, right? It is in
56
the control AI, our strategies control AI, instead of asking AI
57
to invent a locator, I'm first, I'm scanning the DOM, collect
58
the possible candidate. And then I'm saying that, okay, these
59
are the 15 locators, or five locators, choose the best one.
60
Now, AI is not generating, it is selecting, right, so I'm
61
selecting the best one. Now, AI is not generating, it is
62
selecting, that is a huge architectural difference, right?
63
And I'm giving that much select from the list, do not invent a
64
new locator and return only the locator. Now, I am getting the
65
better filter response from the AI. How I got this prompt,
66
everything, you know, this is by practice. And you know, this is
67
by, you know, repetitive iterations. I tried multiple
68
prompts, and I found this prompt works well, right. So this is
69
about the prompt engineering. And I covered that, that
70
infrequently in my other courses. So you can check out my
71
other AI courses. So but the idea is that if we are giving a
72
correct to the point, you know, detail from to the AI, we'll get
73
a more accurate result. Right. So this is about this. And now
74
let me go back to my workflow. So we'll collect the DOM
75
element, we send, we send those candidate, right to the AI,
76
then AI suggest from that list, the locator, and we verify that
77
locator, we'll see all these things. And then if it's valid,
78
we'll save and continue. So save is important, important idea,
79
saving it into our persistence, you know, you're saving into our
80
cache in memory as well as in, in our JSON files for future
81
reference. And then, if no, then test fails, right. So this
82
is about, you know, how we are basically performing can help
83
collecting the candidate. And now let's take an example of,
84
for example, this login button got changed, right? This login
85
button has got changed. And now I need to identify. So right
86
now, this is you know, it has a data test attribute, I attribute
87
and this, this one is like, especially added for the in for
88
test QA, right? So we should have this test, we call them as
89
a test attribute. So these are like highest priority, because
90
they rarely change, it's been added, you can discuss with your
91
development team and have this test attributes, because they,
92
they rarely, rarely changes, right and make your application
93
really very stable for your automation, right? Then we have
94
ID, then we have name, then we have value, right? So we'll
95
give, we identify, you know, set up a locator and pass that list
96
to, you know, to the, to the DOM, to the AI, and then we'll
97
ask AI to select, instead of, you know, asking AI to, you
98
know, generate the locator for us. Right, so that is something
99
we'll go. And if you go inside the collect candidate option
100
here, we are passing the page object here, right? What this
101
collect candidate does, it creating a blank list here,
102
candidate, blank list, and we are selecting the high priority
103
attribute, first priority attribute, we know it's data
104
test attribute. So it will go page dot locator, it will
105
identify all the data test attribute in that particular
106
page, right? And it will kind of find out the attribute data
107
test from it and store the value, right? And if value is
108
present, then we are appending it here, you know, we are
109
storing that attribute. So I'm using CSS locator here, if you
110
want, you can use X Park or whatever, right, that doesn't
111
matter. But the point is that I'm storing all the data test
112
attribute here. So is it you know, like something for
113
example, for this login button, I'm storing like
114
data test equals to, for example, submit
115
button, right, whatever value I'm on the fly, I fetch, right
116
and store it. Similarly, for ID.
117
ID is login button. Right, so I will add in that list. So this
118
is how we add in CSS locator, right? Login button. Right.
119
Similarly, there is all value, you can have this value because
120
to login, but I don't, I don't want to store it. So I'm not
121
storing it. I'm storing it here. So I'm storing it here. So I'm
122
have is very cursor login, but I don't suggest you to use value
123
because you know, if your application in a multi language
124
application, multi lingual application. So this particular
125
value if you're locating on the basis of this value, so that
126
might fail. Because suppose this is in French as well or in
127
German, then this, you know, value will not identify. Right.
128
If it's not that case, you can use that. So I'm passing all
129
these, you know, possible, I'm fetching all these possible
130
options. So I can say like button, colon, has text. So
131
this is, I'm giving you an example, everything is happening
132
on the flyer. Now, nobody's doing this manually, right. So
133
here, we are just checking like all the page locator with ID. So
134
I am patching all the IDs and then fetching their values, get
135
attribute ID, storing, you know, doing the loop on all the IDs,
136
fetching their value and storing that appending here, right value,
137
their value. Similarly, all the input element, I'm storing them
138
and fetching their values and storing here, you know, then
139
links. Similarly, for button, you can see button has text like
140
this, right. So I'm creating, for example, I'm sharing the 50
141
60 candidates for that particular page, and sending only
142
those selected candidate to AI, I'm not telling AI to generate
143
the locator by itself, or I'm not sending the complete DOM as
144
well to the AI, right, that will also vary a lot of talk, it will
145
consume a lot of your tokens. So what I'm doing, I'm just
146
fetching all the attributes, all the locator in my priority,
147
like first, I get the data test, because I thought these are more
148
stable one, then ID, then input, then if you know the links, and
149
then button, so I share all the possible interactive element. And
150
you know, those are shared, like, for example, it will be like in
151
this, it will be in case of, in this case, it will be a list like
152
this. Right, which we share this entire list with, you know,
153
LLM, and then LLM will basically from the from the, you know,
154
error from the action, it will, you know, semantically check and
155
suggest the best locator for us. So this is what we are doing
156
here. And then once we have this list, then we are doing the set
157
and removing the duplicate and returning this list, right, you
158
can see we are returning this list. And then once we have this
159
list of candidate with us, we are, you know, we are printing
160
the count of this candidate. And then in the locator, we are in
161
the prompt, we are passing along with a paid locator action
162
candidate. And once we have this prompt ready, we are sending you
163
know, Excel dot LLM dot invoke, we are calling the AI here, this
164
is where we are calling the AI passing the prompt and got the
165
response. And from the response, I'm doing the content. So all
166
these active things are basically, you know, basic of
167
basic of LLM or basic of AI how we use. So I hope you know all
168
of this. So if you want to study deep and go in deep in you know,
169
how we can use LLM, you know, like that, right, you can check
170
out my other AI courses. So this is how you know, because LLM
171
returns a lot of things. So we are interested in the content
172
part. So we just share content dot strip. So one advantage of
173
using this approach is that because I'm saying only return
174
only locator, not only you know, the text or explanation or
175
anything, right, I'm just getting the locator and on those
176
locator, once I got that locator, I will check that this
177
locator is present inside the candidate, whatever I have
178
provided to LLM if yes, and then I will not blindly believe that
179
whatever the locator it has shared it is correct or not, I
180
will check whether the locator exists. So in this locator
181
exists, we'll just simply doing like, you know, a playwright
182
page dot locator dot first first element I am fetching if it's
183
fun, it's true, that means it exists, right? And if it exists,
184
then what I'm doing, I am first storing this locator read
185
locator in my memory cache, then for the next couple of
186
tests, you can use that for this cache for a couple of execution
187
next couple of test executions, you know, for the next day, I
188
run this same suit, and it's same test field, then I can
189
refer it from the disk cache, I don't need to make a call to AI
190
then again, right? I can fetch from the disk cache. So disk
191
cache means this JSON file for this particular key, it will
192
store that in a value like this. Okay, so now I hope now you're
193
getting you are here now and you can review this code again, I
194
will share this code with you. So you can check this out and
195
review this. And then self dot, you know, I'm saving it to a
196
cache. So what is saving the cache means like, we have the
197
right now in our, you know, this, this particular dictionary
198
we have right now. So right now this self dot disk cache or self
199
dot memory cache, remember, we initialized as a, as a, you
200
know, dictionary only. So if it doesn't exist, save cache, it
201
will go and it will open the file in the right mode and you
202
know, dump that dictionary to this file, right to this file
203
and then it goes to two means it will be in a human readable
204
format. Like this, you can read that. So this is all about, you
205
know, this and this design basically introduces, you know,
206
how, you know, three powerful safeguard, I would say. So first
207
one is that AI cannot invent selector by on because we are
208
passing that candidate to the AI and AI cannot return
209
explanation text, because we have clearly mentioned in our
210
prompt, right? We clearly mentioned in the prompt that
211
don't just return, just return the locator, return only the
212
locator, right? Do not invent new locator or must select from
213
the list from this list only select and return the locator.
214
And AI must choose from this valid option DOM option that we
215
are providing. So this makes this overall system as
216
predictable, reliable and safe for CIGB. So without this
217
design, AI driven automation become unstable, right? We don't
218
want that. We don't want, you know, AI automation to run in
219
an uncontrolled way, right? So that is, you know, architectural
220
mindset that we have to develop. So you know, never I would say
221
that never let AI operate in any, you know, open ended mode
222
in automation. So always collect structure context, you
223
know, collect the structural context, restrict the output and
224
validate the result, right? So AI must operate inside the
225
boundaries. So I hope this is clear now. Thank you so much.

--- Integrating Healing with Playwright Execution Engine ---

1
Welcome back so understood about the self-healing automation and about the self-healing process
2
that we have added here now and we have like suppose next time we are running this test
3
and we already have the persisted cache here right I want to show you know how this self-healing
4
basically picking the values from this persisted cache instead of you know using it calling to
5
the AI so we have these two locators here in the previous session the cart link you know when you
6
just try to click on the cart link you know cart and it was not able to click because of the
7
locator got changed now we have the healed locator and save as you know given by AI now we have saved
8
that for the future use similarly continue button the locator got changed and now we have the correct
9
AI validated locator with us now next suppose I want to run this
10
and see it should pick the values from see now the this particular step it is not able to locate
11
it you will see it should read from the cache file instead of calling to AI we can see that
12
you know action failed for this locator waiting for locator invoking AI using this cache see
13
we are using the disk cache in AI suggested this it is showing that but you know we are using this
14
disk cache here and again using the disk cache you can see we are using this and now the test got
15
passed right so you can see how we can leverage this because what happened it happened like you
16
know when this particular test got failed at this particular step at this particular step right
17
you know it want to click on the continue button right so the execution we got that exception here
18
and it goes to you know that we have explained you know go to just new locator we pass the page
19
action and locator at what particular locator it got failed then we read from the memory cache
20
but we don't have anything in the memory cache because this is suppose we are running in the
21
next day or it's a different test suit execution so this memory cache is empty now it's going
22
inside this right it's printing like okay checking whether do we do we have this element present key
23
present he is like you know he is created using the page action and the paid locator we have that
24
you know we already saw that we have that uh continue one here so yeah it found its key
25
and we have this particular value for that so what it's going to do it will it will use that
26
you know it will use that key so you know it's printing that okay using this cache here
27
right and then it goes it uses healed locator equals to sets this cache right and now uh it basically
28
healed equals to this it when it's set like this it uh it it goes and now it will not go inside
29
locator so it will check if this healed locator is present
30
this locator particularly exist or not so it will then add inside the memory cache as well
31
because for the next execution suppose we don't need want to you know look for uh enough in a
32
file because that involve input and output operations so we stored that in the memory
33
cache once again so that in the next couple of tests we can leverage that we can use that
34
healed locator so now we have this healed locator with us and you know we don't need to perform
35
all these so we already have this healed locator with us and then we can use that you know we return
36
that healed locator here you can see if it's present we add it into memory and return that healed locator
37
right and after that in that execution once we have the healed locator with us
38
where we call this yeah healed locator with us so we are printing like this a suggested
39
so it's printing like a suggested but i actually i should make it like you know
40
self-healing suggested so that's why it is printing like this so it's suggesting it's
41
showing here and if the healed locator is present then we are performing the action again so this
42
is how the whole process goes and you know we are printing and we are storing these values
43
like this and you know the complete cycle ends like this and you know it goes from first
44
identifying the element and sharing with ai and locating the element there and see if that works
45
or not it exists or not and then we are using that element right like this so in short uh if
46
you go like this so so with this uh these are the takeaways that and benefits we have so by
47
adaptive self-healing automation so we have a fewer flaky failure so we drastically reduce
48
the false positive by recovering from minor ui changes automatically and we have a faster
49
pipeline because it eliminates the time-consuming reruns because every time you know the locator
50
fails we have to fix that manual triage is there for simple locator issues and if we have a ai
51
assisted healing leverage llm to understand the cementing intent when standard strategies fail
52
and low maintenance healed locators are gash reducing the need for the constant script update
53
and a script where strict validation ensure safety by verifying heal element we are not just blindly
54
testing you know we are we are not blindly trusting whatever uh ai is giving us a locator
55
we verify that whether the element you know exists or not right and then before the test
56
continuation and then if it if it's there then we continue with the test continuation
57
and we have full auditability like track every healing even for transparency and review
58
so the it reduced approximately the maintenance time to 40 percent and you know the bottom line
59
with that you know self-healing provide resident low maintenance ui test that keeps your cicd green
60
without sacrificing correctness or trust right so that is what self-healing and that is what
61
the definition of self-healing you know when a locator fails the framework automatically find
62
a working alternative using caches dom analysis and ai so test continue without manual fixes
63
so i hope this is clear to you now thank you so much

--- Bonus ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Welcome to the Future of Voice AI Testing ---

1
Welcome everyone in this new section of voice AI testing using Servam AI, Lanchain and Grok.
2
So in this lecture, I welcome you to the future of voice AI testing.
3
So the objective of this lecture is that you will understand what is voice AI testing,
4
why traditional automation fails for AI system, we will be setting up Servam AI, Lanchain
5
and Grok, we will build our first voice AI semantic validator and then we'll run a complete
6
working AI powered QA script.
7
So suppose there is a situation where your AI chatbot says that okay your payment has
8
been processed successfully and you have asked to validate this flow but your automation
9
script fails just because it is expecting payment successful or something like that.
10
So since both are not same, so your script might get failed in this case.
11
So this is sound not correct.
12
So in the world of AI driven testing, so in this section we are not testing the buttons
13
or we are not validating any exact script or we are teaching our automation framework
14
to understand the meaning, to understand the voice conversations and test the real AI system
15
like human do and trust me this exactly where the future of QA is heading.
16
So in this hands-on section we will be looking into the Servam AI, Lanchain, Grok, LLM, Python
17
to build enterprise grade voice AI testing workflow completely from scratch and by the
18
end of this section you will be able to test AI voicebots, IVR systems, multilingual conversation
19
system and semantic AI response.
20
So let's start building the AI native QA system.
21
So first of all in this lecture we are going to build something very different from traditional
22
automation framework.
23
So generally what we do right if I you know we think in this way generally we have some
24
you know kind of assertions like you know we write in traditional automation like assert
25
expected double equals to actual right but the AI system don't work like traditional system.
26
The AI system basically can have you know they can paraphrase, they can have a different
27
if they have a change of wordings, they speak actually you know unnaturally right and sometime
28
even they can you know hallucinate as well all right.
29
So these are some of the you know challenges with you know AI system, validating the AI system.
30
They can paraphrase, they can change the wording, speak naturally, even hallucinate.
31
So exact matching you know the exact matching the strings will not work or they are unreliable.
32
So that's why modern AI QA uses semantic you know things like we'll see you know a
33
semantic validation or you know intent checking.
34
We call it like AI the meaning the intent checking or AI based assertions all right.
35
So today we will build a first semantic validation you semantic validation engine using AI.
36
So what we are building so we are building basically AI chatbot response that basically
37
we can understand like this like so AI chatbot response we got some you know AI chatbot response
38
we ask we build our semantic validator that goes to a semantic validator and then we have
39
some LLM like grok or any other LLM we can use grok APIs or OpenAI or Lama or whatever
40
right you can use and then you can have some establish some you know pass or fail criteria
41
right so this is what a typical flow of a you know the real AI systems were like this
42
you know AI chatbot response you capture through API or through you know you can get this from
43
this is actually a response we want so we will receive from our chatbot API or AI agents or IVR
44
system or customer support boards right you want to validate semantically whether the semantic
45
validation is correct the intent checking is correct the AI based assertions right pass it to
46
LLM as a judge and decide pass fail criteria. So today we will teach our automation framework
47
how to understand the meaning instead of the exact word like here we used to have assertions
48
right so first of all we'll set up the environment for it so make sure you create any folder and you
49
know open in visual studio code and make sure you have a python install you can just type it
50
in a terminal python hyphen hyphen version so I have this at this time I have this 3.14.3
51
installed if you don't have python so you can go and download python for windows or mac whatever
52
operating system we are using right and then you need to create a virtual environment so you can
53
type this command python hyphen m venv dot venv right you can type this command
54
right as you can see python hyphen m venv space dot venv and press enter it will create a virtual
55
environment for you or you can do control shift p or command shift p in your mac and you can create
56
a select interpreter and you know create virtual environment from here as well all right so this
57
is how you can create and activate so in in once you create the you know virtual environment then
58
you go to this v dot if you are on windows you will type command like you know you know
59
dot venv dot venv uh you know then like this script and then slash activate
60
this is for windows but if you are in on mac you will say source venv
61
bin activate like this so my virtual environment is already activated once activated you can see
62
your virtual environment here in parenthesis right and then we have to install the library so i will
63
install pip install lang chain then lang chain hyphen grok then python hyphen dot env
64
so it's saying requirement already satisfied for me because i have already already installed
65
and so why we need a lang chain so we have run this command pip install lang chain so why we
66
need lang chain so lang chain provide us llm orchestration and lang chain hyphen grok we are
67
using from grok integration i will be using grok apis for calling llm and then python hyphen dot
68
env for secure api key loading from environment variable then uh just a normal flow you can create
69
grok basically you can create a grok api you get a llm api or whatever you use right so
70
you can use that grok api or any llm api you want to use and then you can go create dot env
71
file under this folder dot env make sure it is dot env and then add that api key there right so
72
i will be creating the project structure so what are we we will be doing uh here like i will be
73
creating a file called semantic validator dot py so this will have our code and logic for validating
74
the semantic validation then we have a file called test semantic validation dot py so this
75
is a test command to validate the semantic validation then we have dot env file and the
76
virtual environment we already built all right so once you have all of this uh you can you know just
77
type the command like pip you can type this command pip freeze greater than symbol and
78
then requirements dot text so you can create and you should create this file and you can see all the
79
libraries are with their versions are there so next time you if you want to share this
80
project so you just that person just has to run this pip install hyphen r requirement or text so
81
they can run this command and install everything so uh this is how uh we establish and set up the
82
setup and this is what we are going to do so from the next lecture we'll start building this
83
semantic validator uh our first semantic validation where we will be building you know
84
the logic and adding logic to llm that say llm uh you need to validate the actual versus expected
85
validate the semantic meaning ignore the wording difference return response in some format so that
86
you know we can validate the response all right so yeah let's uh meet in the next lecture thank you so much

--- Build FIRST AI semantic validator ---

1
Welcome back so in this lecture we will be building the semantic validator and
2
let's build so that we can verify and quickly see how the semantic validation
3
work. Alright so before starting the semantic validation we have to build
4
few utilities so we'll build step we'll build them step by step so that you
5
understand them why we are using. So first of all I need you know a brain I
6
need to give my utility a brain so that you know it can think and decide and
7
validate that's called as LLM as a judge and I am building LLM as a judge by
8
using you know Chad grok model. Chad grok basically a chain integration of
9
grok API and for that I can pass few parameter but before that it is
10
complaining that okay it couldn't identify what a Chad grok so I need to
11
import that from langchain underscore grok import Chad grok so now it's happy
12
and so alright so I can give here like okay grok or it's like API key equals to
13
OS dot you know get e and V and it should be grok API underscore key now
14
this OS is complaining so I will import this package as well from Python import
15
OS right so this is basically I am picking the value of grok API key which
16
I have provided in my environment file this right so so this I am fetching it
17
here API key and then I will provide the model name which model it has to use so
18
model has to use like I am using llama model here so you can use any other
19
model I'm using this llama model because I found it like you know very stable and
20
it has if this model is extremely strong for cementing validation task it
21
has a powerful reasoning cementing understanding so I am using this model
22
here and another thing I should give likes temperature so temperature I am
23
setting it as 0 and you could ask like why I am giving this temperature as 0
24
this is very important to understand so in AI testing like we want a
25
deterministic behavior we do not want a creative response from LLM so we keep
26
temperature equals to 0 so that we always have a deterministic response
27
all right so that's why I keep it like here as temperature as 0 and that's all
28
I have the brain required for validating the response so I will keep it in a
29
variable called LLM and that's simple how we add we got a LLM power in our
30
script so we will use this LLM variable wherever it will require and then I will
31
create one Python function called validate semantic semantics and it will
32
basically have again you know that actual response and expected response so
33
I need to or I would say expected intent right that I think better value
34
better name and then I should give some prompt here which is multi-line comment
35
so I would give here in this format
36
thing I am this one yeah okay now it's good so I would say like I will write a
37
prompt to give a role to LLM that I would say I can say like you are an
38
expert AI QA validation engine right and then compare the actual response
39
with expected intent or I would write like in this form expected intent or I
40
can say in this so that you know it actually matches actual response like
41
this right and then I can say that actual
42
actual response what is actual response actual response is this one which I am
43
passing here so I can cap keep it here because I am using this formatted string
44
here and then expected intent could be you know whatever I am passing here
45
expected intent and this should be I could capture it here like this and then
46
I will decide some rules like you know
47
rules like you know ignore wording differences I would say like ignore the
48
wording differences or focus on semantic meaning or return only JSON
49
return only JSON and that JSON should be in the format I could say like it's a
50
key-value pair so we say result could be right pass or
51
it could be fail right based on what you can derive a confidence score I would
52
say confidence score of in the form of you know 0 to 1 so we can talk to LLM
53
like this you know write the prompt like as you are talking to some explaining
54
someone right explaining to a human being so like that you know you should
55
write the prompt see how like clearly I am mentioning everything so that you
56
know there's a limited chances of hallucination X and this thing you will
57
learn with the practice the more you write this prompts you will understand
58
and you know with multiple iteration you understand all this explanation okay
59
reason a short explanation I need and I think this is pretty much what we
60
require so this is fine the prompt is fine now and now next is we have this
61
LLM and I will pass this prompt to this LLM I would say LLM dot invoke and here
62
I can pass a list of human messages human
63
message so now it's complaining let me introduce import this from core messages
64
import human messages so see now it is working fine and I need to pass in human
65
messages and to pass content and content would be my prompt whatever
66
prompt I am here passing right this would be like this and LLM dot invoke
67
will give me a response here right and then I can return response dot content
68
okay so what we have done like we have used basically okay one thing I miss I
69
believe okay I have not used load the environment variables from where will
70
get this so I need to do two things so that is from dot env import load dot env
71
and then I have to call this function load dot env like this so basically this
72
will load the environment variable
73
once load the environment variables so basically this is this load our API key
74
secret basically securely from env dot file and then we are basically adding
75
this LLM lang chain provide a clear abstraction layer to interact with LLM
76
provider so we are using llama model and we have already and setting the
77
temperature equals to zero and then we have added this prompt where we can you
78
know do all this we are establishing the rules for LLM that okay ignore the
79
wording difference focus on semantic meaning return only JSON in this format
80
like result pass or fail or confidence zero to one reasoning with a short
81
explanation and then we are invoking and passing this prompt whatever prompt we
82
have created we are passing it to the LLM here and then fetching the response
83
dot content so this thing we have done multiple times so I think this is by now
84
it's clear and we got this function now where it's semantic right so now quickly
85
I would I would do create a quick test right so quick test I will add so
86
suppose I would say you know I have this already created two strings so
87
actual response is like suppose there is a some chatbot or I you know automated
88
chatbot you you have from that API you get this response like okay your payment
89
of rupees say five thousand has been completed successfully thank you for
90
banking with us right like this and expected intent that okay you user
91
payment was successful and the confirmation was provided right so like
92
this this we need to validate so I can say you can add some print statement
93
here like running semantic validation
94
here okay and then I can call validate
95
semantics right and then we can pass this actual response here and then
96
expected intent okay and this is complaining
97
okay so from semantic validator import validate semantic so I have added this
98
import here and then I this will return me our LLM response right we know this
99
it will return this you know this response in JSON format and we want we
100
are returning the response dot content so I will capture this in somewhere say
101
result somewhere and then I will print this result
102
all right okay so let's quickly run this I would say run from here running
103
semantic result pass confidence 0.9 semantic meaning matches expected
104
intent all right so so you can see it is working and if I say expected anything
105
like the capital of France is Paris now expected and actual are not correct
106
right they are different let's see how it goes so you can see like it is
107
failing actual response is about payment completion while expected intent is
108
about geographic information so see it is giving me a failure right and you can
109
see the actual response so result is failed so this way this way we can
110
validate you know here we are not doing you know the actual expected or actual
111
string word by word you can say they are paraphrased whatever we understood right
112
they are paraphrased they are basically you know whatever we discussed so they
113
are paraphrased wordings got changed speak naturally even hallucination is
114
possible so all these factors we have taken into account in our semantic
115
validation where we are we are using LLM as a judge to validate we have
116
written this prompt by using this prompt only right we can do all sort of this
117
semantic type validations right and then you can see so this is expected intent
118
you know is always we are we are able to validate the intent using semantic
119
validation and that is why AI native QA is fundamentally different from
120
traditional automation all right so from the next lecture we'll start basically
121
kind of moving to the voice AI testing workflow using Servum AI and this is a
122
basically foundation I want to establish a semantic validation we are going to
123
use the semantic validation for voice validation as well voice AI testing as
124
well so we have now the understanding the core understanding and the
125
fundamental now we will jump to a voice AI testing thank you so much

--- Introduction To Voice AI Workflow ---

1
Welcome, everyone.
2
Until now, our automation framework
3
could understand the meaning.
4
We have built a semantic validation.
5
But today, we are going to make it listen.
6
We will generate a realistic AI voice response,
7
convert them back into text, and start
8
testing the conversational AI system like a real user.
9
So this is the same type of testing
10
using like banking IVRs, or call centers, or voice assistants,
11
health care boards, and conversational AI platform.
12
And the best part is we will build everything completely
13
from scratch using Servum AI, Python, LangChain, Grok.
14
And let's build our first voice AI testing pipeline.
15
So in traditional automation, we usually validate.
16
You know, we saw that.
17
In traditional system, we validate the text.
18
We usually validate the UI text.
19
But in voice AI system, they work differently.
20
So users speak and listen, interact conversationally.
21
So now QA engineer must test the generated speech, speech
22
recognization, and conversational accuracy.
23
So today, we will build a foundation of voice AI testing.
24
So for that, we will be using like Servum API for that.
25
And we need to install a few libraries.
26
So I will say pip.
27
I will make it big so that you can see it clearly. Pip install.
28
It's Servum AI.
29
And then LangChain.
30
LangChain, we have already installed.
31
So we don't need that.
32
So we just install pip install. Servum AI.
33
So it's already there in my package.
34
But for you, it may take one or two minutes.
35
So we have used this Servum AI.
36
To use a Servum AI SDK, we will be using.
37
And they provide this text-to-speech
38
and speech-to-text conversion easily.
39
And we need to set up their API keys as well.
40
So what we will do, we will have this Servum platform.
41
You will log in with your Gmail and anything
42
and go to API key.
43
And first thing, you need to create your API key.
44
And then save it in some safe location.
45
I would say place it under .env file as Servum
46
underscore API underscore key.
47
And copy-paste your API key here. All right.
48
So that is one thing.
49
And once that is done, so always we
50
store this API key in environment file.
51
So never hard code the secret inside the enterprise
52
automation framework.
53
So we have this step already done.
54
And we have created the semantic validator as well.
55
So now next thing we will build is voice-ai-test.py.
56
So I will add, go to my code, and basically
57
start creating the file.
58
So it will be voice underscore AI underscore test.py.
59
So in this, we will basically do a few things,
60
like we will be loading the environment variables.
61
We will do, again, by loading the environment variable,
62
I mean we will load the croc API key and Servum API key
63
that we have just copy-paste in .env file.
64
Then we initialize Servum AI client.
65
Then we basically capture.
66
So we have kind of a mock AI chatbot response,
67
which we can demonstrate in the form of we
68
can capture it from any API or any IVR or any UI.
69
We can capture it.
70
And then we will perform a step like text to speech.
71
We will convert text to speech using Servum API.
72
There's a model called Bulbbul version 3.
73
We will use that model and convert this into a speech.
74
And then we'll create basically, we'll create an audio file.
75
We'll create an audio.wav format file.
76
And we will see whether we are able to convert successfully text to speech.
77
And then we will again convert speech to text.
78
We will understand how to play with this voice AI agents.
79
And this is called speech to text, or text,
80
or we can call it as STD.
81
And this is called in a voice AI agent,
82
this is called TTS, text to speech.
83
These are the two common terms frequently used.
84
Then we will basically do semantic validation
85
of whether the expected intent and actual intent is matching.
86
And then we will print the response.
87
So this whole basically process we
88
are going to build from scratch.
89
And so if you go to this is the main page,
90
servum.ai under API section, they
91
have the speech to text perfected for India,
92
or they have multiple languages supported.
93
They have a transcribe, translate, transliteration, verbatim logic.
94
It is very useful for converting speech to text.
95
Similarly, they have a text to speech as well.
96
They have model for building text to speech.
97
They are claiming that they are low latency streaming,
98
configurable control, plug-and-play integration.
99
So they have a lot of integrations.
100
And that's what this is the model called
101
Bulbbul version 3 for latest text to speech model.
102
And for speech to text is Saras V3.
103
This is the model.
104
We're going to use all of them in our flow.
105
So this is the flow I have explained.
106
We got the response from AI chatbot response.
107
So we'll be using servum.ai text to speech model
108
to convert text to audio.
109
And then we create the generated audio.
110
Audio file is ready.
111
And then we convert servum speech to text.
112
We convert the speech again back to the text, audio to text.
113
And then we will be using length chain and grok validation,
114
the semantic analysis that we have already built.
115
The LLM as a judge, we will verify
116
that expected is matching with actual.
117
And then we have the pass-fail criteria.
118
So all this thing we are going to implement
119
as a modern voice AI testing workflow.
120
It's an end-to-end testing pipeline
121
for any conversational AI system.
122
So the key features are we have a semantic validation,
123
AI native QA, conversational testing,
124
multilingual voice testing we can perform.
125
And we'll see how we can set up all of this in our code. So I'm excited.
126
So on this, and let's basically start
127
building this voice AI test from the next lecture.
128
Thank you so much.

--- Implementing Text To Speech Using Sarvam AI ---

1
welcome back so in this lecture we will continue building our voice AI this
2
test.py so that we have understand like we now we understood that okay what is
3
all about and now we are going to build this like utility so for the loading the
4
environment variable we we used to we use this load
5
underscore dot ENV but for that I need to import this from dot ENV let me cut
6
and paste it here so by now you know all this basic right and then I need to use
7
so this is this will load the environment variable then we need to
8
initialize this Servam AI client so for that I need to use their client class
9
called Servam AI and here we need to pass so first of all it is complaining
10
let me import this so it's from Servam AI import Servam AI right now I need to
11
pass API subscription key here and for that we can use let me use this import
12
OS and then so that I can always start get environment variable and the
13
environment variable is the one which we place in dot ENV file that is Servam
14
underscore API underscore key all right so I have this client set up and I will
15
play basically capture it in one variable called client all right so this
16
is how I can initialize the Servam AI client and now suppose I have some I
17
need to perform text-to-speech and for that demonstration suppose I have the
18
simulated AI chatbot response so it say that okay hello Prateek your payment of
19
rupees say 5000 has been completed successfully the amount will reflect in
20
your account shortly thank you for banking with us suppose I have done some
21
transaction and then the chatbot get I got this response from the chatbot right
22
and I want basically I need to generate AI voice response from this so what I
23
can do I can just print add one print statement here all right and say
24
generating AI voice response okay like this then I need to basically convert so I have
25
this client so client dot text to speech so that they have this function called text to
26
speech oh yeah so I can call this and I will say text to speech dot convert right so I want to
27
convert the convert the text into spoken audio the output is base 64 encoded audio string that
28
must be decoded before use right so this will give me a base 64 encoded audio so most of the
29
you know this voice AI LLMs basically return the base 64 encoded audio for security reasons so we
30
have to convert them they will see how to convert them and everything right so this is a few
31
parameter I need to pass text text equals to this chatbot response which I have captured and then
32
target language code so the target language code if you go in their website speech to text right
33
yeah sorry text to speech and if we look into the implementation language you can see here you know
34
English Indian or they support multiple languages they support you know a multiple language so if
35
this is the model we are going to use and you know speaker voices is they have mentioned
36
somewhere they mentioned the language extended character limit sample rate language support
37
language support you can see you can choose multiple language like Hindi Bengali Tamil
38
Telugu Gujarati Kannada Malayalam Marathi Punjabi Oriya English right so we'll use this for now
39
we'll use this English language EN and its code is EN hyphen IN so suppose in future they add more
40
language support so the point we are learning is not specific to language it is something you know
41
that we understanding the concept how to basically use this voice AI LLMs right so we can pick the
42
language support from here from their API documentation and we will give this target
43
language code as same so it's EN hyphen IN right and then we have a speaker you need to give speaker
44
so what is speaker so available speaker are like you know so they have different speaker with
45
different 30 plus speaker voices so suppose a male voice or a female voice or you know some
46
different accent you want natural sounding voice including you know different they keep it like
47
different person so I can choose for example this Aditya I can choose and I will basically
48
speak you can you know play around so they provide you of some amount of you know free
49
credits so with that you can play around and choose different speaker and you know see what
50
is the difference but I'm here to explain the concept so the model we are going to use we
51
already see like bull bull and they're saying version 3 I'm going with the latest one so that's
52
all we have got the TTS text-to-speech so I will basically capture it in one variable right and
53
then basically be so as for them it is basically a base 64 so I need to decode this base 64 back
54
to the audio response so and then basically this is something you know in real AI integration
55
this like API is often written audio in base 64 format instead of raw byte so we will basically
56
we need to learn how enterprise system decode this AI generated audio correctly into the raw
57
audio byte so we will understand and convert this so for that we have to use this base 64
58
class and for we need to import this package I think import base 64 right so we have this
59
base 64 class here and with this base 64 class we can you we can decode it base 64 dot B 60 is 64
60
decode and we have this TTS response dot or the audios and zero here right and we can capture it
61
in audio bytes somewhere like this we can capture and we can say that I want audio file equals to
62
chatbot response dot VAV right and then we can apply the loop like with context manager with
63
you know this audio file we have captured right as right and we want this as and then call it as
64
file and then I can write it this byte stream right into audio bytes what we need to capture
65
this audio byte so this audio bytes decoded right you know these are the raw form and I need to write
66
it to some file which is file this chatbot response dot WAV format so I would just say
67
you know I have printed after that I would say print F audio generated and the file is
68
this audio file all right so here we have captured it and this is what we need to do
69
convert this speech into audio file so let me run this and see generating AI voice response
70
audio generated so you can see it has created this chatbot underscore response dot WAV file
71
I will just play this so that you can also hear you know the big payment of rupees 5000 has been
72
completed successfully the amount will reflect in your account shortly thank you for banking with
73
us okay so you it has basically converted this text into this audio file and I have played this
74
audio file for you and it is how seamlessly and correctly it has basically converted this text
75
into audio file so this is how we can convert text to speech using sarvam.ai so in the next
76
lecture we will convert this audio back to the text and then perform the semantic validation
77
thank you so much

--- Speech To Text and Semantic Validation ---

1
Alright so in this lecture we will see another flow where we need to convert
2
the audio this audio back to you know to to text that is called speech to text
3
right so we will now go with this flow and I would just say print
4
I would say transcribing audio to response so suppose you know we have a
5
audio file we capture record it somewhere and now we want to transcribe
6
back into a text right so how we can do that so we have already have this client
7
dot now we have the speech to text function and we will use transcribe so
8
we have two options like we can do when I this this dot it can transcribe as
9
well as translate you can translate as well like audio to any other language
10
but I would go with transcribe for now and I would say file equals to you know
11
I can say open open this audio file in you know RB format alright and then so
12
model I will be using here they have this model called Saras RS comma v3 and
13
then mode I need to give here as transcribe because I need to perform the
14
transcribe operation alright so this is what I can I need to do and then I will
15
say std underscore response alright I got std dot response and then once I
16
got this std dot response I will say std dot response dot transcript right and
17
then I will capture this transcript in one variable and I can just print this
18
you know transcript and before that I can just like you know just to differentiate
19
I can write like this transcript ok and then so this will basically this should
20
convert this in this audio file into transcript and then we'll move to the
21
semantic validation so for that I would say like we have expected intent I need
22
right so expected intended like user payment was successful right that is the
23
intent forget about this number and also use user payment is successful and got
24
the confirmation confirmation was provided so that was the intent right so
25
I will be running the semantic validation here okay so this is okay
26
here I am running the semantic validation and I would say we will call
27
this we this is this one we have already saw in the previous lecture validate
28
cement semantics right so it's expect to variable the actual transcript and the
29
expected intent okay so it's complaining let me import it from semantic validator
30
import validate semantics so it's perfectly fine now and I would capture
31
the validation result in some variable validation result here okay and I can
32
print the result here a new line running semantic validation and then
33
sorry not running our semantic validation result that is already run
34
semantic validation result we have we can capture it and the validation result we
35
can print print validation result here this is simple and then we can add if you
36
want we can add assertion as well assert you know if it the response this
37
validation result has passed in validation result you can add your
38
assertion as well you have the LLM assertion but you can also add your
39
assertion in your test like this or you can go further and you know you can have
40
what we call it like you can have your pytest base assertions as well all right
41
so I think that is what we need to do and then I would say chatbot respond let
42
me add everything till this in a function so that you know that consider
43
this as a test function right so I will say def test voice AI underscore workflow
44
right so let me correct the indentation okay so now it is a test and then I can
45
basically use if underscore underscore name underscore underscore equals
46
underscore underscore main I can call this test voice workflow here okay
47
that's how we need to do so and I mean this is a SAT system require you know
48
audio files we have you know that we can first we converted text into audio and
49
you know then audio back to the text and then we are doing the semantic
50
validation here and then we are doing the assertion here so this lesson I hope
51
this should work now and let me run this so that you know see the result you
52
can see generating the AI voice response audio generated hello Pratik this is the
53
transcript hello Pratik your payment of rupees let's see whether it has this is
54
the correct or not hello Pratik your payment of rupees 5000 has been
55
completed successfully the amount will reflect in your account shortly thank
56
you for banking with us you can see the transcript this is perfectly matching
57
and the result is passed confidence 0.9 and region saying actual response
58
conveys successful payment and confirmation aligning with the expected
59
intent so we are able to successfully validate right the risk we are able to
60
convert the voice AI response back to the you know text as well as you know
61
convert the text back to the audio file and we are able to validate the semantic
62
validation so this is a kind of enterprise testing for voice and we are
63
able to test the you know multiple you know we are able to validate the intent
64
the semantically correct or not so this is a critical invoice AI testing right
65
you validate what we actually hear so we have we want so in a speech conversion
66
where we convert it into a transcribe like we want speech converted into text
67
in the same language so we validate that in the same language we can provide
68
multiple languages and we got the support right so we are validating not
69
exact word by word we are validating we are validating the business meaning so
70
this is the core mindset shift in the AI native QA validation that we
71
want to perform and you know we are able to test our system and we are able to
72
test the dynamic behavior of voice agents and how to test this voice
73
based agent using sermon API so I think we are able to build our voice AI
74
testing workflow using sermon AI and I think this is helpful for you thank you so much
